DRN-3932839
The complaint
Mr O complains that NewDay Ltd hasnt refunded the amount, he paid on his credit card for 
a faulty item.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr O used his credit card to order several items on an online marketplace, 
owned by a business (who Ill call A) the total transaction on his credit card was £745.73. 
One of these items was a game console ordered from a seller (who Ill call C), it cost 
£215.79. Mr O said the game console didnt work so he contacted C, who approved his 
refund.
Mr O returned the games console to C on 8 May 2021, but he didnt receive a refund. On 12 
August 2021 Mr O contacted NewDay to request a refund under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. NewDay said Mr O didnt have a valid section 75 claim because he 
purchased the console from C, but the credit card payment was made to A, so it didnt think 
the required debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement was in place. Unhappy with this 
outcome, Mr O complained to NewDay. It maintained its position and rejected his complaint.
 
Mr O brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator thought that even though Mr O 
hadnt requested a chargeback, NewDay should have raised one on his behalf. The 
investigator thought that if NewDay had done this, it was likely that the chargeback would 
have been successful. Because of this he didnt think it was necessary to consider whether 
Mr Os claim met the requirements for a section 75 claim. To put things right he said 
NewDay should refund Mr O the cost of the game console and rework his credit card 
account.
NewDay has not responded to the investigators recommendation, so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
When Mr O bought the games console, he also purchased a mobile phone which he 
returned and had difficulty getting a refund. He also asked NewDay to refund this 
transaction, but he has since confirmed the seller has refunded this item, so I will not be 
considering this transaction in this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
And our rules allow me to do this. This reflects the nature of our service as a free and 
informal alternative to the courts.
Generally, where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made on a credit card, the 
card provider can consider the dispute under two guises- chargeback and section 75 claim. 
Chargeback
Chargeback is a process by which disputes are resolved between the card issuer and 
merchant, under the relevant card scheme. The scheme isnt administered by NewDay, its 
administered by Mastercard, and they set the rules.
NewDay says it didnt consider Mr Os dispute under the chargeback rules as he didnt 
specifically request this when he raised his dispute. It also says Mr O had the option to raise 
this via his online banking platform but didnt.
Whilst I accept Mr O didnt specifically request NewDay raise a chargeback, not all 
consumers are aware of this option. And whilst there is no obligation that requires NewDay 
to submit a chargeback, this service considers it good practice for card providers to do this 
where the right to make a chargeback claim exists under the applicable scheme rules  and 
if there is a reasonable prospect of success.
So, Ive considered Mr Os dispute to see if I think a valid chargeback claim existed and 
whether I think the claim would have had a prospect of success. Under the relevant 
Mastercard scheme rules, Mr O had 120 days from the date of the transaction to raise a 
dispute. And I can see that Mr O got in touch with NewDay within this time-limit.
For a chargeback right to exist there must also be a valid reason code for the chargeback. 
Ive looked at Mastercards reason codes and I think NewDay couldve considered his claim 
under the credit not processed code. One of the conditions under this code is that the 
merchant agreed to the refund but didnt provide it. And I can see that Mr O had confirmed to 
NewDay that he returned the game console but had not received a refund and had also 
provided evidence to confirm the return had been approved. In the circumstances, I think 
that Mr O did have a valid chargeback claim.
Mr O has provided a copy of the postal return receipt, which indicates the game console was 
returned to the seller on 8 May 2021. Based on what Ive seen I think that if NewDay had 
raised a chargeback on Mr Os behalf it is likely that it would have succeeded, and Mr O 
would have had the transaction refunded. It is now clear that a chargeback is no longer 
available due to time limits. So, there is no opportunity to go down this avenue now. 
Because of this I think NewDay should now do something to put this right, and Ive set this 
out below.
NewDay declined Mr Os section 75 claim, because it says section 75 of the CCA says a 
consumer can recover money from their credit card provider paid under a contract with a 
supplier - but only in very specific circumstances. Thats when a payment is made under a 
debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. It doesnt think this applies here because C supplied 
the game console to Mr O, but the credit card payment was made to a third party, A. 
However, I dont think I need to consider whether the requirements of section 75 are met 
here, because Im already satisfied that it was unfair for NewDay not to raise a chargeback 
on Mr Os behalf.
Putting things right
Im satisfied on balance that had NewDay pursued a chargeback on Mr Os behalf, it would 
have been successful, in the circumstances I think it was unfair that NewDay didnt raise a 
chargeback. So, its my decision that NewDay should now refund Mr O £215.79 and rework 
his account as if this had been credited on 3 May 2021. And it should pay 8% simple interest per year on any credit balances on his account between then and when it settles this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint against NewDay Ltd and direct it to 
redress Mr O as Ive described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman