DRN-3334256
The complaint
Ms M has complained about the settlement she received for her written off car when she 
made a claim under her car insurance policy with esure Insurance Limited.
What happened
Ms M made a claim under her car insurance policy following an incident and as a result her 
car was deemed to be a total loss. So esure settled Ms Ms claim by paying a market value 
settlement for it. 
Ms M said the settlement wasnt fair and she wanted esure to pay more. esure said it had 
correctly reached its valuation for her car and so didnt increase the settlement.
Unhappy with esures response to her complaint, Ms M asked us to look at things for her. 
Our Investigator first thought esure had acted reasonably. He found the valuations esure had 
relied on when reaching a valuation was in line with his checks of the main motor trade 
guides. 
Ms M didnt agree. She said esures valuation wasnt based on the correct make, model and 
specification of her car. 
On further review with esure, the Investigator agreed that this was the case. And so he 
carried out a revised valuation check based on the correct make and model of Ms Ms car. 
Due to the age of the car, only one of the main motor trade guides was able to provide a 
valuation. This was for £911. 
As this was more than esure had paid Ms M, the Investigator recommended esure increase 
the valuation settlement to £911, paying interest on the difference at 8% a year simple 
interest. He also recommended esure pay Ms M £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused in failing to provide a valuation for the correct car. 
esure accepted the Investigators findings. Ms M didnt agree. She isnt satisfied with the 
increase in settlement and is unhappy about how long its taken to reach this point in her 
complaint.
esure issued payment to Ms M in line with the Investigators recommendations. The 
Investigator let esure know Ms M isnt satisfied with the view and wants an ombudsmans 
decision. esure has apologised for its error and agreed to cancel the cheque payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide a valuation. But we look at whether an insurer has reached its valuation 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Ms Ms policy with esure says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value 
of her car at the date of loss. It defines the term market value as:
the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on the open 
market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the value is 
based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and 
mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor 
trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not be the price you paid 
when you purchased the car.
We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. We find the main motor trade 
guides are generally reliable in establishing a valuation for a standard car. By standard I 
mean not a specialist or classic car. The guides are based on likely selling prices for the 
same make, model, specification, condition and mileage as Ms Ms car. 
Due to the age of Ms Ms car at the date of loss, not all of the main motor trade guides 
offered valuations. 
I agree with Ms M that the make and model of car esure relied on when valuing her car was 
incorrect. And so I think it didnt provide a fair valuation for her car. 
Having checked the remaining guide which did provide a valuation, this was for £911. This is 
based on the retail transacted price  so the price Ms M - or anyone - would expect to pay 
for a car similar to hers at a retail garage. 
Ms M says she believes her car is worth between £1,300 and £1,500. I havent seen any 
evidence to contradict the valuation of £911. Advertised prices can vary widely as they are 
the price a consumer or business sets for what they think the car is worth. And those prices 
tend to have a margin built in to allow for some negotiation on the final price.
So I think a fairer outcome is for esure to increase the valuation it paid of £800 to £911. And 
to put things right for the loss of funds for Ms M for this period, I think esure should pay 
interest on the difference at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date of the claim to 
the date it pays. 
I think esures error in providing a valuation based on the wrong car has caused Ms M 
inconvenience. I think that  even if esure had used the correct car in its valuation  Ms M 
would have still brought her complaint to us as she believes her car is worth much more. So 
I dont think esures error is the reason why Ms M brought her complaint to us. But I think 
esure should pay some compensation for the error it made. I therefore think £100 is a 
reasonable sum, taking everything into account. 
So Im upholding Ms Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
esure Insurance Limited to pay the difference to bring the total loss settlement for Ms Ms car 
to £911. 
esure should pay interest on the difference from the date of the claim to the date it pays Ms 
M at a rate of 8% simple interest a year. 
esure should pay Ms M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenient caused by 
failing to value the correct vehicle.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman