DRN-2040501
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Standard Life Assurance Limited hasnt made an agreed 
charges refund.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs T were unhappy with the service from Standard Life and moved their 
investments to another provider in February 2019. 
Standard Life agreed that some of its service couldve been better. It accepted it shouldve 
checked in August 2018 whether continued regular payments to Mr and Mrs Ts SIPP 
accounts (to cover ongoing adviser charges) were necessary while they were making a 
decision about their advisors. 
The investment from which the deductions were taken had dropped in value during the 
period in question. So Mr and Mrs T hadnt suffered any financial loss while the money was 
in their SIPP cash accounts. But as a gesture of goodwill Standard Life paid interest on the 
amounts deducted, which it rounded up to £150 in total.
As a further gesture of goodwill, Standard Life agree to waive ongoing adviser charges on 
Mr and Mrs Ts SIPP accounts for August, September and October 2018.
Mr and Mrs T complained that Standard Life had failed to properly evidence that the agreed 
refunds had been made.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She wasnt persuaded 
Mr and Mrs T had suffered any loss as result of the continued regular payments to their 
SIPP accounts. And she considered the interest paid by Standard Life was fair. 
The investigator was also satisfied that Standard Life hadnt taken ongoing adviser charges 
for August, September and October 2018.
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. They pointed out that 
Standard Lifes decision to waive charges wasnt made until April 2019. So they considered 
the charges for August, September and October 2018 must have been taken, but there was 
no evidence that theyd been refunded. 
They also said Standard Life hadnt refunded the regular payments that had been paid to the 
SIPP in error.
Mr and Mrs T asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that in August 2018 Mr and Mrs T were considering what to do about advisors 
on their pension investments. Standard Lifes notes record:
03/08/18  Mr T is not happy with the SLD service and changed to a Non Wrap adviser
27/09/18  He wasnt aware of the implications of the above decision and changed back to 
SLD.
Standard Life accepts that once it became aware Mr and Mrs T were considering their 
options, it shouldve checked whether continued regular payments to their SIPP accounts (to 
cover ongoing adviser charges) were necessary.
It didnt do this, and deductions continued to be made from an external investment for the 
period August 2018 to January 2019. Im satisfied that these are shown as credits to the 
SIPP cash accounts.
If Standard Life had checked the position, its likely the deductions from the other investment 
wouldnt have continued. So I can see why Mr and Mrs T might consider the amounts should 
be refunded to that investment. 
Usually, where the business has made this type of error, we would require Standard Life to 
put Mr and Mrs T into the position they wouldve been in if the deductions hadnt been made. 
Which means the amounts would have to be returned to the original investment, but 
adjusted to take account of any movements in value for that investment.
Standard Life has explained that the value of the investment has dropped during the period 
in question. So Mr and Mrs T arent any worse off as a result of the payments being made 
and retained in their SIPP cash accounts. 
Im also satisfied that the amounts were transferred to Mr and Mrs Ts new provider. Which 
means I dont consider its necessary for Standard Life to make a formal refund to Mr and 
Mrs Ts original investment.
Standard Life has also paid interest on the deducted amounts as a gesture of goodwill. I 
consider thats fair in the circumstances.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that it was fair for Standard Life to charge ongoing adviser 
fees on the SIPPs until July 2018. Even though Mr and Mrs Ts named contact was away on 
sick leave, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Standard Lifes service to Mr and Mrs T was 
interrupted, or that they couldnt access advice if theyd needed it.
I accept that Standard Life didnt agree to waive charges for August, September and October 
2018 until April 2019. So I can see why Mr and Mrs T might expect to see deductions for 
those months on the cash statements, together with corresponding refunds.
But Im satisfied that Standard Lifes statements show there were no ongoing charges made 
after July 2018. Standard Life has said that it reclaimed the charges for the months in 
question, and Im satisfied thats correct. I say this because there is nothing to suggest that 
the balances on the cash accounts are incorrect. Although the charges and refunds arent 
detailed on the statements, even if they were I consider the same balances would show.
I can see that actions taken by Standard Life to compensate Mr and Mrs T may not be 
immediately clear. But Im satisfied that the steps it has taken to rectify the errors are 
proportionate and fair. Im therefore satisfied that its resolution of Mr and Mrs Ts complaint 
is fair and reasonable.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman