DRN-4260455
The complaint
Mr G complains that Countrywide Principal Services Limited might have mis-sold a self-
certified interest only mortgage to him. He says it hasnt provided documents and information 
to him despite a number of requests. He says as a first step hed like a full copy of his 
mortgage file, including all correspondence, letters, forms, applications, decisions etc and 
any other information held about him.
What happened
Mr G took mortgage advice from Countrywide in 2006 and it recommended an interest only 
mortgage. Mr G says this mortgage might not have been suitable for him and might have 
been mis-sold. He says hes been worried about maintaining payments, and if hed taken out 
a repayment mortgage the balance would have reduced, hed have paid less interest and 
hed have been able to save money.
Mr G says he emailed Countrywide in mid-2022 asking it to provide his mortgage file and 
information it holds about him. He says he needs this to confirm he wasnt given appropriate 
advice. Mr G says Countrywide ignored him and then said it had no information about him.
Weve explained to Mr G that our rules dont allow us to look into his complaint about the 
advice given when he took out the mortgage. Thats because he raised this complaint in 
2022, which is more than six years after the advice was given and more than three years 
after Mr G ought reasonably to have been aware he had a problem. Therefore, this part of 
Mr Gs complaint was brought to us outside our time limits.
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint that Countrywide didnt respond to requests for 
a copy of his mortgage file in mid-2022. Countrywide said it no longer held any information 
about Mr Gs mortgage, due to the time that had passed. Our investigator said Countrywide 
has a data retention and destruction policy, and due to the amount of time passed, it cant 
now provide Mr Gs mortgage file. She said it should pay £100 for the upset caused by not 
responding to his emails. 
Countrywide agreed. Mr G didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman re-consider the 
matter. Mr G says Countrywide must have some information about him  such as the recent 
emails between Countrywide and this service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G sent emails to Countrywide in May, July and August 2022 asking for a copy of his 
mortgage file. He didnt receive a response and a complaint was raised. Countrywide sent a 
final response in December 2022, saying it had no record of having advised Mr G. Our 
investigator provided copies of letters sent by Countrywide to Mr G in 2006 and 2007, and it 
checked its records again.
Countrywide has a data retention and destruction policy. It says in most cases it holds 
information of this kind for seven years. 15 years have passed since Countrywide gave Mr G 
mortgage advice and they were last in contact. Countrywide says it no longer holds 
information related to the advice given to Mr G when he took out his mortgage. 
Countrywide doesnt have records relating to the mortgage advice given in 2006 so it doesnt 
have anything to provide to Mr G. While this must be disappointing for Mr G, this isnt due to 
any error by Countrywide. 
Mr G says Countrywide must have records, such as its recent emails with this service. That 
wasnt what Mr G asked for in mid-2022. Whether Countrywide should provide copies of 
correspondence sent after Mr G made a complaint wasnt part of the complaint he brought to 
us. This mean this isnt something I can look into here.
Where Countrywide did make an error was in not responding promptly to Mr Gs emails 
asking for his mortgage file. This wouldnt have made a difference to the outcome, in that it 
would still have been unable to provide information to Mr G related to the mortgage advice 
given in 2006. But in order to get a response, Mr G had to email Countrywide several times 
and bring his complaint to this service. In the circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable 
to require Countrywide to pay £100 to Mr G for the upset and inconvenience this caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Countrywide Principal Services Limited 
to pay £100 to Mr G. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman