DRN-2618961
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about the way British Gas Insurance Limited handled a claim they 
made on their home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
In summer 2020, Mr T and Mrs T contacted British Gas, as their boiler had stopped 
supplying hot water. An engineer attended and Mr and Mrs T say the engineer told them the 
part that needed to be replaced was no longer available given the boilers age, which was 
about 20 years. The engineer said the boiler would have to be replaced, which they did at 
their own cost.
Around a month later a different British Gas engineer attended their home for a separate 
issue. Mr and Mrs T say they mentioned the boiler replacement and this engineer said the 
part that was needed to repair the old boiler was still available. He recommended they 
complain to British Gas. 
Mr and Mrs T complained; they said had it not been for the poor advice, they wouldnt have 
needed to replace the boiler. British Gas didnt respond to Mr and Mrs Ts complaint in time, 
so they brought it to our service.
Our investigator didnt think British Gas had acted unfairly. She said it had previously told Mr 
and Mrs T that their boiler was no longer made, but it would continue to keep it going for as 
long as possible. She didnt think the comments of the second engineer were enough to say 
the first one should have carried out a repair. She noted the boiler was over 20 years old and 
so thought British Gas had acted in line with its policy terms by not offering a contribution 
towards the replacement.
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree. They said the age of the boiler was irrelevant. They said the first 
engineer told them a valve couldnt be sourced, but the second engineer showed them this 
was readily available. 
As Mr and Mrs T didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
Ive already told British Gas that I think its acted unfairly. Ive said that its not clear which 
part of the boiler needed replacing, and British Gas hasnt been able to evidence that the 
part couldnt be sourced. Mr and Mrs Ts testimony is that they were told a valve needed 
replacing. The job sheet they were provided by the first engineer doesnt have any detail on 
what part cant be replaced, and the only thing British Gas can see from its system is a note 
saying multiple component failure. 
Ive said I was minded to find Mr and Mrs Ts testimony persuasive about what they were 
told by the engineers, and in the absence of evidence from British Gas, I was minded to say 
it should compensate Mr and Mrs T for replacing their boiler before they needed to. I said I 
thought it should pay the cost of the replacement part - £156, as well as £200 compensation 
for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused with them having to replace their 
boiler sooner than was necessary. 
British Gas didnt accept. It said the engineer would have only noted there was multiple 
component failure if more than one part couldnt be replaced, so it didnt agree to 
compensate Mr and Mrs T.
Mr and Mrs T agreed with my proposed outcome. But noted that British Gas other 
customers may also receive the same treatment from British Gas and not be in a position to 
take things forward.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas hasnt been able to provide any evidence which shows which part of the boiler 
wasnt working and that it couldnt be replaced.
Mr and Mrs T have given a consistent and persuasive account of what happened. They say 
the first engineers visit was very quick; he told them a valve wasnt working and couldnt be 
replaced but didnt seem to use anything to check this. They say the second engineer told 
them he could check whether parts were available on a tablet. When they told him what the 
first engineer had said, the second engineer showed them that part was available. This 
engineer then recommended Mr and Mrs T complain to British Gas about what theyd been 
told as he felt their boiler could have been replaced. This engineer filled in a customer form 
to reflect this. 
Whilst British Gas says its system has recorded multiple component failure, this isnt 
supported by the customer form the first engineer provided to Mr and Mrs T at the first visit. 
This document has a section for engineers comments. This is blank. There is a check box 
that says all functional parts available and no has been ticked. But there isnt anything on 
this form which confirms what the issue was, and what couldnt be replaced. And British Gas 
cant say what components they were. So on balance Im more persuaded by what Mr and 
Mrs T have told us. They have carried out their own research on the part they were told 
needed replacing  Im satisfied on balance that this is what they were told by the engineer. 
And British Gas comments havent made me change my mind on this. 
Im satisfied based on what Ive seen that its more likely the boiler could have been 
repaired. So British Gas failure to do so has meant Mr and Mrs T have replaced their boiler 
sooner than they would have done.
British Gas has argued that because of the age of the boiler, it shouldnt have to pay 
anything, as it says it had told Mr and Mrs T the boiler would need replacing at some stage. I 
accept that is the case. But as British Gas still agreed to insure the boiler knowing the age, it 
still needed to carry out a lasting and effective repair where it could do so, irrespective of the 
age of the boiler. 
Under Mr and Mrs Ts policy, British Gas wouldnt have made a contribution to any boiler 
replacement, so Im not going to ask British Gas to refund what it cost Mr and Mrs T to 
replace the boiler. I say this because I accept the boiler would likely have needed to be 
replaced at some point in the near future. I say this because it was over twenty years old and 
many of the parts needed to repair it were becoming obsolete, which Mr and Mrs T were 
aware of. 
But British Gas needs to pay Mr and Mrs T the likely outlay it would have had on the claim, 
had it carried out the repair it should have. The only evidence I have is from Mr and Mrs T, 
they say they could buy the valve needed for £154 (once VAT was removed). So British Gas 
needs to pay this amount to Mr and Mrs T.
When the boiler broke, Mr and Mrs T were left without hot water and so had to replace their 
boiler quickly. They had to go through the effort of replacing the boiler unnecessarily  
including spending money they wouldnt have otherwise needed to in the immediate future. 
So to put things right British Gas should pay £200 compensation to reflect the unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience it has caused Mr and Mrs T. Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ts point about British Gas behaviour and how it could impact other 
customers. I would like to reassure them that the rules from the industry regulator set out 
that firms have a duty to learn from ombudsman decisions. 
I note Mr and Mrs T have had further issues with British Gas relating to their renewal quote. 
Whilst this doesnt form part of the complaint I have investigated; Mr and Mrs T can raise a 
further complaint with this service if needed.
My final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited needs to pay Mr and Mrs T a total of 
£356 to resolve the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman