DRN-3448209
The complaint
Mr R complains that his credit score has been impacted as a result of information reported to 
the credit reference agencies by Nationwide Building Society.
What happened
Mr R raised a section 75 claim with Nationwide in relation to goods purchased from a 
supplier which were returned because they were faulty. The section 75 claim was resolved in 
Mr Rs favour.
Following this, Mr R discovered that his credit rating had been lowered. He complained to 
Nationwide who advised him that it would report a section 75 claim to the credit reference 
agencies because the balance of the account was in dispute, and that it looked as if this is 
what the credit reference agencies were reporting,. Nationwide said that if the credit 
reference agency had chosen to lower Mr Rs credit rating, this wasnt a decision over which 
it had any control and it couldnt request for it to be amended because it hadnt made an 
error. Nationwide acknowledged that it had taken them a long time to respond to Mr Rs 
complaint and offered compensation of £100.
Mr R remained unhappy and complained to this service. He says that Nationwide passed his 
information to the credit reference agencies which adversely affected his credit score and 
hes unhappy that Nationwide wont tell him what information it reported. Hes also unhappy 
about the way in which Nationwide handled his complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Nationwide had an obligation to 
report accurate information to the credit reference agencies and that it had acted fairly in 
reporting the information relating to the section 75 claim. The investigator said he couldnt 
hold Nationwide responsible for the way in which the credit reference agencies interpreted 
information which is reported to them.
Mr R didnt agree. He said he could understand why information relating to the section 75 
claim might have been reported to the credit reference agencies whilst the section 75 claim 
was ongoing, but he felt that once the claim had been resolved, the entry on his credit file 
should have been removed. Mr R also said hed been told by Nationwide that the making of 
a section 75 claim shouldnt result in a credit score being downgraded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Rs credit file from one of the two main credit reference agencies. I can see 
that a Q status was reported in relation to his Nationwide account in June 2021.
Where a Q appears on a credit report, this stands for query and is used when an account 
is under review, usually due to a query between the consumer and the credit provider 
regarding the account.
Ive considered whether Nationwide acted fairly when it reported information to the credit 
reference agencies.
I can see that Mr R had a disputed transaction claim under section 75 on his account and 
that Nationwide was investigating the claim in June 2021. This is likely to explain the reason 
for the Q being reported.
Nationwide is under an obligation to report information to the credit reference agencies. This 
would include information relating to a section 75 claim which is a disputed transaction on 
the account. So I dont think Nationwide has done anything wrong by reporting this 
information to the credit reference agencies.
I appreciate that Mr R is unhappy that his credit score has been affected. Hes said that this 
is because of the information reported by Nationwide. Whilst I can see that Mr Rs credit 
score has fallen, I cant be certain that the reason for this is because of the information 
reported by Nationwide. Mr R has said that the credit reference agency has told him that he 
has a credit agreement where he has missed at least one payment on or which has reported 
another negative status. But I havent seen any information which directly links the 
information reported by Nationwide to Mr Rs reduced credit score.
Mr R has said that he cant think of anything else which would adversely affect his credit 
score. Generally a Q shouldnt impact on a credit file. But it depends on how the credit 
reference agency has interpreted the information which is reported. The way in which a 
credit reference agency interpret information isnt something that Nationwide has any control 
over. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im unable to say that Nationwide has made an error, or acted 
unfairly by reporting information to the credit reference agencies.
I appreciate that Mr R wants his credit rating restored. As Ive said, I cant be certain of what 
has affected the credit score. But whatever the information is that has had an adverse 
impact, the only way that this can be challenged and amended is by contacting the credit 
reference agency directly.
In relation to Mr Rs dissatisfaction with the way in which his complaint was handled by 
Nationwide, I agree that the length of time it took Nationwide to respond would have caused 
Mr R a significant degree of frustration. I think its right that Nationwide pay compensation 
and Im satisfied that the current offer of £100 is fair and in line with what this service would 
award.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im unable to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman