DRN-1197423
The complaint
Ms S complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt provide her with any information about a 
data breach  causing her stress and inconvenience when she received a text and then a 
new card.
What happened
In July 2019 Barclays contacted Ms S via email and text message to tell her that her card 
was going to be blocked and reissued. She also received a new card. Ms S didnt 
understand why  so she asked the bank to explain. 
Ms S was told that a list of card numbers (including hers) had been involved in a data breach 
 meaning they could have been at risk of fraudulent use. Ms S complained as she was 
upset by this and the lack of information shared by the bank about the breach. 
A week later Ms S contacted Barclays again to enquire about her complaint. The bank said 
that owing to the sensitivity of the information they werent able to provide Ms S with specific 
details of the data breach. They compensated Ms S £100 to acknowledge any upset and 
inconvenience this had caused her. Ms S wasnt happy with the level of compensation 
offered - her complaint was reviewed - and bank increased the compensation to £150, and 
paid this into Ms Ss account.  
Ms S wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred her complaint to us. She said she 
didnt feel the level of compensation reflected the level of upset and stress this had caused 
her. Ms S had called the bank numerous times  being put through to a number of 
departments. She didnt feel the banks staff had been helpful. 
Our investigators view was that Barclays had done enough in the circumstances  saying 
that Ms Ss complaint shouldnt be upheld for the same reasons given by the bank. 
Ms S didnt agree with the investigator, so her complaint was given to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I think its essential for me to be clear from the outset - the security of Ms Ss account is 
paramount here. And while I can understand that receiving an unexpected message from the 
bank - and then a new card - may have upset Ms S. Im satisfied the bank have done 
nothing wrong and the compensation is enough to reflect the stress and inconvenience 
caused to Ms S. I dont intend to ask Barclays to do anything further. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of the account are clear in as much as Barclays will contact the 
account holder should the need arise - which they did in this case. They say Well let you know if theres a fraud or security risk to your account by sending you a secure message, 
emailing, writing or calling you.
The terms and conditions also allow for a replacement card to be sent out at any time. 
Again, when the need arose - the bank became aware that Ms Ss card had possibly been 
compromised and sent out the new card. 
I can see the investigator has explained why a bank isnt able to give specific details about a 
data breach. No matter how much Ms S wants to know. The bank arent able (or obliged) to 
tell her anything beyond what shes already been told. This is to preserve a level of security, 
and possibly the integrity of any ongoing investigation. It could be the bank simply dont have 
the specific details as they may have received the information from a third party  which I 
believe is the case here. So, the bank are only able to contact the card holder to advise that 
the card has been put at risk  which they did.
Having listened to the calls from Ms S, I appreciate how strongly she feels about the matter, 
and the level of upset this has caused her. But I havent seen any evidence to persuade me 
that the bank have done anything wrong - or anything to suggest I should expect the bank to 
compensate Ms S further. In the circumstances Im satisfied with the actions the bank took. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have outlined, Im satisfied that Barclays Bank UK Plc dont need to do 
more than it already has to resolve Ms Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Sarah Watts
Ombudsman