DRN-3594758
The complaint
Mr K complains that U Drive Cover Ltd (U Drive) increased the premium for his motor 
insurance policy, after he had paid the premium because it couldnt fully validate his address 
and wouldnt accept his no claims bonus.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr K applied for motor insurance using an online comparison website. U 
Drive checked the details he provided and found some discrepancies. 
U Drive says Mr K wouldnt be commuting as he worked from home, so this was removed. It 
says the insurer wouldnt accept Mr Ks one years no claims bonus (NCB) as hed only had a 
full UK licence for two months. It also says its address validation only gave a 60% match for 
Mr K, which the insurer wouldnt accept.
U Drive says it searched for alternative cover. It found an insurer willing to do this, but it cost 
around £400 more. Mr K says he was given a short period to decide whether to accept this 
insurance cover, which made him feel under pressure. He chose not to accept it. Mr K 
doesnt understand why his no claims bonus wasnt accepted or why his address couldnt be 
validated. He says he has lived at this address since August 2020 and is on the electoral 
register.  
U Drive says the premium was refunded in full, but Mr K says he lost money as he used an 
international credit card to pay. He referred the matter to our service, but our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. She thought it was reasonable that U Drive should attempt to 
validate the information Mr K provided. Although this meant the chosen insurer wouldnt 
provide cover based on the address validation check and didnt accept the no claims period. 
Our investigator says U Drive had showed the full refund had been paid. The difference Mr K 
highlighted was likely to be due to a change in exchange rates. Mr K wasnt satisfied with 
this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him, but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair.
U Drive says that when it received the quote Mr K had obtained via the comparison website 
it followed its process, which is to check the information provided. It says this is done for 
every customer to ensure the information is accurate. In Mr Ks case it found some 
discrepancies. It says he didnt need to use his car to commute and the insurer he had been 
placed with wouldnt accept one years NCB as Mr K had only held a full UK licence for two 
months.  
U Drive says it ran a validation check for Mr K at his address. It says this relies on a number 
of different sources of information to be able to identify whether the customer can be 
matched to the risk address and to what degree of certainty. It says this came back with a 
60% match, which the insurer Mr K had received a quote from, wasnt willing to accept. 
I acknowledge Mr Ks concerns that he says he has been resident at this address since 
August 2020 and that this is recorded on the electoral register. I understand that this was a 
source of frustration for him and he has questioned why U Drive wasnt able to validate him 
as being resident at this address. 
I asked U Drive if it could provide more detail as to why the check came back with a 60% 
result given Mr Ks account that he had been resident at the same address since August 
2020. It responded to say that the electoral roll is one factor that is checked along with a 
number of others. This can include utilities, credit scoring, credit searches, the council 
register, as well as a number of further sources of information. It says the more links the 
customer has to the address the higher the level of confidence that they reside at the 
address given.  
Im satisfied that U Drives shown it followed the process it would for any of its customers 
when checking information and validating the risk address. I dont think its unreasonable for 
these checks to be performed. The factors involved in matching the customer with the 
address arent something this service can dictate to U Drive. This is a commercial decision 
for it to make. Its unfortunate that the chosen insurer wouldnt offer cover based on a 60% 
validation result. But again, this isnt something this service is able to influence. 
U Drive says it was able to offer cover with another insurer that would accept the address 
validation result. But based on this and the fact Mr K didnt have an NCB relating to a full UK 
licence, the premium was higher. 
I asked U Drive what criteria it followed when establishing a valid NCB, and whether a bonus 
obtained whilst driving under an international licence could be accepted in any 
circumstances. It responded to say that some of the insurers it works with only allow an NCB 
discount when this is earned on a full UK licence. It confirms this was the case with the 
insurer Mr K initially received a quote from. U Drive says the alternative insurer wouldnt 
accept the NCB earned on an international licence either. It says although alternative cover 
was offered it was more expensive because of this.       
I acknowledge Mr K was unhappy with the increased premium, and that he felt pressured to 
accept the revised quote with a new insurer. But I think U Drive acted reasonably to validate 
the information he had provided and ensure he was offered the correct cover. Its generally 
accepted that insurance quotes are time limited before a new quote must be produced. 
Although I understand Mr K was upset by this, I dont think U Drive treated him unfairly. 
I can see that Mr K received a full refund of the payment he had made. U Drive says it 
removed the £75 cancellation fee that would usually apply as a gesture of goodwill. In the 
circumstances I think this is fair. 
I have thought about Mr Ks comments that he paid the premium using an Indian credit card. 
When he received the premium refund, it worked out less than he had paid. I dont dispute 
what Mr K says  but Im satisfied U Drive refunded the payment to the card he provided 
payment with and for the full amount. It may be that Mr K has lost out due to fluctuations in 
currency exchange rates. But I dont think this is something U Drive is responsible for.  In summary, Im satisfied that U Drive treated Mr K fairly when handling his application, and 
when refunding his premium and waiving the cancellation fee when he decided not to 
continue with the alternative cover. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman