DRN-1387787
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) wouldn't renew his home 
insurance policy after discovering a previous flood claim. 
What happened
In 2017 Mr S took out a home insurance policy with RSA via a price comparison website. As 
part of his application he provided details of a previous flood issue at his property. The 
policy renewed on the same terms the following year. 
Before the 2019 renewal, Mr S contacted RSA to make some changes to his policy. At that 
point it became apparent RSA didn't know about the previous claim for flood damage Mr S 
made. It thinks there was an error with the price comparison website which didn't 
pass through the details Mr S disclosed when initially obtaining a quote. 
RSA said if it had known about this claim it wouldnt have offered a policy to Mr S because it 
doesn't accept the risk of a property that has been previously affected by flooding. It gave Mr 
S two weeks notice that it wouldn't be issuing a renewal. And it offered £50 compensation for 
the inconvenience he'd been caused. 
Mr S did obtain cover elsewhere but for a higher premium. He says RSA should refund the 
difference in price as hes in this situation due to its error. Hes also concerned that hell have 
to declare a refused policy going forward which will have an impact on his premiums and his 
ability to get insurance.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He noted RSA had said it would have covered 
any claim Mr S made in line with the terms of the policy he had. He thought it likely Mr S paid 
less for that policy than if the flood claim had been recorded. And RSA confirmed Mr S 
doesn't have to declare a declined policy. He thought the £50 compensation it had offered 
was fair. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said he had now obtained insurance going forward at a similar price to 
what RSA previously offered. But he wants the difference he had to pay for his 2019 policy 
which was around £200. He also doesnt believe £50 is enough to recognise the trouble and 
upset hes been caused. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute Mr S disclosed the details of his previous flood claim on the price 
comparison website. But as RSA didn't know about this it produced a quote to insure Mr Ss 
property on the basis of the information it was given. 
However, it's accepted that prior to the policy renewing the following year it should have 
explained to Mr S that it doesn't accept the risk of flood affected properties at all. And the policy shouldn't have been renewed. In fact that only came to light at the 2019 renewal when 
it did tell Mr S it couldn't insure him anymore and offered £50 compensation. 
I accept that should have been made clear to Mr S when he applied for the policy in 2017. 
However, it's not clear that's RSA's fault because it says the information about the flood 
claim wasn't disclosed to it because of an error by the price comparison website. 
Even if that's wrong I don't think Mr S has lost out as a result. Mr S says RSA 'poached' him 
from his previous insurer and that if it hadn't offered him a policy he'd have remained with 
them and could have obtained loyalty discounts and no claims bonuses. But I havent seen 
anything to show this wouldve been the case. Mr S actively sought out alternative cover 
through a price comparison site and told us the reason he moved to RSA was because its 
quote was cheaper than his previous insurer. So I think it's clear Mr S didn't have any loyalty 
discounts at that time which were as good as the new business quote he was offered by 
RSA. And ultimately it was his decision to go ahead with RSA rather than staying with his old 
insurer. I also note he's now been able to return to his previous insurers at a similar price to 
the RSA policy. 
I do appreciate Mr S then paid more for an alternative policy once RSA said it would no 
longer cover him. However, Mr S has also told us that he asked a broker about this who 
said a lot of insurers had made the decision to increase premiums for properties affected by 
flood, or decline to cover flood affected properties completely, following severe flooding in 
2018. That suggests Mr S didn't have to pay more because of anything RSA got wrong; in 
fact it seems probable there would have been a price increase here regardless of 
whether RSA insured Mr S in 2017 or not. In fact Mr S may have made a saving during his 
time on cover with RSA because the premium he was paying didn't take account of the risk 
of the previous flood claim (and RSA has said it would have provided cover in the event he 
needed to make a claim). 
I accept Mr S was then caused some inconvenience in having to obtain alternative cover 
once RSA told him it wouldn't be renewing his policy. But I think it gave him reasonable 
notice of its decision which provided him enough time to research the market for an 
alternative provider. And I think the compensation RSA has already offered does enough to 
recognise any unnecessary trouble and upset Mr S was caused by what it got wrong.  
My final decision
I've decided not to uphold this complaint because I think Royal Sun Alliance has already 
done enough to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2020.
James Park
Ombudsman