DRN-3333924
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the customer service she received from Barclays Bank UK Plc, when 
attempting to contact it about fraud on her bank account.
What happened
On 17 May 2021 Mrs C was unfortunately a victim of a scam. On realising this, Mrs C has 
explained she was incredibly worried, and sought to contact Barclays to deal with the 
situation. She went onto Barclays website to find the right phone number to call, but was 
struggling to take in the words and numbers online, because of the state of panic she was in. 
Mrs C said she found different numbers on the website, which noted they were for different 
areas of fraud. 
Mrs C said there were a couple of times initially where she phoned one of the numbers and 
hung up shortly after. But when she called back again (on a different number) it took around 
45 minutes to get through to speak to an advisor. Mrs C said this advisor was helpful, 
blocked her mobile banking application for her, and reported the fraud. Mrs C said the 
advisor noted she would need to put her through to the fraud team and sat and waited with 
Mrs C whilst trying to put her through to that team. But after a while, because they still hadnt 
got through to the team, the advisor gave Mrs C the direct number for them, to call them 
instead.
After just over 1 hour 40 Mrs C then got through to the fraud team, who explained there were 
problems with Barclays system so there wasnt more that could be done at that time. Mrs C 
called back a few more times, and on getting through to someone after holding for another 
48 minutes, was told there was only a certain amount that could be done on the case at that 
time, because of system issues, other than checking that another phone number hadnt been 
added to her banking application.
The following day, Barclays sent Mrs C a letter, letting her know it was looking into her report 
of fraud, and had credited her account with the £1,000 that had been taken from her 
account. It said this was a temporary measure at first and may need to be debited if no fraud 
was fraud.
On 19 May 2021 Barclays wrote to Mrs C again, noting that it had concluded there had been 
fraudulent activity and she was able to keep the £1,000 it had placed in her account. 
Mrs C complained to Barclays. She said the customer service shed received had been poor. 
Mrs C explained how upsetting and worrying the situation had been for her  and that 
waiting for around 3.5 hours to speak to someone had caused her panic and anxiety. Mrs C 
said that following this she had unfortunately suffered with panic attacks  and she 
considered this was as a result of Barclays not answering her call and dealing with the 
situation quickly enough.
Barclays considered the matter and agreed that waiting the 3.5 hours would have been 
distressing and worrying. And so, it offered Mrs C £100 compensation. Mrs C remained 
dissatisfied with Barclays response. So, she referred her complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and felt the £100 Barclays had offered to Mrs C 
was reasonable in the circumstances. She felt this fairly recognised the trouble and upset 
caused to Mrs C. 
Mrs C disagreed. She said the experience had been awful, and Barclays making her wait 
that length of time had repercussions on her ever since, in terms of her mental health. She 
highlighted that she had needed to take time away from work unwell as a result, and she felt 
Barclays should receive a financial penalty for what it had put her through, and learn from 
what she had experienced. Mrs C also felt that Barclays had an obligation to provide her with 
information, such as recognised mental health organisations she could go to  but it hadnt 
done that.
Mrs C said that Barclays had put a note on her file in reference to her vulnerable state, but 
this hadnt helped when she called it back about another issue, as the advisor didnt read it 
on the file at first.  
Because Mrs C didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied the £100 Barclays has offered to Mrs C is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. So, Im not requiring it to do anything more than this.
I do understand this will come as a disappointment to Mrs C. Its clear from the information 
she has provided that she feels very strongly about the matter, and about the impact its had 
on her. Ive explained the reason Im satisfied £100 is fair and the circumstances below. 
Neither party has disputed that Mrs C was on hold for long periods of time trying to get 
through to Barclays, and that there were system errors involved with the time taking to 
respond to Mrs C. So, I havent needed to consider that here. Barclays has recognised this 
was the case.
So, what Ive needed to consider is whether Barclays had acted fairly and reasonably in 
putting this issue right for Mrs C. 
In terms of the fraud on the account  I think Barclays did act promptly. Overall, it took 48 
hours for Barclays to investigate the matter and confirm the fraud. And it took 24 hours to 
provide Mrs C with a return in the funds taken from her account on a temporary basis  
which was made permanent shortly after. So, Im satisfied Barclays moved swiftly here, and 
Mrs Cs account was returned to the position it was in before the fraud  so she hasnt 
suffered a financial loss.
Mrs C has said that 3.5 hours of waiting to speak to Barclays was too long and referred to 
the impact this has had on her. So, Ive thought carefully about this.
I agree that Mrs C had to wait a long time to speak to the fraud team. And I do think its fair 
for Mrs C to be compensated for the inconvenience, trouble and upset these additional hours 
of waiting, worry, and upset caused to her. If Mrs C had been able to talk to someone fully 
about the matter more efficiently, she may have felt more reassured about the situation she 
found herself in. As I think its fair for Mrs C to be compensated for the issue she experienced, Ive thought 
about what I consider to be fair compensation in the circumstances. This means considering 
whether the £100 Barclays has already offered is fair. And I do think this is a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation in this circumstance. I think this fair recognises that the 
long wait time caused Mrs C anxiety, trouble and upset. And it apologises for this being the 
case. So, I dont require Barclays to do anything more.
I do appreciate Mrs C has said that 3.5 hours of waiting has had a lasting impact on her  
and that as a result she feels more reasonable compensation would be in the region of 
£10,000. But I need to think about what is proportionate in the circumstances. 
And I dont think its proportionate to hold Barclays accountable to this degree. Whilst Mrs C 
didnt speak to the fraud team for around 3.5 hours, she did speak to an advisor in Barclays 
within 48 minutes of waiting  so it wasnt that no action was taken for all of this time. The 
first person Mrs C spoke to did report the fraud, and blocked her mobile application. So, 
Barclays did take some steps within the hour to reassure Mrs C and move the matter 
forward.
And there was also going to be an element of trouble, upset and panic on realising that a 
fraud had occurred, and whilst waiting for this issue to be sorted. And I dont hold Barclays 
accountable for that.
Mrs C has mentioned that shed like Barclays to receive a financial penalty and learn from 
what happened here. Its important to highlight that this service is not here to punish either 
party and regulate how a bank does things  were arent the regulator of the financial 
services industry. Rather, were an alternative dispute resolution service, considering 
individual complaints, and what we consider to be a fair and reasonable resolution, if any, for 
individuals in each case. And as mentioned above, in this case Im satisfied the £100 offered 
to Mrs C is fair. 
Mrs C has said that Barclays should have provided her with information about where she 
could go to seek help with her mental health  particularly as she feels it was the cause of 
difficulties she is now experiencing. But its not for me to tell Barclays what information it 
should give to customers about this, given the above. 
Mrs C has also raised that shes unhappy with how Barclays handled a further query she 
made about another transaction, and that the note put on file about Mrs Cs circumstances 
was not considered at first. This is a separate incident, and complaint, to the initial one 
raised. And so, if Mrs C wants to complain about this, shell need to do so with Barclays in 
the first instance.
My final decision
Given the above, Im satisfied that the offer of £100 Barclays Bank UK Plc has made is fair in 
the circumstances.  And so, Im not upholding this complaint, and dont require it to do 
anything more than this. If Barclays hasnt already done so, it should now provide Mrs C with 
this £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman