DRN-2716572
The complaint
Mr H complains that QBE UK Limited (QBE) has not priced his professional indemnity 
insurance policy fairly and has refused to give him a refund of premiums.
What happened
Mr H is a doctor by profession. He holds a medical malpractice liability policy with QBE. On 
1 April 2019 the UK Government introduced its clinical negligence scheme for GPs 
(CNSGP) that would provide indemnity cover for any future NHS clinical negligence claims. 
However, the government scheme did not include cover for any historic claims from before 
the scheme came into force, so Mr H had to continue paying QBE for retrospective run-off 
cover to indemnify him for any work completed up until April 2019. 
Mr H is unhappy with the duration and price he is having to pay for his run-off cover. His 
points of complaint include, but are not strictly limited to:
QBE refused to offer run-off cover or a quote for a five-year policy and would only 
offer cover on an annual basis, at which point the premiums could change. He feels 
the insurer is in a position of monopoly over him and could arbitrarily change the 
price each year.
QBE has failed to provide a pro-rata refund for the seven months cover he paid for 
between 1 April 2019 (when the government scheme was introduced and QBE were 
no longer having to cover any future risk) and the end of the subscription year on 
31 October 2019.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, as she was satisfied that QBE had factored in 
the CNSGP into its pricing, and she didnt think it had acted unfairly by only offering run-off 
cover on an annual, rather than a five-year basis. Mr H disagreed, so the matter has been 
escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons. 
QBE has refused to provide Mr H with a quotation for a full five-year period of run-off cover 
and will only provide an annual quote for the run-off period. It has said that it doesnt think it 
would be appropriate to offer a five-year quotation when the scope of cover thats required 
may change during the run-off period, which is why it now only offers annual quotations. I 
consider its position on this to be a legitimate exercise of its commercial judgment, and its 
reasons for offering cover on an annual instead of a longer-term basis do not seem unfair or 
unreasonable in the circumstances. So I do not consider it has treated Mr H unfairly in this 
regard. 
Mr H says that QBE haa failed to offer him a pro-rata refund for the period of 1 April 2019 to 
31 October 2019, even though the insurer effectively had reduced exposure to any risk 
following the introduction of the CNSGP in April that year. QBE has explained that the 
government scheme was factored into its pricing matrix and the premiums Mr H was 
charged. It has also shown that a lower premium was in fact charged in 2019 after the 
scheme was introduced, compared to the amount he was charged in 2018. So, Im satisfied 
that the introduction of the CNSGP was factored in to its pricing matrix and applied to the 
premium Mr H was charged. QBE maintains that the premium charged reflected its true risk 
exposure and Ive seen nothing that would suggest otherwise. I appreciate that QBEs 
exposure for any claims after April 2019 wouldve ceased following the introduction of the 
government scheme. But it does not serve to reduce its exposure for any potential historic 
claims that could be made, with a date of occurrence that pre-dates the government 
scheme. So, Im not satisfied there would be any fair or reasonable basis for a pro-rata 
refund in these circumstances. 
Mr H is also unhappy because he has drawn comparisons in his cover with one of his retired 
colleagues (Mr L, who has consented to his details being considered under this complaint). 
Mr L was given free run-off cover by QBE because he had no claims made against him in 
the past 15 years, which Mr H says applies equally to him. Mr H says that, provided Mr Ls 
circumstances dont change, he will not have to pay anything further for his run off cover, yet 
he will be charged a premium each year. QBE has explained that it offered free run off cover 
for doctors who had retired from practice, so long as theyd made no claims in the past five 
years. However, it has said the policy is still renewable annually, and that Mr L is required to 
confirm his status with the insurer each year. He hasnt been offered free run-off cover in 
perpetuity, and this could cease if a claim were subsequently made, for example.
I appreciate there are differences in the way cover has been offered to both Mr H and Mr L, 
despite both doctors having not made any claims in the past five years. However, Mr L is 
retired, and QBE has explained that the free run-off cover for retired GPs was offered by 
Towergate when they set up the original facility over 20 years ago. QBE said it had agreed 
to these terms during the initial period in the early 2000s when writing the binder. And when 
it wrote the binder again in 2009, it agreed to continue honoring this free run-off in 
retirement promise. However, QBE has clarified that this was only available for existing 
Towergate clients, and that the binder was not available for newer clients or those that 
obtained their indemnity insurance from other sources. I also note that Mr H is not retired so, 
even he did take out his policy at the time when QBE was honoring this promise, he wouldnt 
be eligible for it in any event at this point in time. So, Im not persuaded that QBE has treated 
Mr H unfairly in this regard.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, who clearly feels strongly about his 
complaint. But Im not persuaded that QBE has acted unreasonably here or has treated him 
unfairly in these circumstances. So, I will not be asking the insurer to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman