DRN-3746107
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money she didnt withdraw from 
her account.
What happened
Mrs K says that her card was snatched on 1 February 2022 when she was using a cash 
machine. And that the people that had distracted her must have seen her PIN being entered. 
There was a cash machine withdrawal from her account for £500 before she could report 
what happened to Barclays. And although this was refunded on a temporary basis Barclays 
took this back and this has left Mrs K with financial problems and not able to pay her bills.
Barclays said that it wouldnt be refunding the money. It noted that the PIN on the card had 
been changed on 1 February 2022 at 14:08. The disputed withdrawal was made at a 
different cash machine at 14:16. There had been multiple log ins to mobile banking and 
money had been left in the account. It held Mrs K liable for the payment.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. A balance enquiry using 
Mrs Ks card had been made at 14:01 that day. Shed said she hadnt changed her PIN. And 
so, our investigator couldnt see why the fraudster would have done so having waited to use 
the same machine again at 14:08 as Barclays has shown. That was seven minutes after  
Mrs K had said someone had taken her card and run off with it and thered been other 
people around and witnesses. 
The limit for withdrawals at a cash machine had been increased from £300 to £500 using the 
app at 14:15. And Mrs K hadnt reported what happened until 14:58 when the card was 
marked as stolen. Shed explained that shed run home to get her mobile phone that had the 
app, didnt know how to block the card and then got a bus and walked to a branch. There 
was still money in the account. A fraudster would have known this because there were 
further balance enquiries and so would likely have taken it. And although Mrs K had said 
shed reported the matter to police there was no information to show that any action had 
been taken or that a theft had been confirmed. She didnt find Mrs Ks explanation of events 
to be plausible.
Mrs K didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said it wasnt her fault that 
the money was taken out or that shed been confused given what had happened. And that 
shed been through a lot as a result. The thieves had known what they were doing, and other 
people had been targeted locally too. Mrs K said that no one could understand things unless 
theyd had personal experience. And shed reported it to police, provided a crime number 
and asked us to help her. She needed to get this money back.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if it wasnt authorised  
Mrs K wouldnt generally be responsible for it.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for this 
payment?
- Did Mrs K authorise the payment on the account and which could have involved 
allowing someone else to use the card?
Through our investigator I asked Barclays for some more information and for a further 
explanation of its position on the complaint. It provided some details about the registration 
process for mobile banking. Id also noted that in the final response to Mrs K it had referred 
to there not being any balance enquiries or subsequent attempts to use the card which didnt 
seem right. It didnt make any comments about that or have anything else to add about its 
decision. 
I make clear that I am only looking at the circumstances of this specific complaint and note 
that Barclays settled a dispute about the transfer of money from one of Mrs Ks childrens 
accounts it seems in branch at around the same time. I wont be able to say exactly what 
happened and Im thinking about what is most likely.
This cash withdrawal thats disputed required the genuine card and correct PIN. And as the 
investigators referred to the card was also used for balance enquires around this time. So, 
Im satisfied that the payment was authenticated.
The issue is whether Mrs K consented to it. I am going to be picking up on a number of 
points already made by our investigator which I think are most relevant to that.
Mrs K says she had last made a genuine cash withdrawal on 29 January 2022. The 
evidence from Barclays confirms that her card and PIN were entered to make a balance 
enquiry on 1 February 2022. Mrs K says she hadnt got this far and one of the men behind 
her had banged on the machine and taken her card. The evidence provided by Barclays 
confirms the PIN change on 1 February 2022. In any event theres a gap between the 
balance enquiry which Mrs K says she didnt get to complete as her card was taken and then 
the PIN change which she says she didnt do. I also agree that anyone that had taken her 
card and seen her PIN wouldnt likely remain in the same area especially as Mrs K explains 
there were witnesses.
Id have expected it to be most likely that as much money be taken as quickly as possible. 
There were two balance enquires between 14:13 and 14:14 at a different location about half 
a mile away. The limit was increased using the app at 14:15 and the money taken out just 
before 14:17. Theres no explanation how a fraudster would have been able to access      
Mrs Ks account online to increase the limit as she said shed kept her security information 
safe. And thats a very calculated thing for an opportunistic thief to do in such a short space 
of time. A balance enquiry would have shown that there was still over £700 in the account 
after the withdrawal. So, Id have thought it most likely the card be used for a purchase or to 
access the account through the app if a fraudster had somehow gained access.
During this time a fraudster would expect the card to be reported stolen and would want to 
act quickly and wouldnt anticipate it taking over 50 minutes for Mrs K to do this. On her 
account shed gone what seemed to be the relatively short distance home and then to a local 
branch. That does seem to have taken longer than might have been expected although 
didnt affect the amount disputed.As I say its unclear why no more attempts to take out money were made sooner. The next 
wasnt until 15:54 when a withdrawal of £30 was declined and by then the card had been 
reported stolen.
On one hand and based on Mrs Ks version of events there would have been some planning 
necessary to access and monitor her account including through the app. Shed told Barclays 
that this wasnt her. But on the other hand, if this had been a fraudster whod somehow 
gained access to mobile banking then there were limited attempts to take as much money as 
possible. I take into account that Mrs K did report what happened to police and that an 
officer has subsequently confirmed this to our service and that there had been other similar 
reports around that time as Mrs K says. No action has been taken or any arrests made and 
there is no CCTV. 
Having balanced all these factors Im not persuaded that this withdrawal was most likely 
made without Mrs Ks consent and so by an unknown third party. Im afraid I think its 
reasonable for Barclays to hold Mrs K responsible for it. I can appreciate how disappointed 
shell be given whats at stake for her.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman