DRN-4250748
The complaint
Mr Z complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) and their 
decision to decline the claim he made on his motor insurance policy, before also avoiding 
the policy he held.
What happened
In early October 2022, Mr Z took out a motor insurance policy underwritten by LV. 
Unfortunately, around 16 October, Mr Zs car was stolen. So, he contacted LV to make a 
claim.
LV attempted to validate Mr Zs claim. And when doing so, they thought Mr Z had mis-
represented during his application for the policy by failing to disclose the cars modifications. 
So, LV declined the claim and avoided the policy, keeping the premiums Mr Z had already 
paid. Mr Z was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr Z thought the modifications LV referred to were factory fitted extras, rather than changes 
that would be classed as a modification. And he thought the modifications referred to were 
low value changes, or changes required for maintenance purposes, that didnt increase the 
performance of the car. Mr Z explained hed answer the question about modifications based 
on the information included within the V5 document. So, he didnt think he had purposefully 
misled LV, or misrepresented information, when taking out the policy. And because of this, 
he felt the claim should be accepted and LVs systems altered to prevent similar situations 
arising in the future.
LV responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought they had declined the claim 
fairly, in line with relevant rules and regulations, as they were satisfied Mr Zs car had 
modifications that werent fitted to it originally when it was built. And why they thought they 
were fair to class the misrepresentation as deliberate, they offered to change the 
misrepresentation classification to reckless, so the claim and policy information werent 
visible externally. But they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr Z remained 
unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it in part. They were satisfied that, by 
Mr Z stating there were no modifications during the policy application, there was a qualifying 
misrepresentation. So, they thought LV were fair to decline the claim. But our investigator 
thought the misrepresentation was careless rather than deliberate or reckless. So, in line 
with the rules set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA), our investigator thought LV should refund all premiums paid by Mr Z for the 
policy, plus 8% simple interest from the date of the claim decline to the date of payment.
LV accepted this recommendation. But Mr Z didnt. He provided several comments 
explaining why, which included and are not limited to his belief there are systemic and 
structural issues within LVs business process, and industry regulations, which placed him at 
a disadvantage. He maintained his belief he provided LV with all the necessary information 
on good faith and that this showed he hadnt intended to misrepresent, nor did he think he 
couldve avoided the situation based on the knowledge he had at the time he took out the 
policy. So, for these reasons and others I havent described explicitly, Mr Z maintained his 
belief that LV had acted unfairly. As Mr Z didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I want to set out exactly what Ive been able 
to consider. I note Mr Z has provided extensive comments surrounding what he feels is 
systemic and structural issues within LVs business processes, and the insurance industry 
as a whole. Specifically, Mr Z feels insurance companies should request photos of any car 
they insure, which he thinks wouldve prevented the situation hes now in on this occasion.
But it is not my role, or the role of our service, to comment on an insurers business 
processes as these form part of a business commercial decision making. Any issues 
surrounding this, or the rules and regulations insurers work within as a whole, would fall 
under the remit of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. So, I wont be 
commenting on these aspects of Mr Zs concerns any further. My role, and the role of our 
service, is to consider the individual circumstances of Mr Zs complaint and decide whether I 
think LV have acted fairly and reasonably in that individual situation. So, this is what Ive 
done.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr Z. Ive no doubt it wouldve 
been upsetting for Mr Z to discover his car had been stolen. And I recognise this wouldve 
been made worse due to the circumstances surrounding the theft, and the increased costs 
for Mr Z to make his way home. I also appreciate Mr Z took out his insurance policy with LV 
to assist him both practically and financially in situations such as the one he found himself in. 
So, when LV declined the claim and avoided Mr Zs policy without any premium refund, I can 
understand the shock this wouldve caused and why Mr Z would feel as though hed been 
treated unfairly.
But for me to say LV should reverse their decision to decline the claim, and reinstate Mr Zs 
policy, Id need to be satisfied LV failed to act within the rules and regulations set out within 
CIDRA, which detail the actions an insurer can take when they feel misrepresentation has 
taken place. 
To ensure LV acted in line with CIDRA, I first need to consider whether a misrepresentation 
has taken place. And to consider this, I must think about the question LV asked, and the 
answer Mr Z provided.
Ive seen a screenshot of the system Mr Z wouldve seen when applying for the policy. And 
Ive seen Mr Z wouldve been asked Does the car have any modifications, where he 
wouldve been given the option of selecting Yes or No. I note Mr Z himself doesnt dispute 
this question was asked, or that he answered No. And I can see under the question itself, 
the term modifications was described as modifications are non-standard changes made to 
the car after manufacture, including things like new spoilers or alloy wheels. For the 
insurance to be valid, you must include all modifications. So, Im satisfied the question LV asked was clear and it provided Mr Z with enough 
information to understand the question and have the opportunity to answer the question 
factually.
As Ive already explained, it is accepted that Mr Z answered No to this question. And by 
doing so, he was confirming the car he was insuring hadnt been modified with non-standard 
changes in any way, after its manufacture.
But Ive seen LV feels the car was modified, and theyve provided several items they feel 
werent included with the car at the point of its manufacture. So, Ive had to consider the 
evidence available to me to decide whether I think there were most likely modifications to Mr 
Zs car at the time he took out the policy. And I think there were.
Ive seen during the claim process, Mr Z sent photos of his car to LV to support his claim. 
And when these were sent, Mr Z confirmed that the previous owner imported the car, and 
undertook works/servicing and maintenance, and renovations between date of importation 
and the date he purchased it.
Ive also seen a letter, dated the day after the policy had been taken out, from the seller to 
Mr Z. And this letter states Prior to the sale this vehicle went through extensive repairs, 
restauration and legal upgrades including labour costs listed below before listing several 
items, which include alloy wheels, an exhaust system and an entertainment system.
Crucially, within this letter, I think the seller makes it clear there were legal upgrades. And 
Im satisfied an upgrade would be a modification that improved the original specification at 
manufacture, even though Im aware it was made at a high specification at that time. 
And Ive seen LVs in house engineer considered the specification of the car, alongside the 
photos Mr Z provided and the information available from the seller and deemed the car to 
have modifications. As the engineer was the expert, I dont think LV were unfair to rely on 
the engineers opinion. So, because of the above, Im satisfied there was a 
misrepresentation, as I think there were modifications to the car Mr Z insured.
I then need to think about whether the misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation 
under the terms of CIDRA. So, I need to be satisfied that, had Mr Z stated there were 
modifications, this wouldve affected the terms of the contract LV offered. And LV have 
provided our service with historical underwriting criteria, alongside comments from their 
underwriting department, which confirm that, had a modification been declared, then cover 
wouldnt have been provided. So, Im satisfied there was a qualifying misrepresentation and 
that LV acted fairly and reasonably when coming to this conclusion themselves.
But the actions an insurer such as LV can take when there has been misrepresentation is 
dependent on their classification of the misrepresentation. In this situation, LV initially 
deemed the misrepresentation to be deliberate, before offering to reduce this to reckless. In 
either situation, the actions LV can take are the same. When a misrepresentation is deemed 
to be either deliberate or reckless, an insurer can decline a claim, avoid a policy and keep 
any premiums that have been paid.
But I note our investigator didnt think it was fair to classify the misrepresentation as either 
deliberate or reckless. And instead, they thought it should be classified as careless, which 
LV have since accepted.
For completeness, Ive thought about whether I agree. And in this situation, I do. The onus is 
on an insurer to show a customer has acted deliberately or recklessly when misrepresenting. 
And in this situation, I dont think LV have shown the misrepresentation met that bar.Mr Z has confirmed at the time he insured the car, he hadnt received the letter from the 
seller setting out exactly what works had been done to the car. And Mr Z has explained he 
isnt a motor expert and so, he wasnt sure what work had been completed on a 
service/maintenance basis, or what would be deemed an upgrade and so, a modification.
I think Mr Zs testimony is plausible. And based on Mr Zs V5, I can understand why Mr Z 
wouldve decided to answer the modification question as No, based on his understanding 
of the work completed on the car at the time. But crucially, I do think it was Mr Zs 
responsibility to ensure he was answering the questions as accurately as he could, at the 
time he applied for the policy. And, considering the fact Mr Z had visited the car in person 
and was still waiting for confirmation of the work completed on the car from the seller, I think 
it was ultimately Mr Zs responsibility to ensure his answer was factual and correct.
In this situation, I dont think it was. And so, I think Mr Z acted carelessly when 
misrepresenting, rather than deliberately and recklessly. Because of this, I do think LV acted 
unfairly when classifying the severity of Mr Zs misrepresentation and so, Ive thought about 
what I think they should do to put things right.
Putting things right
When thinking about what I think LV should do to put things right, any award or direction I 
make is intended to place Mr Z back in the position he wouldve been in, had LV acted fairly 
in the first place.
In this situation, had LV acted, I think they wouldve classified Mr Zs misrepresentation as 
careless, rather that deliberate or reckless. So, I think the claim would always have been 
declined, and the policy avoided, as LV are entitled to do so under the rules set out within 
CIDRA. So, Im not directing LV to do anything differently regarding this.
But, had LV classified the misrepresentation as careless, under the rules set out within 
CIDRA they shouldve refunded any premiums paid by Mr Z for the policy. And its not in 
dispute that they didnt do this.
So, I think the premiums Mr Z paid should now be refunded. And I think LV should apply 8% 
simple interest on this refund, from the date of the policy decline to the date of payment, to 
recognise the period of time Mr Z has been without access to these funds.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr Z was hoping for. And I want to reassure Mr Z Ive 
considered all the comments hes made, which made clear his strong feelings towards LV, 
their decision and the rules the industry operate within overall. But as Ive explained earlier 
within my decision, my role is to focus solely on the individual circumstances of this 
complaint. And while I dont think Mr Z purposefully attempted to misrepresent when taking 
the policy, I think its clear the information he gave LV was incorrect. And, that if the 
information he gave had been correct, LV wouldnt have provided the policy. So, I think 
theyve acted fairly, and in line with CIDRA, when not accepting Mr Zs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Zs complaint about Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Refund all premiums Mr Z paid towards the policy plus 8% simple interest from the 
date of the claim decline to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman