DRN-1131870
complaint
Mr T complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited blocked his credit card. He says 
this caused him upset and embarrassment, and hes concerned he was discriminated 
against.
background
In March 2019, Mr T called John Lewis about his credit card. John Lewis says because Mr T 
had some difficulties answering the security questions it asked, and the purpose of his call 
was to increase his credit limit, its advisor had some concerns. Mr T was told his limit 
increase request would be reviewed, and he would be called back. 
Due to the advisors concerns a temporary block was placed on Mr Ts account. John Lewis 
says its advisor should have also referred the account to its fraud department for review, but 
this didnt happen. This meant the account was blocked, with no action being taken.
About a month later, Mr T called John Lewis after discovering he couldnt use his credit card. 
An advisor told him there were security concerns on his account, and his card would remain 
blocked until the relevant department had called him. During the next two months, Mr T 
contacted John Lewis about his blocked account on three more occasions. On the final 
occasion, an advisor chased the fraud department and it was found a referral hadnt yet 
been made. A priority referral was therefore made. 
A week later, the fraud department determined it had no concerns and the account was 
unblocked. But because Mr T was unhappy about what had happened, he referred a 
complaint to this service
John Lewis has explained that in addition to the initial advisors error of not referring their 
concerns, the following advisors should have chased the fraud department and logged a 
complaint  but this also didnt happen. John Lewis offered Mr T £300 for the upset and 
inconvenience its errors had caused.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ts complaint, and she thought John Lewis £300 
offer was fair. Because Mr T disagreed, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt it was upsetting for Mr T to find his account was blocked, and I appreciate this 
would have caused him embarrassment when he tried to use his card. I also understand 
John Lewis wouldnt disclose the reason for the block until its fraud department had 
reviewed the matter, and I appreciate this would have caused further frustration. 
However, whilst I do acknowledge Mr Ts upset, a lender has a responsibility to act when it 
identifies security concerns. So, bearing this in mind, I havent seen anything that leads me to conclude John Lewis acted inappropriately by blocking the account, or by not disclosing 
the reasons.
Nonetheless, John Lewis oversights led to Mr Ts account being blocked for much longer 
than necessary, and much of his upset and inconvenience could have been avoided. But 
having considered the impact on Mr T, Im satisfied that £300 is fair. Ive not been told 
anything that persuades me I can reasonably award anything more.
I note Mr T has also told us that he recently applied for a mobile phone contract and this was 
declined; so, hes concerned John Lewis has recorded adverse information on his credit file. 
As explained by our investigator, if Mr T has concerns about his credit file, he needs to 
obtain a copy. If his concerns are confirmed, he can make a separate complaint. 
my final decision
I appreciate Mr T will remain disappointed. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold 
this complaint. 
My final decision is John Lewis Financial Services Limited should compensate Mr T £300 for 
the upset and inconvenience he suffered as a result of its errors.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Vince Martin
Ombudsman