DRN-4105112
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the response from HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) following a claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). 
What happened
In 2011 Mr W purchased solar panels. He said he was told at the time that the panels would 
provide an income from the Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments and reduce his energy bills.  
In 2022 Mr W contacted this service, saying he had been mis-led about the benefits of the 
panels. He wanted his claim reviewed and his money back. We asked HSBC to look into Mr 
Ws complaint. HSBC wrote to Mr W asking for more information about what had happened 
but says it did not get a response. 
 
Mr W remained unhappy and asked this service to review his complaint. One of our 
investigators contacted Mr W for more information, and he explained that he had paid for the 
panels by cheque. The investigator explained that she didnt think she could ask HSBC to do 
anything further. The way Mr W had paid, meant he didnt have any protection.
 
As Mr W didnt agree, the case was passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
I understand that Mr W feels that he was mis-led about the benefits of his solar panels. But 
what I need to decide first is whether he has any recourse to HSBC for this. 
Section 75
The general effect of Section 75 makes the provider of any credit jointly and severally liable 
where there is a case of misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier of goods or 
services financed by the credit, provided certain conditions are met.
One of the conditions is that there is a direct relationship between the debtor, the creditor 
and the supplier. This is sometimes referred to as a debtor-creditor-supplier (D-C-S) 
agreement, and the formal wording is set out in Section 12 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
A D-C-S agreement refers to the arrangements that need to exist between the relevant 
parties in order to be able to make a Section 75 claim.
So, for Mr W to complain under S75, he would need to have paid by credit, arranged by the 
installer of the panels. But as he paid by cheque, there was no credit involved, so there can 
be no DCS agreement as required. So, I cant ask HSBC to do anything further about Mr Ws 
claim on these grounds.  
Other Options
For completeness Ive also considered if there were any other avenues HSBC could have 
used to help Mr W get his money back. There are other processes that can help a consumer 
reclaim their money if they feel their goods have been mis-represented. However, the 
method Mr W used to pay, cheque, is not covered by any of these arrangements. And in any 
event, Mr W would be out of time for any such action even if he had used different payment 
methods. So, whilst I sympathise with Mr W, I cannot fairly ask HSBC to do anything further 
in this instance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Sarah Holmes
Ombudsman