DRN-3797730
The complaint
Mr N complains about incomplete repairs carried out by West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) 
following an accident claim, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2021 Mr N was involved in a car accident. He made a claim to West Bay and it 
arranged for repairs to be completed. When he collected his car Mr N says he noticed a 
warning light indicating a problem with the cooling system. He booked an appointment with 
an independent garage. The garage found damage with the coolant system and the bumper 
bar was also bent. Mr N says he was told this was a result of his accident. 
Mr N took his car back to West Bays repair centre. It told him the damage wasnt related to 
the original accident. Mr N complained to West Bay and it arranged for an engineer to review 
the report Mr N had supplied along with photos of the original repairs and the damage to the 
coolant system. West Bay wrote to Mr N in December 2021 to say on review of the images 
the damage was caused by an unrelated incident, occurring after the vehicle had been 
repaired. 
West Bay advised Mr N he could make a new claim in relation to this new damage. 
Mr N didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. She says having looked at the repair report and compared the 
photos with those Mr N supplied, its clear sections that had been repaired were now 
damaged. 
Our investigator was satisfied the repairs were completed included replacing the bumper 
cover and draining and refilling the coolant system. She thought West Bays view was 
reasonable that the current damage was caused by a subsequent accident. 
Mr N didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ns complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but 
I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
I can see from the invoice Mr N received that the independent garage carried out repairs to 
his cars radiator and changed the coolant. The total cost for this work came to £487.35. I 
can understand why Mr N thinks West Bay is responsible for these costs, and for repairing 
the other damage. He says a warning light came on as soon as he picked up his car from 
West Bays repairer. However, West Bay is clear that this damage wasnt present when its 
repairer was carrying out the work.
To understand what has happened here, Ive read West Bays repair report. Ive also 
examined the photos taken during the initial repairs, and those supplied by Mr N when his 
chosen garage carried out further repairs to the radiator. In addition, Ive seen the photos he 
took at the roadside when the accident occurred. 
The impact to Mr Ns car was to the drivers side wing, just forward of the front wheel. The 
bent section of bumper is close to the area of impact, albeit slightly across from where this 
occurred. Its possible that this could correspond with where the impact happened. However, 
Ive seen photos of the same area with the bodywork removed, during West Bays repairs. 
This damage isnt visible in the photos.
From what I can see the damage to the radiator is further along the front towards the 
passenger side of the car. The photos from the original repair do include an image of the 
radiator. It doesnt look to be damaged in the area highlighted. Albeit the photo isnt taken at 
close range. When zooming in the resolution doesnt allow for a particularly clear view.
West Bays repair report shows the bumper cover was replaced. The radiator was drained, 
and the coolant fluid was replaced. I think its unlikely that damage to the radiator and the 
bumper would go unnoticed in light of this. And as mentioned, there is no damage visible in 
the photos taken during the initial repairs. 
I dont dispute Mr Ns account of what happened. Its not clear why he didnt return the car to 
West Bays repairer when he first saw the warning light. But based on the evidence 
provided, I dont think West Bay behaved unfairly in concluding the damage wasnt present 
at the time its repairer carried out the work. It suggests this damage may have happened 
without Mr N being aware and says he can make another claim in relation to the repairs 
needed. In these circumstances I think its response is fair.
In summary, having considered all of this, I dont think West Bay behaved unreasonably and 
so I cant fairly ask it to do any more to resolve Mr Ns complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman