DRN-2937361
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with how Revolut Ltd handled matters when he reported to them that hed
fallen victim to a scam. He also complains they have not helped recover or return the loss
which resulted from the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a
brief overview here.
Mr M was travelling abroad with a friend. They went to a local establishment and on exit
were forced to pay a table fee of 800 Turkish Lira. Mr M says they were not made aware of
the charges before entering and from his research, he has found this to be a common scam.
Mr M says fearing for their safety he attempted to make the payment utilising his virtual
Revolut card. His payment attempts were declined. So Mr Ms friend made the payment
using his Revolut card.
Mr M notified Revolut and reported the incident to the local authorities.
Revolut explained no payments had been made from Mr Ms account and that it could not
take action on another users account unless the request came from the account holder. It
advised Mr M, to ask his friend to contact them directly via the in-app support.
Unhappy with Revoluts response Mr M brought his complaint to this service. One of our
investigators thought there were limits as to how much of his complaint we could
consider under the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules. And for what we could
consider, she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr M asked to appeal the outcome reached by the investigator. But as he hadnt specified 
what he disagreed with I issued a jurisdiction decision in which I explained the limits on 
which parts of Mr Ms complaint we can consider and why. In short, I said we only had the 
power to consider his complaint about Revoluts actions in relation to his own account with 
them. Regarding his complaint about his friends account  I explained why he isnt an 
eligible complainant. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, there is not much I can add to what the investigator has already said about 
actions Revolut took when Mr M notified them of the scam. 
Mr M has not suffered a financial loss in these circumstances. 
The payments attempted using Mr Ms virtual debit card were declined. 
Ive seen that when Mr M contacted Revolut to report the scam, it confirmed to him that no 
funds had left his account and correctly advised if his friend (who had suffered a financial 
loss) wanted to raise a dispute he should do so by contacting them directly. 
I dont believe therefore that Revolut can reasonably be expected to have done any more in 
this case.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Revolut Ltd to do anything further 
to resolve Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman