DRN-3379545
The complaint
Mr R has complained MotoNovo Finance Limited has continued to ask him to pay a hire 
purchase agreement after he told them hed not taken possession of the car.
What happened
MotoNovo started to ask Mr R to make repayments on a hire purchase agreement hed 
taken out with them in October 2019. Mr R contacted MotoNovo to confirm hed never taken 
possession of the car in October. Hed cancelled the direct debit after he noticed initial 
payments had been taken. Hed understood from the dealer (who Ill call M) that the hire 
purchase agreement had been cancelled. Mr R then took out another hire purchase 
agreement with a different finance company the following month.
MotoNovo confirmed Mr R had signed the agreement and had made initial payments. As the 
location of the car was unknown, they felt Mr R should pursue a complaint against M 
(despite M since having stopped trading). They were unwilling to offer Mr R any further 
assistance.
Mr R brought his complaint to our service. He explained hed been in contact with M and 
theyd confirmed the agreement had been cancelled. However this didnt happen. M had 
stopped operations. As Mr R realised MotoNovo still expected him to make payments, he 
wanted our service to confirm hed never taken possession of the car.
We ensured that MotoNovo received an email from M in September 2020 confirming that the 
hire purchase agreement should be unwound and Mr R had never had the car. 
After lengthy delays from MotoNovo, our investigator reviewed the evidence. He found there 
was no evidence to suggest Mr R had ever taken possession of the car. He also noted that 
there didnt appear to have been any car for Mr R to purchase. As there was a breach of 
contract with Mr R taking out a hire purchase agreement without ever possessing the car, 
our investigator asked MotoNovo to cancel the hire purchase agreement, remove any 
reference to this from Mr Rs credit record, repay all payments Mr R had made along with 
8% simple interest.
MotoNovo didnt believe they should do this. They also made allegations about M and the 
potential for Mr R being involved in a fraud.
This complaint has been referred to an ombudsman as no agreement could be reached.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
I confirm that prior to completing this final decision I asked Mr R to provide us with more 
information about the circumstances of his attempted purchase at M along with copies of 
bank statements. I appreciate him providing us with this further information despite it now 
being some time since he first brought his complaint to our service.
Hes been clear that he never viewed the high performance car hed been hoping to buy as 
M said there were a few issues which needed attention. It was after a month or so when M 
told him there was no valid MOT that Mr R decided not to proceed with the purchase. 
I also asked MotoNovo to share evidence of what they believed was a wider fraud ring with 
Ms involvement. Theyve had ample opportunity to provide us with this in confidence but 
nothing has been forthcoming. However I am aware from Ms liquidators annual report that 
police have progressed to charging Ms director. This service also has other cases where its 
been suggested M did show cars that resembled cars the customer thought they were 
buying. These cars were never at Ms premises nor were they available for M to sell.
Theres no dispute that Mr R took out the agreement. Initially Mr R wasnt concerned as he 
was expecting repairs to be carried out to the car he was purchasing. It was a month later 
when he found out that M was unable to confirm where the car was. Hed also discovered 
that there was no valid MOT and the car hadnt been taxed for a couple of years.
I can see why Mr R was confident that M knew he didnt want to proceed with the 
agreement. M refunded the first hire purchase payment Mr R had made from his account.
In the end the resolution to this complaint is quite simple. As Mr R was never supplied with 
the car, even though he signed a related hire purchase agreement, I dont believe MotoNovo 
can expect him to pay the agreement. M was acting as their agent and its clear they didnt 
provide Mr R with his car. It also appears from the evidence that this car was never available 
for purchase.
I understand MotoNovo has suggested Mr R has been collusive in the fraud that M seems to 
have been involved in. But I have no evidence this is the case. 
Mr R did initially make payments under the hire purchase agreement. One of these was 
refunded directly by M but a further two payments were taken from Mr Rs account. 
I believe Mr R has also complained to the police about what has happened.
Putting things right
As I believe Mr R never purchased the car relating to this agreement, I am asking MotoNovo 
to put things right.
Mr R has also confirmed that no part-exchange or deposit was ever provided as he kept his 
previous car.
MotoNovo will need to cancel the credit agreement, remove this from Mr Rs credit record 
and refund all payments hed made along with adding 8% simple interest a year.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Motonovo Finance Limited to:
Cancel the hire purchase agreement in Mr Rs name;
Remove this agreement from Mr Rs credit record;Refund all payments Mr R has made under this agreement; and
Add 8% simple interest a year from the date of the payments until the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Ombudsman