DRN-3137464
The complaint
Ms L feels that Santander UK Plc unfairly applied charges and interest to her account, 
contributing to her financial difficulties.
What happened
Ms L complained to Santander about unarranged overdraft charges and interest applied to 
her account in the last six years. She says the charges significantly affected her financial 
circumstances. Ms L also feels that Santander has harassed her by constantly contacting 
her about the overdrawn balance of her account.
Santander looked at Ms Ls complaint, it felt the charges applied to her account were fair and 
noted that it had refunded charges on several occasions to help her out. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Ls concerns, she said she thought Santander should 
refund any charges applied to Ms Ls account after September 2019. Santander confirmed 
that no charges had been applied to Ms Ls account after April 2019, but offered to refund 
the charges that had been applied in March 2019. Ms L didnt think this was enough, and so 
the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about charges applied to overdrafts -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And
Ive thought about this when deciding Ms Ls complaint. 
Having considered everything provided, I dont think Santander needs to do anything more 
than it has already agreed to do.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Santander charged Ms L over the years were fair and reasonable. 
Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Santanders charging structure per se, it wont have acted
fairly and reasonably towards Ms L if it continued to apply any interest, fees and charges to 
her account  or didnt offer any other assistance  in circumstances where it was aware, or 
it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware, that she was experiencing financial 
difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were instances where Santander didnt treat Ms L 
fairly and reasonably.
I dont think that Santander did treat Ms L unfairly or unreasonably though. Looking at her 
account statements, I can see that there were signs on her account that she was struggling 
with managing her finances. I can also see that Ms L contacted Santander several times to 
ask for help with the charges she was receiving. But on each occasion Ms L asked for help 
Santander took steps to assist her by waiving or refunding charges and discussing how she 
could avoid charges in future. I can also see that during these conversations it appears that 
Ms L indicated that the financial difficulties she was having were short term, so I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Santander to offer the help it did rather than taking more serious steps 
such as stopping Ms Ls direct debits or cancelling her card.
When Ms Ls circumstances did take a turn for the worse in 2019, and a debt management 
company contacted Santander on Ms Ls behalf, Santander stopped any further charges 
from being applied to her account and agreed an affordable repayment plan. As Santander 
has now also offered to refund the charges applied to Ms Ls account in March 2019, which 
were applied after the debt management company got in touch, Im satisfied that Santander 
has taken appropriate steps in light of Ms Ls financial difficulties.
I do also appreciate that Ms L found the continued contact from Santander after her 
repayment plan had been agreed frustrating, but I dont think it was unreasonable or 
inappropriate for Santander to contact her about her account.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Ms L, but Im satisfied that what Santander 
has already offered to do is a fair resolution to her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Santander UK Plc needs to do anything more 
than it has already offered to do to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman