DRN-2063512
The complaint
Mr M says Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream), irresponsibly 
lent to him. Mr M says Lending Stream should have known he couldnt afford the loan 
repayments and that he would have to borrow more to repay them leading to a spiral of debt. 
He says he has suffered financial hardship as a result. 
What happened
This complaint is about 11 short-term loans Lending Stream provided to Mr M between July 
2015 and April 2019. There were two chains of borrowing. Mr Ms borrowing history is as 
follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidAmount
1 16/07/2015 31/12/2015 £100.00
2 19/08/2015 29/02/2016 £150.00
3 11/10/2015 31/03/2016 £300.00
4 17/04/2016 31/10/2016   £60.00
5 08/10/2016 22/02/2017 £200.00
6 11/11/2016 21/02/2017 £200.00
7 23/11/2016 21/02/2017 £120.00
8 24/01/2017 30/07/2017 £260.00
9 16/06/2017 30/11/2017 £200.00
10 22/09/2017 07/12/2017 £150.00
Break in lending
11* 02/04/2019 Outstanding £500.00
*My understanding is that at the time Mr M made his complaint to Lending Stream there was 
an outstanding balance of £482.80.
The second of our adjudicators thought loans six to ten shouldnt have been given as Mr M 
was becoming persistently reliant on this type of lending. 
Lending Stream didnt respond to the adjudicator.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure     
Mr M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr M didnt comment on the second of our adjudicators opinion that loans one to five and 
loan 11 shouldnt be upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement 
about these loans. So, I wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were 
part of the borrowing relationship Mr M had with Lending Stream. So, it is something I will 
take into account when considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
I should first say that I am satisfied there are two chains in the lending  loans one to ten and 
then loan eleven. There was a 16-month gap between loan ten being repaid and loan eleven 
being taken. And I think that gap is a sufficient enough amount of time for Lending Stream to 
have reasonably assumed that Mr M had overcome whatever his financial circumstances were that caused him to take the earlier lending. A break in a chain of lending, in effect, 
starts the clock ticking again on what we would consider to be proportionate checks a 
business should carry out when taking into account the length of the borrowing relationship 
with a consumer. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Lending Streams lending history with Mr M, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Lending Stream should reasonably have seen that 
further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Lending Stream should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ms case, like the adjudicator, I think that this point 
was reached by loan six. I say this because:
 
At this point Lending Stream ought to have realised Mr M was not managing to repay 
his loans sustainably. Mr M had taken out six loans within 16 months. So Lending 
Stream ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr M was having to borrow 
further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and 
that Mr Ms indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr M was frequently provided with a new loan within weeks of settling a previous one 
suggesting he was becoming persistently reliant on this type of lending. It was only 
between loans three and four that there wasnt any borrowing. Mr M also had more 
than one loan at any one time.
Mr M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Lending Stream. Loan 
ten was taken out over two years after Mr Ms first. And it was for a larger amount. 
So, Mr M had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Lending 
Stream over an extended period.
I think that Mr M lost out because Lending Stream continued to provide borrowing with loans 
six to ten because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr M borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans six to ten and Lending Stream should put things 
right.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans six to ten;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number of loans from loans six to ten means any information recorded about 
them is adverse. So, all entries about loans six to ten should be removed from Mr Ms 
credit file.
                                                                                                                                 * HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. 
Lending Stream must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ms complaint. Gain Credit LLC 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman