DRN-3665006
The complaint
Ms M complains that she didnt carry out a transaction from her account. And shed like The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to refund the payment. 
What happened
Ms M had two accounts with The Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS). A current and a savings 
account. 
On 15 October 2018 a withdrawal of £1,000 was carried out from Ms Ms current account.
Ms M complained to RBS and explained that she didnt carry out the payment. RBS asked 
Ms M to raise a fraud claim, and explained they that couldnt investigate properly without 
Ms M doing so. And they didnt uphold her complaint. 
Ms M wasnt happy with RBSs response so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ms complaint but they didnt uphold it. In summary 
they thought it most likely Ms M authorised the £1,000 payment. And they didnt ask RBS to 
do anything further. 
Ms M didnt agree. In summary Ms M said: 
Her savings account was tampered with and wasnt closed on the right date. She 
withdrew the balance and closed her account on 15 October 2018, but bank 
statements show it remained open until 18 October 2018. 
The £1,000 payment wasnt withdrawn instead it was transferred to another RBS 
account. 
As Ms M didnt agree its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M is disputing a transaction carried out on 15 October 2018. Its my role to assess 
whether on balance its likely Ms M consented to the transaction. Or if, as Ms M argues, the 
transaction was carried out without her knowledge. Having done so, I think its fair for RBS to 
conclude Ms M likely carried out the transaction  I say this because:
Ms M believes the £1,000 payment was a transfer made from her current account. 
However, having reviewed the evidence provided by RBS Im satisfied the disputed 
transaction was in fact a withdrawal from Ms Ms account.
The disputed transaction was carried out at a local bank branch using chip and PIN. 
Only four minutes after the disputed transaction Ms M carried out an undisputed 
withdrawal of just over £1,050 from her savings account. This transaction also 
required Ms Ms card and her PIN. 
On 30 October 2018 Ms M visited the bank branch and withdrew £685 from her 
current account to bring the account to close. If Ms M hadnt authorised the 
withdrawal on 15 October 2018, Id have expected her to notice the significant 
discrepancy in the balance when closing her account.
Ms M responded to our investigators opinion by arguing that the discrepancy in her 
savings account closing date shows someone was tampering with her accounts. 
However Im afraid I cant agree. Ms Ms savings account was closed on the 
18 October 2018, three days after Ms M withdrew all of her funds. Im satisfied this is 
because of RBS confirming and transferring out the interest earned on her savings 
account to her current account. And isnt evidence that fraudsters had access to her 
accounts.  
I understand this will disappoint Ms M. But from the evidence Ive seen I think on balance 
Ms M carried out the £1,000 withdrawal on 15 October 2018. And I wont be asking RBS to 
do anything further.   
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman