DRN-4152012
The complaint
Mr D complains about the charges PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) applied when he 
returned a car after the end of his hire agreement. He wants PSA to reduce the charges and 
remove any negative entries from his credit file.
What happened
Mr D entered into a hire agreement in July 2019 for a term of 36 months. At the end of the 
term, Mr D says he returned the car and was told he owed £982 in charges. Mr D says PSA 
agreed to remove two of the charges relating to poor paint repair work and reduced the 
outstanding balance to £738, but he says this should now be reduced further. Mr D told us
In October 2022 he returned his car to PSA and the process for collecting the car 
was smooth and straightforward  the third-party collection agent went through some 
general checks to ensure the car was in an acceptable condition;
at the end of the process, the subject of the logbook arose, and he explained it was 
something that hed never been in possession of  but he did have receipts for two 
services on his mobile;
the collection agent said theyd have to note down that an up to date logbook wasnt 
present and said Mr D could dispute any charges that arise and submit copy invoices 
as proof that servicing of the car had occurred;
two weeks later he received an invoice for £982, which included costs for the missing 
logbook and for the three services that shouldve taken place in the time hed had the 
car;
although he challenged the invoice with PSA, it told him that it couldnt accept his 
service receipts in the circumstances  the car had already been sold at auction;
he told PSA that he was concerned about the debt being transferred to a debt 
collection agency and the impact this would have on his credit file  but says he 
received an assurance from PSA that it was not that type of companywant to 
ensure that this was done properly.
over the next few months, he received arrears letters, Notice of Default Sums issued, 
and Notice of Sum in Arrears letters for £738  he later learnt that PSA had removed 
two of the charges  and that default credit notices could be applied to his credit file;
Mr D told us that although hes not been affected by this financially, its been a very stressful 
time and he wants PSA to apologise and reduce the amount owed to the one missing 
service for which he had no receipt, and he wants all reference to these events removed 
from his credit file.
PSA rejected this complaint. It said under the terms of Mr Ds agreement, the vehicle needed 
to be returned in a roadworthy condition and the required documentation needed to be 
present. PSA said these terms and conditions set out clearly that you must service the 
vehicle in accordance with the manufacturers recommendation, and that the repairer must 
stamp the vehicles service book each time as confirmation. If the requirements are not met, 
we are entitled to charge for the missing service history.
PSA explained that under the terms of the hire agreement, missing items such as Service 
Book, Literature Pack and, in this instance Service History are deemed to be outside of fair 
wear and tear and affect the cars re-sale value, and accordingly it would levy a charge. It 
said it was Mr Ds responsibility to ensure that the car had a full service history and that the 
Service Book was stamped and available at the time of inspection. If the car were returned 
without the Service Book stamped or any items missing, then a charge would be applied.
PSA said it had noted what Mr D had said about the Service Book not being present at the 
point the car was handed over, but it said hed signed the delivery note in July 2019 to 
confirm hed taken receipt of it. And PSA disputed that the collection agent wouldve told 
Mr D that invoice images on his mobile would be sufficient  it said physical invoices as 
detailed in the confirmation email sent to Mr D wouldve been required.
It also said that Mr D needed to return the vehicle with no damage outside of fair wear and 
tear. And it explained that it had reviewed the photographs and the inspection report 
provided by its collection agent and it was satisfied that there was damage to one of the 
alloys and one of the car doors was now mis-aligned. It was satisfied that the identified 
damage was clearly evidenced and was outside fair wear and tear. But it did agree to 
remove two other charges for poor paintwork, and it reduced the total amount owing from 
£955 to £738.
Mr D disagreed and brought his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she thought one of the remaining charges 
should be removed. She explained that the standard for what constitutes fair wear and tear 
is set out in the British Vehicle Renting Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines and her role 
was to decide whether the charges applied by PSA were fair and reasonable.
She said shed looked at the inspection report submitted by PSA to support its position and 
she thought the damage to the alloy wheel was visible and outside the fair wear and tear 
guidance and, as a result, was chargeable. And she said that the charges in respect of the 
missing Service Book and service history were also chargeable and fair.
She said the charge for the misaligned rear door should be removed because not only was 
there no reference to this standard in the industry guidelines, but the photographic evidence 
provided by PSA wasnt persuasive  she simply couldnt see any misalignment or damage 
to the door. Because of this, she asked PSA to remove the £50 charge from the amount 
owed.
PSA accepted our investigators opinion, but she received no response from Mr D, so the 
complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr D wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of his complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. Mr D should note, 
however, that although I may not address each individual point that hes raised, I have given 
careful consideration to all of his submissions before arriving at my decision.Having considered all the evidence and testimony from both Mr D and PSA afresh, Ive 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill 
explain why.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr D must keep the vehicle in good 
condition, carry out repairs and replace parts when necessary and maintain and service the 
vehicle in accordance with the manufacturers recommendations. It is your responsibility to 
ensure that the repairer stamps the vehicles service book each time the vehicle is serviced 
(the service book must be returned to us on the day of collection. So, Im satisfied that 
Mr D was responsible for returning the car in good condition, but the question is whether all 
the charges applied by PSA are fair and reasonable.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVLRA) and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear. So, Ive taken these into account 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable for PSA to charge Mr D.
Alloy wheel
PSAs inspection says damage to one of the alloy wheels is deemed to be outside fair wear 
and tear:
Front Alloy Wheel  scuffed - £65.00
The BVRLA guidance sets out the standard regarding fair wear and tear to alloy wheels. It 
says:
Dents and holes on wheel rims and wheel trims are not acceptable
Scuffs totalling up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel trim and on alloy 
wheels are acceptable
Any damage to the wheel spokes and the hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable
Ive looked very carefully at the photograph that PSA provided, and Im satisfied that the 
alloy is damaged as detailed in the inspection report and that the damage is outside fair 
wear and tear. The alloy has damage that exceeds the acceptable level. So, I think the 
charge in respect of the alloy wheel has been applied fairly.
Service Book and history
PSAs inspection report says the Service Book is missing and that theres no evidence of the 
three services that shouldve been undertaken. Its applied a charge of £23 in respect of the 
missing Service Book, and a further £200 for each of the three missed services. 
The BVRLA guidance sets out the industry standard on this matter. It says:
The vehicle must have been serviced and looked after according to the 
manufacturers servicing/maintenance schedule
The Service book, if originally supplied with the vehicle, must be present and date-
stamped by the repairer or workshop as evidence that the services have taken place
Taking this into consideration along with the wording on the hire agreement, Im satisfied it 
was Mr Ds responsibility to ensure that services were recorded correctly in the Service 
Book, and that the Service Book was returned with the car at the end of the hire agreement.Mr D says the Service Book wasnt present when he first took delivery of the car. PSA 
disagrees and says it wouldve been present. Where both parties disagree on something like 
this, I have to decide what I think is more likely to have happened taking into account all the 
evidence.
Ive been given a copy of the Customer Delivery Receipt dated 1July 2019, and on this form, 
there was the following statement:
Was the manufacturers handbook/service book in the vehicle
I can see that theres a Yes box and a No box. The Yes box has been selected. And just 
below this statement, Mr D has signed and dated this document. 
Furthermore, Ive had sight of the letters sent by the collection agent to Mr D in the weeks 
before the car was collected. Letters were sent on 3 July 2022, and again on 22 August 
2022. These letters make it clear that the vehicle must have been services and looked after 
according to the manufacturers servicing/maintenance schedule. And it goes on to say that 
the Service Book must be present, and date stamped by the service provider as evidence 
that the services have taken place
So, on balance, Im satisfied that a Service Book was likely present when the car was 
delivered to Mr D, and that he knew, or ought reasonably to have known of his obligations in 
respect of it.
Given all of the above, Im satisfied that the charges PSA asked Mr D to pay were applied 
fairly and in line with relevant industry guidance and that PSA has acted fairly in respect of 
the charges it applied.
I know Mr D is unhappy about PSA informing him that it could instruct a third-party debt 
collection agency to manage his account, and I understand why Mr D might be unhappy 
about this. But PSA is allowed to appoint a third party to manage the debt collection process 
and it can record non-payment of the outstanding balance on Mr Ds credit file. The fact he 
has an ongoing complaint with PSA, or the fact that hes now brought his complaint to this 
Service, does not automatically mean that PSAs debt collection activities should be 
suspended or reversed  this is because there is an outstanding balance, and PSA has been 
clear that this amount remains unpaid.
I appreciate Mr Ds concerns about his credit file and the effect this may have on future 
lending applications. Mr D may be interested to note that he can place a Notice of 
Correction on his credit records. The purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the 
opportunity to add any explanatory circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to 
take into consideration when making lending decisions. And if he wishes to do this, he 
should contact the credit reference agencies directly.
I know Mr D will be disappointed with the outcome of his complaint, but I hope he 
understands why Ive reached the conclusions that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman