DRN-3668452
The complaint
Mr L complains about U K Insurance trading as Direct Line Insurance (UKI), declining a 
claim under his home insurance policy for damage to his property caused by bad weather. 
UKI use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to UKI includes 
these agents.
What happened
In February 2022, Mr Ls property suffered roof damage, to the bonnet hip at the rear of the 
property. He contacted UKI to tell them about the damage and lodge a claim.
UKI arranged for a surveyor (S) to visit the property and assess the damage. He inspected 
the damage and in his report noted a section of the bonnet hip had moved in the storm and 
required refitting back into position. However, the report also noted the tiles were of clay 
construction and were starting to delaminate in places. It went on to say ridge mortar on the 
roof was degraded and the roof was nearing the end of its useful life. As such the weather 
conditions had merely highlighted the issues with the roof.
Based on Ss report and its findings, UKI declined the claim on the grounds the policy 
excluded cover for damage resulting from wear and tear and gradual deterioration. Mr L 
challenged UKIs decision and complained about their decision to decline the claim.
In their final response UKI confirmed their decision to decline the claim. They referred to Ss 
findings that the roof tiles had delaminated in places and the roof was approaching the end 
of its serviceable life. As such, the bad weather had merely highlighted the issue. UKI also 
referred to the policy terms, which meant wear and tear, or damage caused gradually, wasnt 
covered. But UKI did uphold that part of the complaint about communication with Mr L. They 
acknowledged a delay in appointing S and it then took two weeks for S to call Mr L to 
discuss the outcome of their visit on the claim. UKI apologised for the inconvenience caused 
and awarded £50 in compensation.
Mr L then complained to this service. He said Ss report contained factual inaccuracies. Hed 
also had repairs to the roof carried out in 2020, so it had been maintained. He had to pay for 
the cost of repairs to the roof in the storm (£2,840) which was a significant sum for him. Hed 
also spent significant time and suffered inconvenience in communication with UKI, seeking 
their reversal of their decision to decline his claim. He wanted UKI to accept the claim, pay 
the £2,840 cost of repairs, and compensation for the stress and inconvenience hed suffered.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding UKI had acted fairly in declining the 
claim. Noting Ss report, she concluded the main cause of the damage was wear and tear, 
excluded from cover in the policy, not the storm itself. Based on the information available, 
the indications were the roof was constructed in 1970 and a roof of that construction would 
typically have a lifespan of 50 years. So, the roof would have been just past this period at the 
time of the incident. She also noted the affected tiles werent ones replaced in the work 
previously carried out by Mr L. 
Mr L disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He thought the investigator had accepted the views of S without questioning 
them. Also, the evidence from the work carried out by the roofing companies hed engaged 
didnt indicate the need to carry out work on the area of the roof (they carried out all the work 
they advised was required). He also thought a more detailed examination of the affected 
area would have been needed to determine whether degraded mortar had caused the 
section of tiles to slip (S had only carried out his inspection from ground level). He also said 
hed maintained his roof satisfactorily, indicating that storm damage was far more likely to be 
the cause of the damage (not wear and tear).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether UKI has acted fairly towards Mr L.
The main element of Mr Ls complaint is that UKI unfairly declined his claim, on the grounds 
that the weather conditions at the time of the incident werent the main cause of the damage. 
Rather, it was due to issue with the condition of the tiles and the roof. As such the weather 
conditions had merely highlighted issues with the roof. Mr L says the report from S (which 
UKI used as the basis of the decision to decline the claim) contained factual inaccuracies. 
He also says hed had maintenance work carried out on the roof less than two years before 
the incident, showing the roof had been maintained.
In considering the main element of the complaint, the key issue is whether the condition of 
the roof was highlighted by the weather conditions (that is, there were pre-existing issues of 
wear and tear and gradual deterioration). Rather than the damage resulting from the weather 
conditions themselves. In considering this issue, Ive thought about the three key issues we 
consider, as a service, when bad weather (a storm) causes damage to a property:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, the date of the incident was at the time of Storm Eunice and its 
aftermath. The reports from the weather firm this service uses also indicate storm conditions 
at the time of the incident (the description is dry storm for the report from the weather 
station nearest to Mr Ls property). So, Ive concluded there were storm conditions present 
around the date of the incident. 
On the second question, the photographs from Ss report and the description of the damage 
to the roof (that a section of the bonnet hip on the roof has moved) indicate damage wed 
expect in [dry] storm conditions, particularly high winds. So, Ive concluded the damage is 
consistent with that a storm typically causes.
The third question is therefore the key issue, where Mr L and UKI disagree. Ive considered 
both views carefully, together with the report from S and the photographs taken by him. Ive 
also considered the points made by Mr L about maintenance work hed had carried out on 
the roof within the two years leading up to the incident. Taking all these points into account, 
Ive concluded UKI havent acted fairly in declining Mr Ls claim. Ill set out why Ive come to 
this conclusion.
Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think its 
reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that led to damage. 
But where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as in this case) 
then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at the available information 
and evidence, I think UKI have, on balance, done enough in the specific circumstances of 
this case to show the exclusion applies. Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their final response, UKI referred to the policy not covering wear and tear and gradual 
deterioration. The relevant policy wording states:
X Just like most insurers we dont cover:
Wear and tear
Maintenance and routine decoration
Any damage caused gradually
Ive also noted the findings and conclusions in Ss report, summarised above, about the 
condition of the mortar (and the roof more generally). 
Ive considered the question of the condition of the mortar and whether this would have been 
(as UKI maintain) the cause (or dominant cause) of the damage. Looking at the photographs 
taken by UKIs surveyor, there is evidence of mortar deterioration underpinning the bonnet 
hip tiles. So, I think they are sufficient to form a view on the likely cause of the damage, 
together with Ss experience as a surveyor.
Mr L says work wasnt carried out in this area by his roofing contractor as they didnt advise 
it was needed. However, while that may have reflected their view of the condition of the 
mortar at the time, it wouldnt have precluded the degradation not being clear at that time, 
nor of any subsequent degradation to the time of the incident.
 
The photographs also show clearly (from the different shading) that the mortar under the 
ridge tiles at the top of the roof was relatively new (so consistent with the work carried out in 
2020). Whereas the mortar under the bonnet hip wasnt new. Taking all these points into 
account, on balance, Im persuaded by Ss view about the mortar being degraded and 
therefore the storm would have highlighted this issue (rather than being the main or 
dominant cause of the damage).
 
On Mr Ls point about the roof being maintained, I accept what hes said about work being 
carried out in the period before the incident (and the quotes and subsequent invoice show 
this). I also accept his point he wasnt advised that the roof needing replacing. However, this 
doesnt affect my conclusion about the part of the roof that was damaged in the storm wasnt 
one where the previous maintenance (repair) work was carried out. Nor my conclusion about 
the degradation of the mortar under the bonnet hip tiles.
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded UKI acted fairly in applying the exclusion for 
wear and tear (and maintenance). And so, theyve acted fairly in declining Mr Ls claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman