DRN-2474340
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that their mortgagee Accord Mortgages Limited refuses to complete 
a new interest rate product transfer on the grounds that it received their acceptance form 
after the product expiry date. They say they sent the form back on time and cant be held 
responsible for postal delays.
Theyve been compelled to accept a significantly higher rate and they expect Accord to 
refund the difference and compensate them for the trouble and anxiety caused.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have a mortgage with Accord. On 22 August 2019 they requested by phone a 
two-year fixed-interest rate product at 1.99%, which was on offer. On that day Accord sent 
them a product transfer offer. The covering letter said they must sign, date and return the 
product transfer acceptance form before the expiry date stated in the offer. That date was 
5 September, which is 14 days later. They completed the acceptance form and sent it to 
Accord on 2 September. 
On 24 September they received what they describe as a standard letter dated 
17 September from Accord, saying:
We recently wrote to let you know that your mortgage deal will soon be ending.  As we 
havent heard from you yet, we thought it might be helpful to send you a reminder. If youve 
contacted us about setting up a new mortgage deal in the last few days, you dont need to 
do anything. If you havent, then please get in touch now.
So the next day they phoned to double-check, and Accord said it hadnt received their 
acceptance form in time. By this time the 1.99% offer had expired and Mr and Mrs S took a 
product at 2.14%.
They complained to Accord. They said theyd sent the acceptance within 14 days of 
receiving the offer. The terms didnt say it must be received by Accord within 14 days, and in 
any event, they didnt control the postal service.
Accord didnt uphold their complaint. It said it had explained the terms and conditions of the 
agreement, which included verbal confirmation that the acceptance form needed to be 
signed and returned within 14 days. Accords position is that it received the form on 
7 September. 
Mr and Mrs S had felt this was open to interpretation and didnt specify that the acceptance 
form must be received within 14 days, but rather sent within 14 days. However Accord had 
to enforce a strict approach to the 14 days allowed for the acceptance form to be received.
Mr and Mrs S then brought their complaint to our service. They said the terms didnt say the 
acceptance must be received within 14 days. To ensure something was received within 14 
days was virtually impossible as they had no control over the postal system.
They said the terms of the offer around sending and receiving werent clear. The wording 
was please sign the acceptance form and send it back to us within 14 days of the offer 
date. They did this. They said Accord had admitted that the acceptance was stamped as 
received within time but not necessarily with the right person.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said Mr and Mrs S had 
been told theyd need to return the acceptance form within 14 days to qualify for the rate. 
This meant Accord had to receive it within 14 days.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree and asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They 
said Accord had confirmed it received the form in time, just not in the right department. It
had been date stamped as within time. Returning within 14 days meant sending within 14 
days. A contract was accepted when sent, not when received. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Accords letter of 22 August 2019 sending the product transfer offer didnt say please sign 
the acceptance form and send it back to us within 14 days of the offer date. It said they 
must sign, date and return the product transfer acceptance form before the expiry date 
stated in the offer. 
Mr and Mrs S say that legally, returning within 14 days means merely sending within 14 
days. But I dont consider that the common law rule on when acceptance of an offer takes 
place is the determining factor here. The offer said the acceptance form had to be returned 
before the expiry date. If it was still in the post on that date then it hadnt been returned.
 
Accord says the form was received on 7 September and that it cant locate any notes or calls 
where it advised Mr and Mrs S that the acceptance form had been received earlier by 
another department. There is no date stamp. It says that if Mr and Mrs S have proof 
otherwise, it will review this. Mr and Mrs S have confirmed they dont have such proof and 
say that it is for Accord to prove the contrary.
It is Mr and Mrs S who are bringing this complaint and I consider the burden of proving 
receipt by Accord on or before 5 September lies upon them. Its often possible to assume 
that a document is received within 2 or 3 days of posting. However in the light of Accords 
assertion that it received the acceptance form on 7 September, Im not prepared to conclude 
that if it was posted on 2 September it was probably received before 5 September.
It follows that on the balance of probabilities, the rate of 1.99% had expired by the time the 
acceptance form was received. Im therefore unable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2021.
 
Edward Callaghan
Ombudsman