DRN-3068982
The complaint
  Mr M and Miss N complain about the resolution that Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited (Lloyds) offered them following a claim under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
  Mr M and Miss N had a leak in their home that caused damage to their property. They 
believed that the leak originated from their bathroom as the water stain was in that area. 
They contacted Lloyds who accepted the claim and told them to take photographs of the 
damage and to get quotes for the work. Lloyds let them know that the plumbing repairs 
wouldnt be covered under their policy, but the leak would be. 
The leak was eventually traced to come from a shower valve and not from where it was 
initially thought of, as underfloor pipes. The valve had been located behind a false wall/ 
panelled box that hid the shower mechanisms. This became damaged due to the leak.  
Lloyds sent a surveyor to assess the damage and he queried whether the trace and access 
work to find the leak, was covered under the policy. Lloyds said that it was reasonable to 
assume that the leak came from the bathroom and it declined to cover the trace and access 
costs. Mr M and Miss N didnt agree as they said that their policy provided for trace and 
access. 
Mr M and Miss N obtained two quotes which they submitted to Lloyds. The quotes were 
largely similar in terms of the scope of works, but the estimates were £2,350 and £3,750. 
Both quotes were consistent in concluding that the shower tray had become unstable (due to 
the leak) the shower required stripping back with a new low-level tray to be installed. The 
quotes also said that the panelling and false wall would be removed, and tiles would be 
installed, directly onto the wall. This meant that no false wall would be reinstated. 
Mr M and Miss N used the contractors with the lowest quote and sent the details for 
reimbursement, to Lloyds. Lloyds told them that it wouldnt cover the cost of the tiling and the 
shower tray as it deemed these as betterment. It also said that the trace and access costs 
wouldnt be covered. Lloyds offered a cash settlement of £1,100 based on what it wouldve 
cost Lloyds, had it carried out the repairs.
Mr M and Miss N were upset with this outcome and so raised a complaint. Lloyds accepted 
that the trace and access was covered. But didnt pay this. It offered £25 compensation for 
the poor service they received during a phone call. Mr M and Miss N referred the complaint 
to our service as they remained dissatisfied with the resolution Lloyds offered. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said 
that changing the shower tray and the tiling didnt amount to betterment. The tray needed to 
be replaced in order to provide a lasting and effective repair. His view was that because 
Lloyds had agreed to replace the panelling, then he wouldve expected Lloyds to pay at least 
the cost of the panelling, if the tiling was more expensive. Finally, he also recommended that 
Lloyds increase its level of compensation to £100.
Mr M and Miss N agreed with his view, Lloyds did not. It said that the shower tray hadnt 
been damaged and was changed for design purposes, not because of an insured peril. It 
also relied upon the policy exclusion, that faulty workmanship wasnt covered as the shower 
tray was changed due to design. So, it asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I will uphold this complaint. I hope my findings go some way in explaining 
why Ive reached this decision.
Mr M and Miss Ns policy entitled them to be returned into the position they wouldve been in 
had their property not been damaged. The policy also allowed for any repairs on a like for 
like basis. This means that it isnt there to provide betterment. 
Whilst I accept that the policy wasnt there to provide betterment, I do think that it was there 
to ensure that if any damage occurred as a result of an insured peril, repairs would be 
carried out that were effective and lasting. Lloyds accepted that the insured peril here was 
the escape of water. I also think that its reasonable that Lloyds would want to obtain a cost-
effective option, when repairs were carried out. The main issue is whether Mr M and Miss 
Ns repairs amounted to betterment. So, Ill focus on this point.
Lloyds asked Mr M and Miss N to obtain quotes for the work, which they did. I have 
considered the quotes that were provided, and I note that those quotes outlined similar 
required repairs. I also note that Lloyds surveyor in its scope of works, was consistent with 
the quotes that Mr M and Miss N obtained. Except it recommended that the false wall, 
existing shower tray and panelling were to be removed, the wall rebuilt and all items to be 
reinstalled. 
Lloyds said that the removal of the original shower tray and panelling amounted to 
betterment. But I dont think it was and Ill explain why. Mr M and Miss N said that they were 
advised by their contractors that the original shower unit that was mounted on a false 
wall/box had become damaged due to the leak. Their contractor said that it wouldve been 
more costly to have re-built the damaged wall/box and less water tight, than mounting the 
new shower directly onto the wall. As the new shower would fit flush to the wall, the original 
shower tray couldnt be used. Essentially this was a cheaper alternative repair. 
Lloyds hasnt provided any evidence to disprove this recommendation. But has said that as 
the original shower tray was undamaged it shouldve been re-used. As I previously 
mentioned, I think that the purpose of carrying out the work was to ensure an effective and 
lasting repair. Im not persuaded that had the false wall/box been re-installed, it wouldve 
provided an effective and lasting repair. Nor do I think that its reasonable for costly repairs 
to take place, when there are cheaper alternatives.  So, I dont think it was fair for Lloyds to 
have deducted the cost of this, from the settlement figure. 
Lloyds accepted that trace and access was covered under the policy and having reviewed 
the terms I can see that it is: We will pay the reasonable cost of removing and replacing any 
other part of the building necessary to find the source of the leak and making good.Mr M and Miss N said that they hadnt received any payment in the cash settlement for the 
trace and access carried out. Lloyds confirmed that it wouldnt pay for any repairs to the 
leaking pipework as this was a maintenance related issue. But, as the shower cubicle had 
been taken apart to gain access to the leak and its surveyors had included trace and access 
in their scope of works such as remove, dispose of walls, take out shower unit and re-fix, 
take off skirting flooring and sub floor, this was covered.  So, Im satisfied that Lloyds 
accepted that trace and access was covered, and I think it should make a payment to Mr M 
and Miss N, for the costs of the trace and access.
Ive next considered the level of compensation Lloyds paid for the trouble and upset it 
caused. I note that it offered £25 due to poor customer service that Mr M and Miss N 
experienced in a phone call. However, Mr M and Miss N said that they felt as though they 
were being punished for making a claim and that they were trying to get more out of their 
insurance, even though they had been clear and transparent in providing the quotes and the 
work that was needed. Accordingly, I do think its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to pay an 
additional £75 compensation (£100 in total) to reflect the impact and distress caused.     
Putting things right
 I direct Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to put things right as I set out below. 
 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr M and Miss Ns complaint and direct Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited to:
Include the previously excluded works regarding the shower unit and
tray plus 8% simple annual interest from when the cash settlement was originally made.
Include the cost of trace and access plus 8% simple annual interest from the date the cash 
settlement was originally made.
Should pay £100 compensation in total for the distress and inconvenience caused. Lloyds 
should pay this amount within 28 days of the date we tell it Mr M and Miss N accept my final 
decision. If it doesnt, Lloyds should pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date of 
my final decision to the date of payment. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss N 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman