DRN-3746295
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled the claims he 
made on his travel insurance policy, and the service he received.
What happened
Mr C had the benefit of an annual, multi-trip, travel insurance policy, underwritten by Admiral 
(the policy). Mr C made three separate claims on the policy, all of which were declined by 
Admiral. Unhappy with the decisions made by Admiral and the service he received, Mr C 
raised his concerns. Admiral maintained that it was right to decline the claims and it didnt 
think it had provided Mr C with poor service. Mr C then asked our service to investigate. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. Because Mr C disagreed with our 
investigators overall outcome, his complaint has been passed to me to consider everything 
afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral has an obligation to treat its customers fairly. It should handle claims fairly and 
promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably decline a claim. 
I understand Mr Cs disappointment but for the reasons set out below, I dont think Admiral 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. So, I dont uphold his complaint.
Declined claims
Booking incorrect dates:
Mr C mistakenly booked accommodation a month earlier than the flight, and he made a 
claim for his out-of-pocket costs. Having looked at the policy terms and conditions, such 
situation isnt listed as an insured event. So, in the circumstances of this case, I dont think 
Admiral has acted unfairly by declining the claim. 
Being denied boarding:
Having looked at the cancellation and missed departures section of the policy terms and 
conditions, the circumstances which led to Mr C not being able to board his flight arent listed 
as an insured event. 
These sections of the policy also contain an exclusion which says any claim wont be paid if 
you dont have a valid passport, visa, documents or meet the entry requirement for the 
country you plan to travel to or through for your trip Even if the airline erred by not 
allowing Mr C to board his flight because it was under the impression that Mr Cs passport 
didnt meet the requirements to travel to the country hed booked to travel to, I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable for Admiral to cover the claim here. 
Further, theres no other section of the policy which covers Mr C in such circumstances. So, I 
dont think Admiral has unfairly declined the claim.
Lost or stolen tablet:
The policy does provide cover for lost or stolen personal belongings, subject to the 
remaining terms of the policy. It says:
If youre claiming for lost, stolen or accidentally damaged personal belongings, you must:
-report any loss or theft to the police or your transport operator within 24 hours of 
discovering it and get a written police report
It isnt disputed that Mr C didnt report the loss or theft of his tablet to the police. Mr C says 
he didnt have time to do so before departing the country as he only noticed it was missing 
when he was at the departure airport. 
However, without evidence that hed reported the theft or loss to the police (and without a 
written police report), I think Admiral has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances by 
relying on the policy terms to decline the claim. Particularly as Ive seen nothing to show that 
Mr C tried to contact the accommodation provider or police within a reasonable period after 
the 24 hours mentioned in the terms. When making this finding, Ive taken into account what 
Mr C says about his medication and how it can affect his memory. But I dont think this 
means Admiral has unfairly applied the requirements of the policy terms in this case. 
Customer service 
Mr C is unhappy with the time it took to register claims with Admiral. He says he couldnt 
complete the claim form through the portal as he couldnt progress beyond a certain section. 
Hes also unhappy with the time taken by Admiral to respond to his communications and 
that, on many occasions, he didnt receive a response at all. So, he had to continually chase 
Admiral for replies. 
Admiral has said that there were no reported technical issues with the claim form around the 
time Mr C says he tried to complete it. Even if thats the case, I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for Admiral to assist Mr C if hed reported such issues to it.
Mr C has provided us with copies of many emails hed sent in March and April 2022. These 
were sent to various email addresses. Having considered the email addresses used by Mr C 
to correspond with Admiral about his travel insurance claims, Im satisfied that many of these 
werent being sent to the travel insurance department. Im satisfied that many of the emails 
were being sent to other legal entities or departments, unrelated to travel insurance. Thats 
why he was often told that there was no record of his policy, and he was asked to provide 
further details so that his policy could be located. 
Although it looks like Mr C also replied directly to some emails sent to him by Admiral, I think 
its likely that this inbox wasnt monitored. Admiral has provided an automated email 
response that Mr C wouldve received if hed sent correspondence to that email address. I 
dont know for sure whether Mr C did receive this at the time. But Im persuaded that its 
most likely that he did  and notified that his emails wouldnt be reviewed through this inbox. 
And directed instead to the online portal. 
I can understand Mr Cs frustrations about not receiving responses - or when he did receive 
replies, he was asked to provide information that hed already given about the policy. But, 
overall, Im satisfied that Admiral hasnt acted unfairly and reasonably here by not progressing his claims sooner  or not responding to email correspondence that was either 
sent to unmonitored mailboxes or different entities/departments.
Mr C says Admirals failure to assist him meant that it failed to make reasonable adjustments 
for him. Even if Mr C has a disability as defined by the Equality 2010 (the Act)  and that 
Admiral was under a duty to make reasonable adjustments to prevent him being 
substantially disadvantaged  our service doesnt have the power to find that there has been 
a breach of the Act. Only a Court can do that. However, I am required to take into account 
relevant law when considering whether Admiral has acted fairly and reasonably in this case. 
Before declining the claims, I cant see that Admiral was made aware of any adjustments Mr 
C needed  or reasonably ought to have been aware from the communications it did receive.  
And although Mr C says that he found having so many email addresses confusing, Admiral 
hadnt provided these email addresses to Mr C either directly, in the policy terms or via its 
website. The policy terms refer him to the website to find out how to make a claim (which in 
turn directs him to the portal) or to call a stipulated phone number. Although Mr C says there 
were technical issues with the online claim form, there were other ways he couldve 
contacted Admiral rather than using the email addresses hed sourced. 
After his claims had been declined, and a final response had been issued, in mid-April 2022, 
Mr C requested a copy of the policy terms several times without a reply. Its clear from 
reading the emails that Mr C was becoming increasingly upset about not receiving an 
acknowledgement or reply to his requests. But some of these emails had been sent to email 
addresses which Ive found above were most likely not being monitored. 
So, I dont think Admiral acted unfairly in the circumstances by not sending the policy 
documents to him until the end of May 2022. Further, from the screenshots provided by 
Admiral, Im satisfied that Mr C had been emailed the policy documents in January 2022 
when taking out the policy, so he had access to the policy terms. From what Ive seen, it also 
looks like Mr C couldve viewed the policy documents via the online portal for which hed 
registered and was able to access (and from the log in history provided by Admiral, had 
regularly done so in March and in mid-April 2022).  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman