DRN-2214975
The complaint
Mr S says Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty, irresponsibly lent to him. He also says it 
increased the credit limit on his account without checking his credit history.
What happened
This complaint is about one running credit account Drafty provided to Mr S in November 
2017. This was an arrangement where Mr S could withdraw up to an agreed credit limit. 
Each month he would need to repay a minimum of 2% of the outstanding balance plus any 
accrued interest and charges, or £10 if this was higher. 
The account had an initial credit limit of £500. Mr S withdrew up to this amount almost 
straight away. The statements provided by Provident show the account credit limit was 
increased to £1,150 in February 2018, £1,500 in April 2018, £1,750 in April 2019 and £2,220 
in September 2019. These increases may have taken place shortly before the statement 
dates as they are monthly and cover the previous months transactions. 
Mr S again withdrew up to these limits almost straight away. He remained at, or close to, the 
credit limits for much of the remainder of the life of the account. On many occasions Mr S 
was only able to repay the interest due on the account. Mr S made his last withdrawal on in 
September 2019. I understand the facility still has an outstanding balance.  
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr S complaint and thought that Drafty shouldnt have 
approved any lending from 3 November 2018 onwards. 
Drafty agreed and has made on offer to pay compensation on the same basis that the 
adjudicator recommended. 
Mr S disagreed. He thinks that the first two credit limits increases werent reasonable as they 
were made without proper checks. He thinks Drafty shouldnt have lent beyond the first 
(February 2018) credit limit increase and that his outstanding balance should be reduced to 
nil.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that Drafty needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to make 
sure Mr S could repay his loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may come a 
point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the 
lending was unsustainable.
And Drafty needed to monitor the account on an ongoing basis to ensure that the use of it 
didnt make it reasonable to think that Mr R was in financial difficulty. The FCA guidance is 
set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook. Section 6.7.2R of the relevant guidance says: 
A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action were there 
are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
Mr S didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion not to uphold the complaint about Drafty 
initially approving the loan. And Drafty has also agreed that it shouldnt have lent past 
November 2018. Because of this I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about the 
start of the lending or the any lending past November 2018. So I wont be making a decision 
about happened during these periods of time. 
For completeness, I have included the offer made in my putting things right section. And this 
lending was part of the borrowing relationship Mr S had with Drafty. So, it is something I will 
take into account when considering the other drawdowns he made.
As Ive outlined above the credit limit for this account was increased twice relatively early on 
in the lending. Ive need to considered if it was reasonable for Drafty to do this given what it 
knew about Mr S circumstances.
Ive seen a record of the information Mr S provided when he completed his loan application. 
As far as I can see Drafty didnt ask for this information again but I think, given how close the 
credit limit increases were to the time of sale that it was reasonable for Drafty to think this 
information was still relevant. Mr S said he had a monthly income of £1,800 and he had 
regular monthly outgoings of £175. So it wouldve been reasonable for Drafty to think that 
Mr S had enough disposable income to make the loan repayments. 
Drafty says it looked at statistical averages and revised his expenditure details after doing 
this. And it says it looked at his credit report each month to see if his credit score had 
reduced or there were any other signs of financial distress which it says werent apparent. 
And although Mr S has said that Drafty should have done more here he hasnt said, or 
provided any further information about, what Drafty wouldve seen if he had looked into his 
circumstances more closely. 
I also havent seen any further information that shows its likely Drafty was made aware of 
any financial problems Mr S mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate his circumstances further. So I think it was reasonable for Drafty to rely on the 
information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Drafty did for the first two credit 
limit increases were proportionate. And I think its decisions to approve these increases was 
reasonable.
Putting things right
Drafty shouldnt have given Mr S loans from 3 November 2018 onwards.
If Drafty has sold the outstanding debts Drafty should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Drafty is not able to buy the debts back then Drafty should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.A) Drafty should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards interest, 
fees and charges on all the drawdowns without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything it has already refunded.
B) Drafty should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr S 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Drafty should remove all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr S as though they had been repayments of the principal. If 
this results in Mr S having made overpayments then Drafty should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Drafty should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr S. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Drafty should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr S. Drafty shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Drafty has already written-off.
E) Drafty should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr S credit file in relation to 
any lending after 3 November 2018. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to deduct tax from this interest. Drafty should give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax Drafty has deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr S complaint. 
Gain Credit LLC should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman