DRN-3973164
The complaint
Mr R complains about how Vitality Health Limited dealt with a claim against his private 
medical insurance plan.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in 2021, Mr R took out private medical insurance with Vitality. 
The plan renewed in April each year. Mr Rs hospital option under the plan was  
Consultant Select, which meant that Mr R needed to contact Vitality before having 
treatment so that it could arrange for him to see a consultant on its panel. Only treatment 
authorised in advance is covered. 
In March 2022, Mr R saw a consultant eye surgeon, Mr M. On 7 April 2022, Mr R phoned 
Vitality about a claim for bilateral cataract surgery scheduled for 5 May 2022, with Mr M. 
Vitality said that it was happy to authorise his claim. It said that as the claim was within 
the first 12 months of Mr Rs plan, it required information from Mr R and his GP, but it 
was more than sure that everything would be fine.
On 26 April 2022, Mr R sent Vitality the information from his GP. On 28 April 2022, he 
called Vitality to see if it had reviewed the information. Vitality said that it hadnt done so 
and that it was currently working on e-mails received on 22 April 2022. It said that it was 
likely that it could revert to him the following Tuesday - which was 3 May 2022. Mr R 
says that Vitality told him to pay Mr M directly. Ill refer to that in more detail below. 
On 28 April 2022, Mr R paid for the surgery with Mr M. Soon after hed done so, Vitality 
contacted Mr R again and said that it doesnt recognise Mr M. It said that it still works 
with the hospital Mr M operates in, but authorisation would have been for another 
consultant there. Mr R wasnt happy about that and asked about cancelling his plan. On 
29 April 2022, Vitality assessed Mr Rs claim. 
On 5 May 2022, Mr R had the operation with Mr M. He subsequently pursued his 
complaint. 
Vitality accepts that in the initial call on 7 April 2022, it should have told Mr R that it 
doesnt recognise Mr M and offered him alternative consultants. It says that on             
28 April 2022  one week before his planned surgery - it told Mr R that treatment with   
Mr M wasnt covered and offered alternative consultants, but Mr R said he wanted to 
remain with Mr M. Vitality offered Mr R compensation of £250 in relation to its service 
failures. 
Mr R says that if Vitality had told him during his first call on 7 April 2022 that it would not 
cover his claim for surgery with Mr M, he would have chosen an alternative course of 
action. He wants Vitality to settle his claim. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Vitality had 
done enough to put matters right. The investigator said that Mr Rs plan provides that 
treatment by a provider it doesnt recognise isnt covered. He said that Vitality had 
declined the claim in accordance with the terms of the plan. But the investigator said that 
Vitality made a mistake in failing to tell Mr R on two occasions that his claim for 
treatment by Mr M wouldnt be covered.  
The investigator said that Vitalitys errors hadnt caused Mr R financial loss. Thats 
because he thought that Mr R would have proceeded with the treatment by Mr M even if 
Vitality hadnt made the errors. He thought that Vitalitys offer of compensation of £250 
was insufficient and recommended compensation of £350 in relation to Mr Rs distress 
and inconvenience. 
Vitality accepted the investigators recommendation, but Mr R didnt. He said, in 
summary, that he was aware of the terms of the plan, so he phoned Vitality to ask if it 
covered treatment by Mr M. It said yes and later told him to pay Mr M directly and claim 
it back. After hed paid Mr M, Vitality said that the treatment by Mr M wasnt covered and 
didnt offer alternatives. He asked for a manager or supervisor to call him back, but he 
didnt receive a call. So, no one at Vitality suggested that he ask for a refund from Mr M. 
Mr R says that he didnt ask Mr M for a refund as the operation was days away and he 
didnt think hed get his money back. 
Mr R didnt think that Vitalitys offer of £250 or the investigators recommendation of £350 
was sufficient. He said that if hed received treatment from a specialist recognised by 
Vitality, it would have paid at least £6,000 for his claim. 
Mr R reiterated that if Vitality had said from the outset that it didnt recognise Mr M he 
may well have changed consultant, as he had time to satisfy himself about alternative 
consultants recognised by Vitality. He said that he paid for treatment with Mr M, as thats 
what Vitality told him to do. 
Mr R asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the plan. Subject to the plans terms and 
conditions, Mr Rs has cover for eligible treatment. There are various exclusions, the relevant 
one for the purposes of this complaint is as follows:
EXCLUSIONS  WHATS NOT COVERED
Below weve set out the exclusions that apply to this section of your plan.[]
[]
TREATMENTS AND TESTS
We will not pay for the following treatments:
[]
any treatment provided by, or undertaken whilst under the care of, a consultant, 
therapist or complementary medicine practitioner or other clinician who is not 
recognised by us for the treatment being provided. []
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Vitality has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im upholding Mr Rs  
complaint because I dont think that Vitality treated him fairly or reasonably, but I dont think 
that means that Vitality is obliged to reimburse Mr R for excluded treatment. I say that 
because: 
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions. The onus is on the consumer to show that the claim falls under one of 
the agreed areas of cover. If the event is covered in principle but is declined on the 
basis of an exclusion the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion 
applies.
Vitality didnt recognise Mr M at the time of Mr Rs claim. So, it acted in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the plan when it told Mr R that it didnt recognise 
Mr M. But thats not the end of the matter as its common ground that Vitality made 
errors in that it failed to tell Mr R during his initial call on 7 April 2022 and in the first 
of two calls on 28 April 2022 that it didnt recognise his consultant, Mr M. When 
mistakes like this happen, we look at the effect of the error on the individual. 
Ive listened to the recordings of the relevant phone calls between Mr R and 
Vitality. Based on what Ive seen and heard, I think, on balance, that if Vitality had 
set out the true position at the outset, Mr R would have wanted to pursue treatment 
with Mr M in any event. In Mr Rs first call to Vitality on 7 April 2022, he said words 
to the effect that Mr M was the best in his field and if you are going to have eye 
surgery, you want the best consultant in the country. 
In the second phone call of 28 April 2022 - when Vitality told Mr R that it didnt 
recognise Mr M but worked with other consultants at the same hospital - Mr R said 
that if he was going to have eye surgery he was going to do it with the best 
consultant in the country, not someone recommended by Vitality. He said that  
other consultants may not be as good as Mr M. Thats consistent with his view on  
7 April 2022. It seems to me that Mr R didnt want to pursue treatment with another 
consultant. Thats what Mr R said in his complaint to Vitality. Im conscious that by the time Vitality set out the true position to Mr R, he had 
already paid for his surgery with Mr M. Mr R says that Vitality told him to pay Mr M 
directly and claim it back. But it was Mr R who said that he couldnt wait for Vitality 
to assess his claim and that he would have to pay for the surgery himself. Vitality 
told Mr R to keep receipts and proof of payment and, as long as it can support the 
claim, it would look at reimbursement. l appreciate that Mr R was concerned about 
possibly waiting until two days before his scheduled surgery for approval by Vitality, 
but Vitality didnt tell him to pay Mr M, then seek reimbursement. 
When Vitality told Mr R, correctly, that it didnt recognise Mr M it told him that it 
recognised the hospital that Mr M operated in and would have authorised other 
consultants there. So, whilst Vitality didnt offer names of consultants it recognised 
it said that there would be alternatives. 
In the particular circumstances here, I dont think that Vitality was at fault in failing 
to suggest to Mr R that he ask for a refund from Mr M. It was clear from the content 
and tone of Vitalitys conversations with Mr R that he wanted to pursue treatment 
with Mr M. 
Mr R is right to say that if Vitality had authorised treatment with a consultant it 
recognised, it would have settled that claim. But in the particular circumstances of 
this case, I dont think that means that Vitality should pay Mr Rs claim up to the 
value of the amount it would have paid if he had treatment with a recognised 
consultant. Ill explain why.
Mr Rs plan doesnt provide for settlement of a claim for treatment by an 
unrecognised consultant up to the value of a claim for treatment by a recognised 
consultant. 
There was a calendar week - four working days, deducting the weekend and bank 
holiday - between Mr R being made aware of the true position and his planned 
surgery. I think that there was time for alternative arrangements to be made so that 
Mr Rs claim was within the terms and conditions of his plan. That may have 
delayed the surgery, but Mr Ms report of 23 March 2022 doesnt indicate that Mr R 
required urgent surgery. So, it seems to me that Vitality could have arranged 
treatment with a consultant on its panel, in accordance with the plan terms and 
conditions. As Ive said above, I dont think that Mr R wanted to pursue treatment 
with another consultant. I dont think that there are any grounds on which I can 
fairly direct Vitality to settle a claim for treatment thats excluded in the plan. 
Mr R was no doubt concerned to learn that his planned treatment wasnt covered 
by his plan at what was already a worrying time. Considering everything, I think 
that compensation of £350 is fair and reasonable in this case. In reaching that 
view, Ive taken into account the nature, extent and duration of Mr Rs distress and 
inconvenience caused by Vitalitys errors in this case. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Vitality should pay Mr R compensation of £350 in relation to his 
distress and inconvenience. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Vitality Health Limited should take the steps 
Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman