DRN-2806473
The complaint
Mr P complains that Hoist Finance UK Limited has harassed him when contacting him about 
an outstanding debt and has failed to provide evidence that the amount it is pursuing is 
correct. 
What happened
Hoist purchased a debt from another business in January 2019 which it understood Mr P 
was responsible for repaying. The debt was accrued on a credit card with another lender.
Hoist and its representative contacted Mr P to request payment. The balance it is attempting 
to recover is approximately £438. Mr P disputed the balance being claimed. He said he 
understood he only owed approximately £280 to the previous lender. He asked for proof of 
the balance being claimed  including a breakdown of how it was accrued.
Hoist provided Mr P a closing statement for the credit card account, from the previous 
lender, as evidence of the amount being claimed.
Mr P still disputed the balance owed. He said hed repay the £280 he thought he owed in 
instalments. 
Hoist continued to pursue the full balance. Mr P complained about this. He said Hoist hadnt 
provided a breakdown of the amount owed so he felt it had no right to pursue him for the 
balance it was claiming. He also said Hoist had harassed him about repaying the balance 
and that the information it was reporting to credit reference agencies was incorrect.
Hoist said it hadnt done anything wrong. It said that the closing statement from the original 
lender was evidence of the balance it was seeking  and if Mr P wanted any further 
breakdown of that balance, hed need to contact the original lender directly. It also didnt 
agree it had harassed Mr P or that the information recorded with credit reference agencies 
was incorrect.
Unhappy with this response, Mr P asked our service to look into his complaint. One of our 
investigators considered matters but didnt think Hoist had done anything wrong. He said he 
felt Hoist had provided sufficient evidence, in the form of the closing statement from the 
original lender, of the balance being pursued. And as Mr P had not provided any evidence to 
support that a lower balance was owed  such as proof of repayments made to reduce the 
balance  he felt Hoist hadnt made a mistake by requesting the amount it was claiming. He 
also didnt think Hoist had done anything wrong by reporting to credit reference agencies 
that this amount was still outstanding. And he didnt think he could fairly say, from what hed 
seen, that Hoist had harassed Mr P. 
Mr P did not agree with the investigators opinion as he felt Hoist was not complying with its 
legal and regulatory requirements. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hoist purchased the debt from a separate business in 2019. The information provided to 
Hoist at the time indicated that the account belonged to, and a debt was owed by, Mr P. I 
dont therefore think that Hoist has done anything wrong by pursuing repayment of the 
outstanding balance or by contacting Mr P about this.
Mr P disputes the amount owed and says Hoist is required to provide a breakdown of how 
this balance came about. But I think Hoist has done what was required of it. It has provided 
Mr P and our service a closing statement for the credit card from July 2018 from the original 
lender. This showed the outstanding balance at the time the account was closed and 
charged off. And the amount being pursued by Hoist is slightly lower than the balance shown 
as outstanding. It directed Mr P to contact the lender if he felt this information was incorrect. 
And I dont think that was unreasonable.
Ive also seen credit card statements from December 2016 to June 2018, showing how this 
balance accrued and the recorded repayments made. Ive included a copy of these 
statements with my decision as it isnt clear if these have previously been provided to Mr P 
by Hoist. But even if they werent, as I think the closing statement it did provide was enough 
to show why it was claiming the balance it was, I dont think it was necessarily required to 
provide these statements previously. Although I appreciate it wouldve been helpful if it had.
Mr P hasnt provided any evidence to show that additional repayments were made or that 
the balance should be lower (in the region of £280 as he says) than that recorded by the 
original lender and subsequently sold to Hoist  as shown on the monthly and closing 
account statement. So, based on what Ive seen I dont think Hoist has done anything wrong 
by asking for repayment of the balance it has. And I think the information provided to Mr P 
support this amount being owed, the closing account statement from the previous lender, 
was clear and fair. I know Mr P does not agree but I dont think Hoist was required to do 
anything more when he queried this.
Turning to the information recorded on Mr Ps credit file, I understand that the credit card 
account was recorded as having defaulted by the original lender, at the time the balance was 
charged off at the end of June 2018. Hoist wasnt responsible for this information having 
been recorded  this was the responsibility of the original lender.
When Hoist purchased the debt, it became responsible for reporting whether the balance 
had been repaid or satisfied or if agreements were in place. Hoist has said that no 
repayments have been made by Mr P to it. This doesnt seem to be disputed by Mr P. And I 
havent seen anything to show otherwise. With that in mind, I dont think Hoist has done 
anything wrong by continuing to report the balance as outstanding. And as Ive already said I 
think the balance Hoist has pursued, and subsequently recorded, appears to be correct.
Mr P says Hoist has harassed him about the debt. He has mentioned receiving emails every 
day for several days in October 2019  and has provided evidence of this. Hoist has 
provided copies of its contact logs, showing when it sent emails to Mr P and its attempts to 
contact him.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Hoist has acted unreasonably. I can see the frequency 
with which it contacted Mr P did increase in October 2019. But I dont think I agree that Hoist 
was harassing him. 
The notes Ive seen indicate that this was after quite substantial amounts of previous 
communication. And after Hoist told him it felt it had evidenced that a debt was due. At that point there was no repayment plan in place. And given a balance was outstanding and Hoist 
felt Mr P was responsible for this, I dont think it is unreasonable that it attempted to contact 
him to request this. I dont think the frequency and level of contact was unreasonable in the 
circumstances.
I also havent seen anything that leads me to think the level of contact attempted by Hoist at 
any other stage was unreasonable. So overall, I dont think Hoist has done anything wrong 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman