DRN-3191449
The complaint
Mr P has complained American Express Services Europe Limited wont refund him for a 
transaction he didnt authorise in 2019.
What happened
In 2019 Mr P completed a business trip abroad. Afterwards he noticed that his Amex card 
had been charged with the hotel costs for the trip. These totalled £1,108.54 plus foreign 
exchange costs. He complained to Amex as hed not authorised this transaction to be made 
with his Amex card.
The travel company booking the trip on behalf of Mr Ps employer (who Ill call G) used the 
Amex card it had on file. This was Mr Ps personal card. Amex didnt believe this was a 
dispute they should get involved in. They felt Mr P could better resolve this through 
discussions with G.
Mr P brought his complaint to our service. He didnt believe Amex had any authority to debit 
him just because a company happened to have kept his card details on file.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence provided by Amex. This showed the correct card 
details had been used to authenticate the transaction. Overall he couldnt be sure exactly 
what had happened between Mr P, G and the travel company so he wasnt going to ask 
Amex to do anything further.
In the meantime Mr P confirmed he and Amex had come to a financial settlement about his 
now-closed Amex account. He remained unhappy with the conclusion of his complaint. An 
ombudsman has been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ps complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the PSRs). These primarily require banks to refund customers if they 
didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but nothing that 
specifically seems relevant in Mr Ps case.
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by Amex and Mr P. 
Ive also noted the detail in our investigators view of 1 October 2021 but feel no need to 
rerun some of the arguments made there. The view also contained a run-down of the 
disputed transaction. I dont intend to repeat this detail either. 
During his final submissions with our service, Mr P specifically requested conversations 
between him and the investigator not to be disclosed to me. However when Mr P first came 
to our service, he signed a declaration which allows his conversations to be recorded and 
shared for case-specific purposes. Ive not listened to those conversations but I have been 
able to review Mr Ps emails to our service.
I also want to reassure Mr P that just because the travel company had retained his card 
details doesnt mean they had his specific authority to process this transaction. In fact I was 
inclined to think they didnt.  
The email instruction about the hotel bookings came from someone working at G. They also 
booked two other rooms for other individuals (also working for G) to stay at the same hotel 
as Mr P, and at the same time. However there were no specific payment instructions on this 
email which leads me to think that the travel company may have held card details for all 
three individuals already and arranged to charge those cards.
However whilst the travel company may not have had Mr Ps specific authority to use his 
Amex card for payment, Ive not been able to get to the bottom of the contractual 
arrangements between Mr P and G. I know Mr P says payment for this trip should have been 
made by G but Mr P hasnt been keen to share any further details with us about his working 
arrangements with G. Or even explain why hes not been able to get G to reimburse him for 
what he tells us was a work trip (or even whether that is the case).
It seems to me that even if there was no authority for the payment itself, there are further 
issues around this payment. And because of this I wont be asking Amex to do anything 
further.
I know Mr P has come to a financial settlement with Amex.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ps complaint against 
American Express Services Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman