DRN-2616386
The complaint
Mr M complains that HiFX Europe Limited has not given him evidence of its costs for a 
cancelled transaction.
What happened
Mr M says he asked HiFX to cancel an agreed transaction in June 2019. He says HiFX 
asked him to pay just over £1,730 for its losses but hasnt provided him with any evidence of 
the actual loss. Mr M says he is prepared to pay any reasonable actual costs and says HiFX 
ought to be able to provide independent evidence of any trading loss.
HiFX says it agreed to buy currency for £163,000 and following the cancellation reversed the 
transaction resulting in a loss of £1,730.19. It says Mr M agreed to the contract terms and 
conditions in which it makes clear that a customer will be liable for such losses.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and says there is no evidence HiFX actually bought the 
currency and questions if it would before receiving a customers money. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. In summary the investigator thought HiFX had 
acted in line with agreed terms and conditions and had provided evidence that the 
transactions had been completed. The investigator thought HiFX had explained why it 
couldnt provide any further information about the transaction as it carried them out in bulk.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and in summary says there is no independent evidence from 
a bank or clearing house about his transaction. And maintains that HiFX agreed to carry out 
the transaction but didnt actually perform it as it was cancelled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that HiFX has dealt fairly with this complaint 
and I dont require it to do anything further in the circumstances of it. I appreciate Mr M will 
be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly he feels about whats taken 
place.
Im satisfied that Mr M entered into an agreement with HiFX on 2 June 2019 and in doing so 
agreed to the transaction terms and conditions. And that Mr M cancelled the contract on 18 
June 2019. I can see that in those circumstances HiFX makes clear a customer (Mr M) is 
liable for any such losses. I appreciate that Mr M accepts that he is liable for any losses but 
would like definitive evidence of those losses. So, I make clear that I dont think HiFX has 
acted unfairly or made a mistake by asking Mr M to pay the costs involved.
The key issue is the evidence of the losses. I can see that HiFX has provided transaction 
details to Mr M and us. Those documents provide the details of the transactions and explain 
the loss HiFX now claims from Mr M. Im satisfied that HiFX has told us it carried out those 
transactions and says they would have taken place as part of far larger bulk transactions and 
so cant provide any further evidence they took place. I find that HiFX has fairly provided Mr 
M with as much information and evidence that it can.
I make clear to Mr M that its not our role to decide if a contract is enforceable and it would 
be for a court to decide that. I think that is the core of this complaint. Im satisfied that HiFX 
has provided sufficient and reasonable evidence of the losses it suffered. It follows that I 
dont think HiFX has acted unfairly or made a mistake by asking Mr M to pay that loss in line 
with agreed account terms and conditions. Mr M has made clear that he will not pay that 
amount without further evidence, and so I think this brings an end to what we in trying to 
resolve this dispute informally can do. And it likely that this dispute will have to be decided 
upon by a court.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman