DRN-4085456
The complaint
Mr G complains National Westminster Bank Plc havent returned funds which belong to him. 
He refuses to complete their funds release form, and says they are in breach of the law. He 
wants his money returned and compensation.
What happened
The background facts to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
- Mr G says NatWest are asking him to agree a new contract by completing their funds 
release form, which he isnt prepared to do. But after considering all the information 
available to me, including NatWests reasons for terminating its relationship with Mr 
G, Im satisfied their requirement is reasonable. Mr G may want to understand those 
reasons, but NatWest isnt obliged to reveal them.
- Mr G believes the law requires NatWest to release his funds. He referenced the 
National Crime Agency (NCA) and time limits which apply to them on several 
occasions. He has also provided a screen shot from a solicitor firms website. 
I have carefully considered what hes said. He appears to be referring to the 
moratorium period applicable to the NCA and its responsibilities. But I dont find what 
he has referred to obligates NatWest to release his funds after a set period of time. 
Neither do I find there is a law which sets out the length of time a bank can hold on to 
funds. I have read the screenshot he sent of a solicitors website, but it's not for me to 
comment on the opinion of a third party or to know what source(s) informed what 
they published.
- Banks can and do sometimes hold on to funds for periods of time. The reasonability 
of their actions depends on the circumstances of each situation. And, they also have 
important due diligence responsibilities to carry out which means they institute 
procedures to comply with them. Im satisfied in the circumstances of Mr Gs 
complaint that NatWest dont need to release his funds until he has completed their 
funds release form and procedure satisfactorily. I find they have a reasonable basis 
to require him to do this before they release his funds.
- Mr G said he went into branch with identification but was not allowed to withdraw his 
funds. NatWest say they have no record of his attendance, and if he had gone to a 
branch their usual process is for the branch to call through to the funds release team 
for approval. Mr G may have gone to a branch and NatWest failed to follow their 
process, but its also possible he didnt. So, in the absence of more persuasive 
information, I cant make a reliable conclusion either way on this point.
Based on the reasons Ive given above; Im not directing NatWest to release the funds 
theyre holding to Mr G or to pay him compensation.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman