DRN-3000715
Complaint
Mrs B says that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly added overdraft charges 
to her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
Background
Mrs B has also complained about the interest and charges on her credit card. But weve 
already explained that were looking at that complaint separately. And this complaint only 
concerns the charges on Mrs Bs overdraft.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Bs concerns and concluded that Halifax hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Mrs B unfairly. So she didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mrs B disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Halifax charged Mrs B over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Halifaxs charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mrs B if it applied these interest, fees and charges to her 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been 
aware Mrs B was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were 
instances where Halifax didnt treat Mrs B fairly and reasonably. 
It isnt in dispute that Mrs B didnt get in touch with Halifax to explain she was struggling until 
July 2019. So Im satisfied that Halifax wasnt actually aware of these matters until this point. 
And when it was made aware, it suspended the fees for a number of months. This was to 
provide Mrs B with some breathing space to come to a more long-term arrangement to repay 
what she owed. I think that this means Halifax did exercise forbearance and due 
consideration, in line with its regulatory obligations and so Im satisfied that Halifax did 
provide appropriate assistance once it was notified of Mrs Bs change in circumstances. 
Nonetheless, this isnt the end of the matter as it doesnt automatically mean that Halifax 
treated Mrs B fairly and reasonably. After all bearing in mind Halifaxs responsibility to 
monitor Mrs Bs account and its renewal of the overdraft over the years, it may still be the 
case that Halifax ought to have realised Mrs B were in difficulty before being told this. So Ive 
also thought about whether Halifax ought to have realised Mrs B was struggling and acted 
sooner. 
Ive looked through Mrs Bs statements. However, I cant see that Halifax ought reasonably 
to have been aware Mrs B was struggling and taken corrective measures in relation to her 
overdraft. Mrs B may argue the regular use of her overdraft was in itself an indication that 
she was struggling. But her limit was relatively small. And the account was in receipt of 
regular funds and it was in credit for reasonable periods prior to all of the renewals. 
So I think that it wasnt unreasonable for Halifax to conclude there was a reasonable 
prospect of the overdraft sustainably being repaid, within a reasonable period of time at this 
stage. Equally, while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mrs B 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions being made from the account too. 
I accept that all of these things in themselves (or even taken together) dont mean that          
Mrs B wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. However, the question I have to consider here 
is not whether Mrs B was in financial difficulty, rather its whether Halifax ought to have 
realised this before July 2019 and stepped in to take corrective action on the overdraft 
facility. 
I dont think thats the case here as, in my view, there isnt anything in Mrs Bs account 
transactions in themselves which ought to have prompted Halifax to have realised this, in the 
absence of her asking for help. And taking corrective action on such a small facility in these 
circumstances would have, in my view, been disproportionate bearing in mind the 
implications and consequences of such actions being taken. 
So, in these circumstances, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Halifax to proceed with 
the interest, fees and charges it added. And I also dont think that Halifax unfairly charged 
Mrs B in circumstances where it ought to have realised that she may have been 
experiencing financial difficulty.
Having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I 
realise that this will be very disappointing for Mrs B  especially as its taken some time for 
her case to reach this stage. But I hope that shell understand the reasons for my decision 
and at least feel that her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman