DRN-1684435
The complaint
Mr C complains that an early settlement figure provided by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance was incorrect.
What happened
Mr C entered into a finance agreement with MBFS in May 2019 for a term of three years. 
The amount of credit borrowed was £13,000 and the monthly repayments were £429.68.
The finance agreement allowed Mr C to make full or partial settlement at any time. Mr C 
made a partial settlement of £10,000 but disagreed with the new monthly instalments 
calculated by MBFS.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service. Hes unhappy that there are charges for early 
settlement which werent explained to him at the point of supply. He also says he was told by 
the supplying dealer that there would be no additional charges if he made a partial 
settlement, and that there is nothing in the finance agreement about paying additional 
interest in the event of early settlement.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
that there had been a misrepresentation. He also said that MBFS had acted in compliance 
with the relevant legislation in calculating the early settlement. 
Mr C didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr C feels that hes been misled and that this has led to him paying additional 
interest. I know that it will disappoint Mr C, but I agree with the investigators view. Ill explain 
why.
Ive no reason to think that the settlement calculation carried out by MBFS is incorrect. Its my 
understanding that Mr C isnt challenging the calculation itself, but rather the fact that hes 
been charged additional interest.
Ive looked at the finance agreement. This states at the top that it is regulated by The 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA 1974).
The CCA 1974 covers several areas of consumer credit, including the content and form of 
credit agreements and the procedures relating to default, termination and early settlement.
In relation to early settlement, the CCA 1974 says that settlement figures should be 
calculated using the rules set out in The Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 
2004. These regulations say that the settlement date is 28 days after receipt of the 
settlement request. They allow the creditor (if the loan is for more than a year) to defer the 
settlement date by 30 days. So, this explains the 58 days interest Mr C is unhappy about.
The regulations arent explicitly referred to in the finance agreement and I understand Mr Cs 
concerns in this respect. But theres a balance to be struck between defining and explaining 
every term of a contract and keeping a contract to a reasonable length.
Ive considered Mr Cs comments about what he was told by the dealership. There are no 
notes of these discussions and because I wasnt present, I cant be certain of exactly what 
was said. In order to find that theres been a misrepresentation here, I would need to be 
satisfied that the dealership made an untrue statement of fact which induced Mr C to enter 
into the agreement. I would also need to be persuaded that the untrue statement of fact was 
the only, or the main reason why Mr C entered into the agreement. 
Based on the available evidence, Im unable to conclude that theres been a 
misrepresentation. Even if the dealership told Mr C that there would be no additional charges 
for early settlement, I dont think such a  statement was untrue. The 58 days interest about 
which Mr C complains is not an additional charge. Its a reduction in the overall rebate of 
interest. If Mr C hadnt settled the agreement early, he wouldve paid more interest. 
Taking everything into consideration, Im unable to ask MBFS to refund 58 days interest, 
because this has been calculated in accordance with the relevant regulation. Im not 
persuaded that theres been a misrepresentation, so I wont be asking MBFS to do anything 
further.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman