DRN-3364820
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to refund a number of transactions that he
didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr S has said that he was visiting family on an extended trip abroad when he noticed
messages from Barclays about the funds available in his account. When he examined his
statements, he saw that multiple transactions had been made at Automated Teller Machines
(ATM) in the same country he was staying in and one larger payment had been taken from a
car hire business Ill refer to as G. The payment to G had taken his account into an
unarranged overdraft.
Mr Ss card was cancelled by Barclays and when Mr S returned from abroad, he contacted
them about his account and explained that he didnt recognise a large number of
transactions at the ATMs and the large payment to G. Barclays looked into the issue and Mr
S told them he still had the card in his possession and hadnt revealed the Personal
Identification Number (PIN) number to anyone. He said he was still abroad when the
payment to G was made.
Barclays believed Mr S was responsible for all the transactions because he still had his card
in his possession and no-one else knew the PIN number. They confirmed that the payment
to G was taken by them because Mr S had an agreement with them related to a previous car
hire and was based on an outstanding invoice for damage caused to the vehicle.
Mr S continued to deny all the transactions and told Barclays that hed already paid G for the
damage. Barclays obtained evidence from G and decided that they couldnt challenge the
transaction because there was no likelihood of a successful chargeback request.
Mr S complained about the situation but Barclays didnt change their position. Mr S brought
his complaint to our service for an independent review and it was looked into by one of our
investigators. Barclays sent us their file and within the paperwork was a note that Barclays
had previously challenged the attempt by G to take payment for the outstanding invoice.
Our investigator thought that it was reasonable for Barclays to hold Mr S liable for all the
transactions. She thought that it was unlikely anyone else was involved with the ATM
withdrawals because Mr S still had his card and hadnt told anyone his PIN, although he had
written the PIN down and stored it in his phone  but the phone hadnt been taken by
anyone. Our investigator thought the evidence supplied by G was sufficient for Barclays to
hold Mr S liable for the larger transaction and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr S disagreed with the outcome and complained that Barclays shouldnt have let the
payment to G go ahead because he had no funds in the account and no overdraft. He
continued to deny the payments were made by him.
I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two aspects to this complaint, the series of ATM withdrawals whilst Mr S was
abroad, and the payment taken by G. A second complaint was raised by Mr S relating to a
separate issue and Ill only be dealing with the disputed transactions in this decision.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The
basic position is that Barclays can hold Mr S liable for the disputed payments if the evidence
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them.
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical evidence and in this case,
Barclays have supplied evidence that shows the genuine card and PIN were used to make
the ATM transactions and the appropriate card details were entered for the payment to G.
Im satisfied that the evidence shows all the disputed transactions were authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Barclays and Mr S agreed to use the card for
transactions. For example, when using the card and PIN together or the card details,
Barclays agree to accept that this is a legitimate payment instruction made by the cardholder
or another approved user and make the payment on their behalf. The ATM transactions in
this case used the genuine card and the correct PIN and the payment to G used the correct
card details, so Im satisfied that consent was given, and the disputed transactions were
authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for Barclays to hold
Mr S responsible, for example if the card or card details were used without his permission.
ATM disputed transactions.
Mr S has said that he was visiting abroad for about four months and he didnt use his card to
withdraw any funds. The statements for his Barclays account show that on several
occasions he received money from friends into his account, and these accounted for the
majority of the funds used to make the withdrawals. Mr S still had his card with him at the
time of the disputed transactions and told us that he hadnt told anyone the PIN number. He
said that he was generally with family but did do some travelling. He said that his PIN
number was written down in his phone, but other people didnt have access to it.
So, when Ive examined the circumstances of these withdrawals, they were made with Mr
Ss genuine card and correct PIN number. The type of card used by Mr S has a chip in it and
its generally accepted by the banking industry and our service that the chip on a modern
debit card cant be cloned or copied. What that means here is that Im satisfied Mr Ss
genuine card was used to make the withdrawals.
Ive thought about the possibility of an unknown third party using the card to make the
withdrawals and in order to do that, they would have had to take the card, find the PIN
number on Mr Ss phone and use it without being detected when they put it back in Mr Ss
belongings. And whilst its possible this could have happened; I dont think its the likely
explanation. The transactions took place over a period of time and this would entail a third
party taking and replacing the card on several occasions without Mr S realising. This seems
to be a risky way to use his card and Id question why someone would take the risk of
replacing it when they could just continue to use it.
Mr S had received funds into his account once he was abroad and together with a small
balance already in the account, the money received funded these withdrawals. Some of
these funds were paid into the account when it had a very small balance, which allowed the
remaining ATM transactions to be made. The ATM transactions stopped once the account
effectively reached a zero balance. So, whoever was using the account, timed thewithdrawals to coincide with incoming payments and stopped once it reached zero and didnt
make any further withdrawals. This would indicate that the user of the card knew there was
money in the account and that top up funds had been received.
There were no further attempts to use the card and this, I think, is indicative that the user
knew the balance and that it was now empty. When Ive taken all the facts into account,
especially the retention of the card by Mr S and that he hadnt told anyone the PIN number,
coupled with the use of the account when new funds had arrived  I think it was more likely
than not that Mr S was responsible for these transactions and it was reasonable for Barclays
to hold him liable for them. It follows that I dont intend to uphold this part of the complaint.
Transaction to G.
Once Mr Ss account reached a very small positive balance (less than two pounds), the
transaction was made by G and this had the effect of taking the account into an unarranged
overdraft. Mr S told Barclays that hed already settled this invoice directly with G, but
Barclays received evidence from G that the invoice remained outstanding. G also sent a
copy of the agreement where Mr S had accepted the additional charges.
G used a provision within the payment scheme they were part of that allowed them to push
the payment through, despite their being no funds in the account. Barclays were unable to
prevent this transaction at the time. But, Barclays had already challenged this transaction the
previous year when Mr S had earlier disputed it. Barclays letter to G at the time explained
that G hadnt provided proof of the transaction and they werent going to take the payment
from Mr Ss account.
When G pushed through the payment on this occasion, they provided evidence to Barclays
and it was this evidence that persuaded them not to challenge the payment, despite Mr S
explaining that hed already settled the amount.
Mr S was able to supply copies of accounts he held with another bank that showed the
disputed payment that G took from Barclays had already been paid. The statements show
that G took the payment and then it was temporarily refunded to Mr S. Some months later, in
March 2019, the amount was redebited again. From the information supplied by Mr S, it
appears that the outstanding amount was already settled with G. Unfortunately, weve not
been able to confirm what happened directly with G, despite repeated attempts to ask for
this information.
So, from the evidence Ive been able to examine, the invoice was already settled with G
when they took it again from Mr Ss Barclays account. Barclays decision not to pursue the
charge resulted in Mr S losing the opportunity to challenge G about it. If Barclays had
opened a new chargeback, they would presumably have ended with the same information
we received and been able to pass this back to G and settle the matter directly with them.
Their decision not to pursue this resulted in an unfair outcome for Mr S. If, as the statements
show, the matter had already been settled, Mr Ss account wouldnt have been overdrawn.
So, Im intending to uphold this part of the complaint and Ill be instructing Barclays to refund
Mr S with the payment taken by G, remove any charges and/or interest added to the account
as a result of the payment to G, ensure that financial reporting to the credit reference
agencies is updated to accurately reflect the accounts history and pay Mr S £100 for the
stress and worry caused to him.
I invited Mr S and Barclays to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me 
to consider before issuing my final decision. Mr S accepted my provisional decision but thought he should receive a higher amount in 
compensation.
Barclays didnt fully accept it and responded:
Mr S reported the transaction with G as fraud and failed to respond to Barclays 
request for more information within the 10-day timeframe set out in their letter to him 
on 23/04/21. 
Barclays were out of time to pursue a chargeback because of the lack of response 
from Mr S.
Mr S responded about six weeks after this letter was sent.
Barclays contacted G outside the chargeback process and received evidence of the 
invoice related to the payment that G had taken from Mr Ss account.
Barclays are unable to raise a second chargeback for the same dispute.
Even if Mr S had responded within the timeframes, the evidence from G was 
compelling  so its highly unlikely any chargeback wouldve been successful.
Barclays havent been able to verify Mr Ss claim that hed already settled this 
invoice.
The transaction was agreed to by Mr S when he signed his contract with G.
Theres a genuine relationship between Mr S and G  this matter is better settled 
between them directly.
The transaction isnt fraud.
Barclays were asked to comment on a note in their records from 30/04/21 where Mr S 
contacted them to tell them he was having problems scanning his evidence and was 
advised:
  Advised we can always relog fraud case if we do not receive them on time.
Barclays responded that Mr S was wrongly advised when he was told this. They continued to 
maintain that it wouldnt have adversely affected the outcome because the evidence from G 
was compelling and it wasnt fraud so wouldnt have been able to satisfy the specific criteria 
for a fraud chargeback.
Barclays went on to further comment:
If Mr S had evidence that hed paid twice for the invoice, then this would surely be 
an easy matter to settle between himself and G.
Barclays clarified that the transaction was pushed through by G and theres no 
evidence that G didnt follow the appropriate procedures when they did this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to adopt the outcome of my provisional complaint, that is to 
uphold it in part. Mr S agreed with my provisional decision, so I dont need to address the 
issue of the disputed ATM transactions any further. Ill explain my reasoning concerning the 
payment to G and address the additional points raised by Barclays.
Barclays have, to some extent, found themselves in the middle of a dispute between G and 
Mr S. G used processes available to them to push through the payment and relied on the authority theyd received from Mr S when he first signed a contract with them. G are able to 
push through transactions to recoup additional charges accrued from the contract.
But, the authorisation that Mr S agreed to wouldnt be applicable if the outstanding amount 
had been repaid earlier. Here, Mr Ss case has always been that hed already settled this 
invoice with G some time ago, but for reasons unknown, G thought it was still outstanding 
and pushed the charge through when Mr S updated his card details with them. Mr S 
explained that he regularly used G and had had multiple other contracts since the 
outstanding invoice had been paid, so couldnt understand why G acted in this way when it 
had already been paid. G have been approached by the Financial Ombudsman on several 
occasions to shed some light on what happened, but unfortunately theyve never responded 
to these requests.
So, the main question concerning this complaint is whether Mr S had already settled the 
outstanding invoice. Because if he had, then G wouldnt be able to rely on the authority they 
presented to Barclays to push through the transaction and later when they provided their 
evidence of the outstanding debt to Barclays. Mr Ss other bank supplied evidence that a 
payment matching the invoice amount was finally paid to G in March 2019, so I think this is 
reasonable evidence that the outstanding invoice amount was settled at that point. Its 
apparent that Mr S was disputing this payment when it first appeared a few years ago, which 
I think has led to a rather complex history concerning whether he settled it or not.
When G pushed the payment through, they were using the VISA rules to do so. I appreciate 
that Barclays had little control over this because the VISA rules allow such processes. But 
they also provide the chargeback system to dispute payments for various different issues, 
including what happened here, which is that the debt had already been settled by other 
means.
Barclays have argued that Mr S claimed the transaction was fraudulent and wouldnt have 
met the conditions required for such a chargeback on this basis. Whilst I agree that this was 
unlikely to be fraudulent, it was a dispute about a payment and I dont think an account 
holder, in this case Mr S, is required to know the specifics of the chargeback system in order 
to make a successful claim. Chargebacks are complicated and his bank, Barclays, are the 
appropriate experts to advise and represent Mr S. The fact that Mr S couched his dispute as 
a fraud isnt relevant to the fact that he disputed the payment.
Barclays wrote to Mr S and sought a declaration from him to pursue the chargeback. A few 
days later after receiving this, they told Mr S that they could re-log the issue because he was 
having problems presenting his evidence to them. I appreciate Barclays have since said this 
was an error, but Mr S was then under the impression that the timescales were somewhat 
flexible. I understand Barclays received some further information about six weeks later. At 
this point, the ability to process a chargeback may well have been compromised by the delay 
in receiving information, but because of Mr Ss understanding following the advice he was 
given by Barclays  I dont think its fair to hold Mr S responsible for the failure to process a 
chargeback.
Barclays have said that even if theyd launched the appropriate chargeback within the 
timescales, it was unlikely that it would have been successful because Gs evidence was 
compelling. Here, Barclays approached G outside the chargeback process to enquire about 
the details of the dispute but didnt go on to fully consider Mr Ss evidence. Gs contract 
appears to be persuasive when viewed on its own but becomes less compelling when seen 
against the evidence that the debt had already been repaid. Its true that the outcome of a 
chargeback cant be guaranteed, but whats happened here is that Mr S wasnt given the 
opportunity (whether thats by classing it as fraud/ mis-advising about timescales or just 
believing Gs information) to present evidence with an appropriate chargeback request, resulting in the unfair treatment of Mr Ss claim. 
Barclays commented that it should be a matter between Mr S and G and to an extent I 
agree. Mr S presented evidence that hed tried to deal with G to resolve the issue but was 
unsuccessful. It looks like it was far from easy and in such circumstances Mr S still had the 
option of approaching his bank to challenge the payment, which is what he did here. 
In my provisional decision I referred to an earlier dispute about the outstanding amount that 
was linked to Barclays. This was from an email sent in late 2018 and Barclays have 
explained they werent previously involved in any earlier dispute. Whilst the content of the 
email refers to the same outstanding amount G believed they were owed, theres no 
evidence that this was pursued by Barclays at the time and Ive not considered this as part of 
my examination.
Increased compensation
Mr S thought that the amount of compensation I recommended was too low. He explained 
that hed suffered stress throughout this whole period. Ive carefully considered the 
circumstances of the complaint and appreciate that Mr S has been left with this debt hanging 
over him. But, Im not persuaded to increase this amount and thats because whilst Barclays 
are the subject of this complaint, I cant ignore the role that G played here. 
Putting things right
In summary, I dont think that Mr Ss evidence was given sufficient consideration when he 
brought his claim to Barclays. They had the opportunity to pursue a chargeback, but for 
various reasons didnt, but they did seek information from G which led them to believe the 
evidence was compelling. I think this has led to a slight imbalance in how Mr S was treated 
and denied him the opportunity to argue his case through a chargeback. With the evidence 
that it had already been paid, I think the outcome stood a reasonable chance of success. As 
the outstanding amount had already been repaid, G couldnt continue to rely on the 
authorisation they presented to Barclays. So, if I wasnt upholding this complaint based on 
the way the chargeback was handled, Id still be likely to uphold it based on the evidence 
that it had already been settled and the authorisation was no longer applicable.
For the avoidance of any doubt, I dont uphold the disputed transactions claimed by Mr S 
related to ATM transactions made whilst abroad.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, in part, and instruct Barclays Bank UK Plc to:
Refund £818.00 to Mr S.
Remove any charges and / or interest applied to the account as a result of this 
charge.
Update reporting to the credit reference agencies to accurately reflect the accounts 
history.
Pay £100 to Mr S for the stress and worry caused by Barclays.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman