DRN-2916485
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold Miss L and Mr S 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss L and Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place about 25 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the original 
documents from the time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything that happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether its fair to 
rely fully on everything they remember. Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence 
when considering the case. 
Miss L and Mr S have said they always refused PPI and that this PPI was added without 
their agreement. 
However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence of it. As a general principle of fairness, where someone has said 
another person (or organisation) has done something wrong, there needs to be reasonable 
evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they 
didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago. 
And it would be more usual for the PPI to have been mentioned in the documents at the 
time. So I think its more likely this is what happened, and that the PPI was offered as a 
choice, even if Miss L and Mr S dont now remember it. But, overall, without stronger 
evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Miss L and Mr Ss consent. 
Miss L and Mr S have said theyve had five other complaints about PPI upheld by various 
companies which provided loans and store cards. They say that, for all of these, they had 
refused PPI, but it had then been added without their knowledge or consent; and that the 
companies had now accepted this. 
It would be quite surprising that so many companies had added PPI without Miss L and Mr S 
being aware of any of these. So its possible that their complaints on those were upheld for 
difference reasons. And I dont see it as strong evidence that Miss L and Mr S routinely 
refused to take PPI; nor, more specifically, that they refused to take PPI for this mortgage. 
As I explain below, Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have 
been mis-sold  but having done so, I dont think they apply. 
I think Bank of Scotland probably recommended the PPI to Miss L and Mr S, and this means 
we would judge its sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for Miss L and Mr Ss particular circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a 
recommendation would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Miss L and 
Mr Ss situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Miss L and Mr S were eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to 
make a claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Miss L and Mr S received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
Miss L and Mr S would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may 
have had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put 
Miss L and Mr S in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to 
long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Miss L and Mr S couldnt afford the PPI when 
they took it out; so it wasnt unsuitable in that way. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Miss L and 
Mr S would have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and a recommendation would have 
been suitable. It would then be up to Miss L and Mr S to decide whether they wanted to 
accept the recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have made 
a difference to whether Miss L and Mr S took the PPI. I say this because, in their 
circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
Overall, I dont have enough evidence to say the PPI was mis-sold.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman