DRN-4300478
The complaint
Mrs W complains to Co-op Funeral Plans Limited that a plan was set up without her 
knowledge and, having requested cancellation, she is being charged a cancellation fee. 
What happened
To summarise, in February 2023, Mrs W discovered a monthly payment to Co-op of £19.58 
leaving her account. She contacted Co-op and was told a funeral plan had been set up in 
June 2021. The plan was sold by another company, acting with Co-ops agreement. Mrs W 
said she wanted to cancel the plan. Co-op explained this was possible, but that she would 
be charged a cancellation fee of £250.  
Mrs W complained, but Co-op maintained its position, saying that to complete the setup of 
the funeral plan and direct debit she would have provided bank details and signed the 
contractual agreement. 
Mrs W was unhappy about this decision and came to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An 
investigator looked into things for her and upheld the complaint. The investigator didnt think 
Co-op had shown that Mrs W agreed to take out the plan. Overall, she was satisfied Mrs W 
wasnt aware the plan was in place. Without that knowledge, Mrs W wasnt able to take 
advantage of the cooling-off period. So our investigator didnt think it was fair to charge Mrs 
W a cancellation fee. She said Co-op should refund Mrs W all of the money shed paid 
towards the plan.  
Co-op disagreed, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain my reasons, focusing on the points 
and evidence I consider material to my decision. So, if I dont refer to a particular point or 
piece of evidence, its not because I havent thought about it. Rather, I dont consider it 
changes the outcome of the complaint. 
Ive looked at the terms relevant to the plan and Im satisfied Co-op is entitled to charge the 
cancellation fee for plans cancelled outside of the cooling-off period. But for me to decide if 
that fee was fairly applied in Mrs Ws case, I need to think about the sale of the plan, what 
information was provided to Mrs W and whether she wouldve been aware that a plan was in 
place. 
Co-op has said that the plan was sold over the phone, so theres no application form. Mrs W 
has acknowledged she made an enquiry about a plan, but maintains she didnt pursue it and 
was unaware the plan had been set up. 
Im satisfied Mrs W must have provided her bank details to the seller to enable a direct debit 
to be set up. But how and when this was done is not clear. No sales script or call recording is 
available, so I dont know the context of Mrs W being asked for her bank details, whether the 
set up was done as a paperless direct debit or whether Mrs W provided a signed authority. 
Co-op has said that a direct debit letter was sent to Mrs W on 16 June 2021. But its not 
been able to provide a copy of the letter, so I dont know what it said. Nor has it been able to 
provide any signed authority from Mrs W. Neither have I seen contemporaneous evidence to 
show that Mrs W was sent plan documents in June 2021 or shortly thereafter. Mrs W states 
that she never received any information from Co-op. So Im not satisfied shed been aware a 
plan was in place and had the opportunity to cancel it without penalty. 
In the absence of a clear understanding about the inception of this plan and the information 
provided to Mrs W, Im persuaded that Mrs W was unaware of the plan until she noticed the 
payment leaving her account. So I dont think its fair for Co-op to charge her a cancellation 
fee.
Putting things right
As I dont think the cancellation term has been fairly applied in Mrs Ws circumstances, I 
think Co-op should refund Mrs W the total payments she made towards the plan. No 
cancellation fee should be applied. I understand the payments made total £374.67.
In line with our rules, Ive thought about my discretion to award interest on the refund. But 
Ive decided against it in this case, because Im satisfied Mrs W did provide her bank details 
to the seller, albeit the context remains unclear. And the direct debit was in place for 
approximately 18 months. I acknowledge people dont always routinely check their 
statements, but nevertheless, the opportunity to notice the payment and raise the matter with 
Co-op earlier was available to Mrs W. 
Co-op should therefore refund Mrs W £374.67.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Co-op Funeral Plans Limited to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman