DRN-3016935
The complaint
Miss M complains about Zurich Insurance PLC regarding the settlement of a buildings 
insurance claim.
Miss M is represented in this complaint, and throughout the claim, by a relative Ill refer to as 
Mr M.
What happened
There is a detailed background which I wont rehearse in detail. In summary, we have 
already dealt with two related complaints concerning the cash settlement which Zurich had 
offered, and delays in reaching a settlement, regarding a subsidence claim. 
This complaint concerns alleged areas of damage in the property that were not previously 
identified by Zurich and in need of repair, and Miss M thinks Zurich should pay for this.
Zurichs position is that although Mr M has apparently been told by his own instructed 
contractor that additional works are required these arent in line with the original scope 
drawn up and previously agreed as the basis for the original settlement. In Zurichs view 
(informed by its experts) the new works were not subsidence related damage and so it was 
not offering further payment.
One of our investigators considered this new complaint but didnt think Zurich needed to 
provide further settlement. She considered the issues Mr M said his builder had raised but 
wasnt satisfied the information was saying they were a result of the subsidence event. And 
those issues which could be linked (superstructure strengthening and repairs) were already 
within the previous scope and settlement. She explained she wasnt satisfied Mr M had 
shown additional works were required to repair the subsidence event. And the investigator 
said Mr M hadnt supported his statements with any report from the contractor stating what 
was needed and why. 
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint concerns whether there was additional subsidence damage that 
Zurich should be responsible for under the insurance policy.
Mr M has provided limited information that shows there is damage in Miss Ms property that 
is subsidence related and, importantly, not already dealt with under a previous complaint and 
scope of works settlement he agreed to accept. 
I note the investigator asked Mr M to provide specific information from his contractor 
including why the contractor needed to do additional works and what works werent in the 
original scope. When Mr M sent some information relaying what hed apparently been told by 
the contractor, the investigator asked for the email the contractor had actually sent to Mr M 
as she may want to discuss directly with the contractor. That full email wasnt sent rather 
some separate screen shots. Given Mr M has been in contact with us by email I find it 
unusual that he wouldnt simply have forwarded the contractors email in its entirety.
The explanatory information Mr M has provided is not an expert assessment of what repairs 
are related to subsidence and not already accounted for in the previous settlement. Part of 
the evidence hes provided is an excel spreadsheet thats dated in 2018 and looks very 
much like an excel submitted in the previous complaint, which was resolved in July 2019. 
Ive seen an invoice addressed to Mr M for additional works at Miss Ms property with paid 
stamped across it for £115,200.00. But there is nothing to explain what works were related to 
previously undiscovered subsidence damage, such that it can reasonably be determined that 
it should be covered under the insurance policy. 
Having thought about this carefully I dont find Mr Ms information in the least persuasive or 
supportive of what he is saying on Miss Ms behalf. Im not satisfied hes shown evidence of 
any subsidence related damage that Zurich hasnt already accounted for in its previous 
settlement. And as theres insufficient evidence that links the additional works to anything 
Zurich got wrong, or new subsidence damage, it would be wholly unfair to require Zurich to 
do anything more on this claim. Im satisfied the decision to refuse payment for additional 
works is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances because Mr M hasnt shown on balance 
that such work is covered by Miss Ms policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman