DRN-1591248
The complaint
This complaint is about monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 
1994 in connection with two credit cards. Miss P says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold 
her the PPI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ps case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Miss P didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. I appreciate what 
Miss P has said about being told PPI was compulsory but Ive seen a copy of the 
application form and this shows Miss P would have been presented with two equally 
clear options as to whether or not to take PPI. And it looks like PPI was only sold to    
Miss P because she chose to take it out by selecting the box to take it out. 
BoS recommended the PPI to Miss P so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and 
she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave Miss P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss P.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss P because: 
When the policy was sold, BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss P about that. Because BoS 
didnt tell Miss P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss P has said - including what she has said told us about her 
existing repayment means. But these points dont change my decision for the reasons I have 
already set out. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss P.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Miss P any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman