DRN-4183115
The complaint
Miss S complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) dealt with a 
claim for damage under her motor insurance policy. When I mention Admiral I also mean its 
repairer.
What happened
Miss S had a motor insurance policy with Admiral. 
In July 2022 she collided with an animal causing damage to her car. She reported the 
collision to Admiral and made a claim.
Her car was driveable but needed repair. It was repaired during October by one of Admirals 
approved repairers and returned to Miss S in November.
About three weeks later an engine warning light came on in her car. Admirals repairer took 
the car back and investigated the light. This took until about February 2023. Then Admiral 
said the warning light wouldnt be covered as part of the claim and Miss S was told shed 
need to pay over £600 for the diagnostic work involved. This fee was waived when Miss S 
complained.
Admiral took about three more weeks to return her car. It agreed to pay Miss £100 
compensation.
Miss S remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She complains about 
Admirals poor communication with her and the extra costs and stress shes had from not 
having a car. Shes also unhappy about being asked to pay the further investigation costs.
Our investigator looked into her complaint and upheld it. He said he thought Admirals 
service should have been better, but Miss S still had her car during most of the claim and it 
was driveable. Miss S provided receipts for journeys she made during the delays which 
amounted to about £100. So he thought Admiral should pay an additional £100 for Miss Ss 
transport costs. 
Miss S didnt accept the view and asked that her complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So its been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In later correspondence, Miss S said shed not been offered a courtesy car during her claim. 
I cant see that shes raised this issue with Admiral or its provided her with its final response, 
so Im not able to consider this in my decision. If Miss S is unhappy about this then she can 
make a new complaint to Admiral and this service in due course if she remains unhappy.
I can also see that Miss when S approached this service she included in her complaint 
information about her cars engine warning light. From the file, I can see that she raised this 
with Admiral, but again I cant see that it included this in its final response letter. But Admiral 
has dealt with delays during her claim and its poor communication. 
Although I cant see this specifically in the final response, I think its reasonable that I 
mention what happened to the engine warning light in my decision because it impacted Miss 
Ss claims experience, and the delays getting her car back have been included in the view.
The collision with the animal caused significant damage to the front of Miss Ss car, but it 
was still driveable and usable. About two months after the collision Miss S had the car 
serviced. During the service the technician found an unplugged cable. When rectified, this 
extinguished the engine warning light.
Shortly after, the damage was repaired by Admiral. About three weeks later, the engine 
warning light re- appeared. This also affected the cars performance, which is most 
commonly referred to as a type of limp-home mode.
Admirals approved repairer re-inspected the car and then took it to the manufacturer who 
carried out a further investigation. It emerged that the error was caused by a bad connection 
in the engine bay affecting coolant flow. It said this was caused by corrosion rather than 
impact damage. 
This in turn meant Admiral didnt cover the cause of this engine warning light under the 
terms of its policy as it wasnt caused by the collision.
When extra costs are incurred during an insurance claim, theyll often be because further 
information is needed either on behalf of the claimant to show that the damage was covered, 
or on behalf of the insurer to show why a claim wouldnt be covered. 
In this case, I can see it was Admirals choice to take the car to the manufacturer for further 
assessment. I can see from the file that this charge was waived by Admiral which I think is 
fair and reasonable.
So Im left to consider Admirals communications with Miss S and the delay returning her car 
to her.
I can see from the file that Admirals repairer didnt keep Miss S informed during the latter 
part of the process while the engine warning light was being investigated. She was promised 
calls back which didnt arrive, and even when the car was ready there was a specific issue 
about not being called in time to be able to collect it given her distance from the repairer.
Miss S was also incurring travel costs because she didnt have her car during this time and I 
can see shes provided receipts showing these costs. 
Ive considered her distress and inconvenience during these delays and I can see Admiral 
has paid £100 for this. But I think Admiral should also pay for Miss Ss travel costs during the 
period she didnt have her car due to the delays getting her car ready to return to her. These 
total about £100 so I think its fair that Admiral pay this amount in addition to the 
compensation its already mentioned.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Miss S a total of £200 compensation for her 
distress and inconvenience and the costs she incurred. Its my understanding that £100 as already been paid, so this can be deducted.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman