DRN-2811046
The complaint
Mr S complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs (RSA) decision to decline a 
claim on a pet insurance policy.
What happened
On 1 January 2020, Mr S took out an RSA pet insurance plan for the family dog, Oliver. Mr S 
made a claim on the policy in September 2020 when Olivers vet diagnosed hed ruptured 
his left hind cruciate. RSA declined the claim because they said there were ongoing signs of 
lameness to the left hind cruciate before the policy was taken out. RSA relied on the pre-
existing illness or injury definition in the policy terms and conditions. It says, We will not pay 
claims for any changes that you or your vet notices in your pets health or behaviour before 
this policy starts, or any illness or injury that develop from these changes.
Mr S complained about the claim being declined and RSA responded. They referred to the 
medical history which they said showed Oliver had a pre-existing condition. RSA said 
Olivers medical history showed he was limping on his left hind leg on 19 July 2019, and that 
hed had an emergency vet appointment on 20 August 2019 for being off {his} back legs. 
RSA said medical notes provided by Olivers vet mentioned bilateral swelling of Olivers 
stifles at the August examination. They say Olivers vet had prescribed medicine to manage 
this condition. RSA considered clinical signs from September 2020 were a result of the 
progression of ongoing disease that had been medically managed for the previous 12 
months. They confirmed the claim remained declined.
Mr S wasnt happy with RSAs response and brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into things for him and thought it wasnt unreasonable for RSA to rely on 
the pre-existing condition term.
Mr S didnt accept the thoughts of our investigator and asked that an ombudsman decides 
his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as the 
investigator, I dont consider RSA acted unreasonably in declining the claim. I will now 
explain why.
I can see RSA reviewed the medical records for Oliver. Ive also seen they considered 
submissions from Olivers vets after the claim was declined. I consider its reasonable for 
RSA to rely on the medical notes as being a true, accurate and a contemporaneous 
representation of what was seen and heard at the time of each consultation. 
RSA have relied on two specific notes in Olivers medical records. Theres one dated 19 July 
2019 which says, Mass above stifle {left hind} leg  first noticed a couple of days ago. Not 
apparently bothering {Oliver}. Limping slightly on {left hind} leg. And theres another note on 
20 August 2019 which says, {possible} mild medial swelling on stifles but bilateral 
symmetrical and does not feel to be associated within joint {sic} capsule.
RSA have also relied on Olivers medical notes showing that he had been on painkillers 
since August 2019. Their in-house vet thought this was prescribed as ongoing medication to 
help with lameness.
Ive also seen from Olivers medical notes that he had a right hind cruciate ligament rupture 
in late 2016, and that at a subsequent appointment in February 2017, the vet noted doing 
well {right hind leg}, no evidence left {cruciate ligament disease} at present though cannot 
exclude very early degeneration.
Having reviewed the medical notes and the opinion of RSAs house vet, I then considered 
the comments Olivers vets provided after the claim was declined. In an email dated 
November 2020 they confirm Oliver was admitted as an emergency for an acute hind limb 
weakness in August 2019. The vets suggest that if this had been related to Olivers left hind 
cruciate ligament he wouldve suffered from ongoing pain, but at a further examination prior 
to August 2020, the vet noted Oliver was sound on his left leg.
I should stress that Im not a vet, and nor do I have specialist veterinary knowledge. So, 
when considering such complaints, one of the factors I take into account is what the clinical 
notes show. My role is to decide whether RSA have applied the exclusion fairly and 
reasonably. I wish to reassure Mr S that Ive carefully considered his comments and those 
from Olivers vet, but they dont persuade me that it was unreasonable for RSA to decline the 
claim. In my opinion theyve relied on the clinical notes and Im satisfied there are records 
which relate to issues with Olivers right hind leg in 2017 and 2019. Their view that the injury 
or illness developed before the policy started doesnt seem unreasonable to me. So, I dont 
consider RSA acted unfairly when they rejected the claim on the grounds they did. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman