DRN-3421291
Complaint
Mr B is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) initially blocked his access to his 
Advance current account and then registered a fraud prevention marker against him.
Background
In March 2021, HSBC restricted Mr Bs access to his Advance current account. It had 
received notification from a third-party bank, responsible for sending three payments to      
Mr Bs account, stating that the payee of the funds had reported being a victim of fraud. By 
this stage, Mr B had already transferred £1,699.00 (of the £1,799.00 total) out of his account 
to two other individuals. HSBC reviewed Mr Bs account and as a result of its investigation, it 
decided to close Mr Bs account and record a fraud prevention marker.
Mr B complained about HSBC restricting his access to his account and also recording a 
fraud prevention marker. HSBC looked at Mr Bs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr B 
remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns. She didnt think that HSBC had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr B disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that HSBC has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr B is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that HSBC must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Bs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
HSBC also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr B was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr B allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Bs complaint, I need to decide whether I think HSBC had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Bs account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that HSBC did have enough to 
record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Bs 
account in March 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr B was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Mr B has said the funds entered his account as part of a crypto-currency investment trading 
group, which he was encouraged to join by a friend. As a result of joining, he was part of 
messaging group where members would send him money and provide him with the details of 
where to then transfer the funds to. He was told that he could keep some of the funds for 
himself as his profit from the crypto-currency trading. He didnt think that he was doing 
anything suspicious or illegal as his friends were doing the same thing and he merely 
thought it was a way of making some quick money. Finally, Mr B said that he deleted and 
blocked the messaging group, out of embarrassment, once HSBC closed his account.   
Ive thought about what Mr B has said. But while I can understand why Mr B may have 
blocked the messaging group out of embarrassment, this doesnt explain why the messages 
were deleted  especially as what he says suggests he attributed responsibility for his 
account being closed to membership of this crypto-currency trading group. And Mr B hasnt 
been able to provide any other messages from his friends encouraging him to join this group 
either. Given Mr B was unhappy with his account being closed, I would have expected him to 
have kept the messages, notwithstanding any embarrassment at his situation, as he was 
challenging HSBCs decision and these messages would have helped his case. 
Furthermore, I also find it difficult to accept that Mr B reasonably believed himself to have 
been part of an investment group where he didnt appear to be investing any of his own 
funds and the references used when transferring the funds out of his account dont appear to 
have related to trading or investment returns either. Indeed, Mr B says he was nave but 
theres no indication that he had no previous investment experience.   
Im afraid the implausibility of what Mr Bs version of events, the transaction references used 
not appearing to support these transfers being for trading or investment returns and Mr B 
being unable to provide anything to corroborate his version of events, all mean that I cant 
reasonably conclude he was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think its more likely 
than not he was complicit in his account receiving fraudulent funds. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that HSBC did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Bs account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr B was complicit in this. As this is 
the case, I dont think that it was unfair for HSBC to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. 
I now turn to the closure of Mr Bs account. The terms and conditions of Mr Bs account 
permitted HSBC to close it where he was accessing or using an account, service or money 
illegally or fraudulently (or have done this in the past) or he was allowing someone else to 
do this. Ive already explained why I think HSBC was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr Bs account had been used for fraudulent purposes when explaining why it didnt act 
unfairly in recording the fraud prevention marker. 
As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much the same reasons, the terms and 
conditions permitted HSBC to close Mr Bs account. I appreciate that some of HSBCs 
communications around the time of the transactions in question and during the course of 
investigation could have been better. But as this was after the fraudulent activity had already 
taken place, I dont agree with Mr Bs assertion that better communication might have 
prevented his account being closed or a fraud marker being recorded against him. 
So overall I dont think that HSBC acted unfairly towards Mr B and Im not upholding this 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr B  especially in light of the 
ongoing impact hes said the fraud marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. 
Furthermore, Mr B might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as 
he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman