DRN-3742998
The complaint
Mr Y complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined his claim for storm 
damage under his home insurance policy. He also complains that UKI provided poor 
customer service during his claim.
What happened
Mr Y had a home insurance policy with UKI. I understand that on 31 January 2021, Mr Y 
made a claim under his policy after part of the cob wall attached to his property collapsed at 
the end of January 2021 following a storm.
Mr Y said that UKI, through their loss adjusters, initially accepted that the wall had collapsed 
due to a named storm. 
Mr Y said that his wall was covered by well-established ivy. He said that UKIs loss adjuster 
had visited his property two weeks after the collapse. And that in the meantime thered been 
heavy snow. So the wall was wet from this during the loss adjusters visit. But it hadnt been 
wet when itd collapsed.
Mr Y said that UKIs loss adjusters visit lasted less than ten minutes. He said he took 
several photos, but none of the actual damage. 
Mr Y said he offered to provide UKI with photos of the damage, which hed taken the 
morning after the collapse. And also CCTV footage of the wall collapsing. But that UKI had 
rejected his offer. UKIs claim notes recorded that on 21 April 21 Mr Y told them that he had 
photographic evidence of the wall the day after the storm that showed that the ivy wasnt the 
cause of the damage. The notes stated that UKI told Mr Y to submit those images to them. 
UKI said that their loss adjuster called them on 17 February 2021 to confirm that the wall 
was of non-standard construction and had been standing for 100 years. They said the loss 
adjuster told them that the wall was made up of mud and straw and was heavily covered in 
ivy. And that the loss adjuster wanted to know how to proceed. 
Mr Y said that UKI eventually told him  on 31 March 2021 - that his claim had been declined 
on the basis that the weight of the wet ivy had caused the wall to collapse.
Mr Y said that UKIs loss adjusters told him that they felt the damage had been caused by 
the storm. He also said they told him that UKI had decided to override that conclusion as 
they felt the weight of the wet ivy had caused the collapse. 
Mr Y said that UKI felt that the ivy had weakened the wall. But that if the loss adjuster had 
looked more closely he wouldve seen that the ivy was, in fact, protecting the structure. 
Mr Y said that UKI passed his claim to the loss adjusters technical department for their 
consideration. He said that they concluded, without any physical evidence or visiting his 
property, that the claim should be rejected. 
Mr Y complained to UKI. He wanted them to cover his claim. He said other cob walls in the 
area which didnt have ivy, had also collapsed. 
UKI issued their first final response to the complaint on 23 April 2021. They said they were 
sorry that Mr Y had needed to chase their loss adjusters for updates throughout the claim. 
They offered Mr Y £100 compensation for the poor service hed received.
UKI said there were no storm conditions recorded in the month leading up to the damage. 
They still felt that the damage to the wall wasn't consistent with a one-off incident of storm. 
But that it had occurred gradually, with the ivy intertwined in the wall having weakened it. 
UKI also said that their loss adjusters had now listened to the calls in which Mr Y had said 
hed been told that his claim should be covered. They said their loss adjusters had told them 
they hadnt said this. As Mr Y didnt agree, they agreed to ask their loss adjusters for the call 
recordings so that Mr Y could listen to them. 
Mr Y had to chase UKI for the call recordings theyd agreed to share with him. 
On 19 May 2021, UKI sent a further response to Mr Ys original complaint. They said that 
while their loss adjusters had previously told them that Mr Y hadnt been told his claim 
should be covered, theyd now listened to the calls again and had confirmed that someone 
had told Mr Y that, in his opinion, the damage was storm damage and the claim would be 
covered. UKI apologised for the upset caused by the delay in sharing the call recordings. 
And for the incorrect information Mr Y had been given. And offered him a further £100 
compensation.
UKI still maintained that their decision to decline the claim was correct. 
Mr Y didnt agree with UKI. He disagreed that the weight of wet ivy brought the wall down. 
He felt his wall had been damaged by a named storm. He said the integrity of the wall was 
breached during the storm and had collapsed some time thereafter. He also felt that the
ivy had actually bound the wall in place and added some stability to the structure.
Mr Y also said:
The real truth of the matter is that no one can be sure exactly how the wall collapsed and 
therefore it cannot be acceptable that the claim is repudiated because of that, but with an 
outcome that appears to be totally in your favour.
And asked UKI to work with him to find a compromise.
UKI said that their loss adjusters technician had reviewed Mr Ys claim and confirmed it 
should be declined. 
Unhappy, Mr Y brought his complaint to this service. He wanted UKI to pay the claim.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He felt that the loss adjuster 
had concluded that the damage wasnt consistent with a one-off incident. But had instead 
been caused over time. And as the terms and conditions of Mr Ys policy excluded cover for 
any claims where the damage happened gradually, he felt UKI had acted fairly when theyd 
declined the claim. 
Our investigator acknowledged that UKI shouldve handled the claim better. But felt that the 
£100 compensation theyd offered Mr Y for the poor service was reasonable under the circumstances. 
Mr Y didnt agree with our investigator. He made the following points:
- he didn't feel that the loss adjuster had carried out an expert assessment of the 
damage. He said that cob walls were very specialized and that the loss adjuster 
wasnt used to assessing them. He also felt that UKI had declined his claim based on 
a desk-based assessment rather than a proper site review. 
- He didnt agree that the ivy had weakened the wall and contributed to its collapse. He 
felt it had strengthened it. He said that when the ivy was finally removed before he 
had the wall rebuilt, there was no evidence of any ingress by the ivy. 
- He said that two other local cob walls had also collapsed within days of his. And that 
neither of these two walls were covered in ivy. He questioned why they had also 
collapsed if his wall had collapsed as a result of heavy wet ivy. 
- He said that UKI had at first incorrectly told him that their loss adjuster hadnt told him 
his claim would be covered under storm damage. But that when theyd listened to the 
calls again after he complained, theyd admitted this had been said. Mr Y felt this had 
caused him a significant amount of inconvenience. 
I understand that Mr Y has now had the wall repaired at a cost of £9,061.68. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing to Mr Y. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
While I may not comment on everything raised, Ive thoroughly read and considered all the 
evidence and arguments from both sides. My decision focuses on the relevant key issues, 
and on what I consider fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
When we look into this sort of complaint, our role is to look at all the available evidence. We 
then have to make a decision about what the most likely reason for the damage was.
Mr Y said that UKIs loss adjusters hadnt been able to provide any: hard evidence to 
support their view as to why the wall collapsed. He also said that he couldnt: supply 
evidence to the contrary. He felt this had led to a stalemate, which would require a 
compromise from both parties. 
Mr Ys policy, like most insurance policies, offers cover for a defined set of insured events, 
subject to certain exclusions and limitations. In order for a claim to be successful, he has to 
show that the loss or damage hes claiming for was caused by one of these events. Its not 
the case that UKI must provide: hard evidence to support their view as to why the wall 
collapsed. Instead, its up to Mr Y to supply evidence that the wall collapsed due to an 
insured event. 
From what Ive seen, theres dispute about whether a storm took place or not. UKI said that 
there were no storms in Mr Ys area in the month up to the claim. Mr Y said that a storm led to the collapse of the wall. And UKIs loss adjusters report stated: This looks to have 
collapsed during the named storm Christoph. 
UKI said that although there was a named storm around the time of the claim, the policys 
storm criteria werent met for Mr Ys postcode at that time. They said there were no storm 
conditions meeting the policys criteria recorded in the month leading up to the damage. 
Overall, Ive not been provided with, and havent independently found, any evidence that 
there were storm conditions meeting UKIs criteria for cover in the period up to the claim. 
However, given there was a named storm at the time of the claim, I deferred my decision 
until Id considered if storm conditions were the main cause of the damage.
UKI felt that the damage to the wall wasn't consistent with a one-off incident of storm. And 
that it had occurred gradually, with the ivy intertwined in the wall having weakened it.
I acknowledge that Mr Y feels that UKI didnt properly assess the damage to his wall. He 
said that the original inspector wasnt an expert on walls of this type. And that if this was 
confirmed, it should put into question the whole basis of UKIs opinion. Mr Y also considers 
that the ivy in the wall strengthened, rather than weakened it. 
While I understand why Mr Y feels this way, I dont agree any further responsibility for 
assessing the damage lies with UKI. I say this because its Mr Ys responsibility to evidence 
that the damage hes claiming for was caused by an insured event, not UKIs. From what Ive 
seen, UKI took reasonable steps to get the damage assessed in the first instance. 
When this service investigates complaints like this one, we consider what the primary cause 
for the wall collapsing is likely to have been. In this case, Ive not been presented with clear 
evidence that a storm caused the damage. So I need to review the available evidence to 
decide what is likely to have caused the collapse. If that shows the collapse occurred 
primarily or entirely because of the effect of sudden storm conditions, such as strong winds 
or torrential rain, then I would likely uphold it. 
We also take into account the condition of the property at the time the storm damage is said 
to have occurred. In this case, Mr Y has indicated that the wall was over 100 years old and 
of non-standard construction. If I decide the evidence shows the wall was already in a poor 
state of repair at the time of the storm, I cant uphold a complaint against UKI for declining 
the claim. This is because the storm probably wasnt the main cause of the damage. 
The only report of the damage that I have was provided by UKIs loss adjuster. But I 
acknowledge that Mr Y feels that the assessment wasnt carried out as fully as it shouldve 
been. And that UKI declined to review information he felt would be useful to his claim. The 
loss adjusters report said: 
The wall is built by shuttering mud and straw on a stone bed with a slate tile crease and 
sand cement mortar coping
The ivy has rooted through the wall
The looks to have collapsed during the named storm Christoph
We suspect the rainwater has soaked into the mud and the winds blowing the ivy have 
caused the wall to come down forward
As the wall was of a non-standard construction, the loss adjusters suggested that the claim 
be passed back to UKI for their comment. The loss adjusters report said that theyd explained to Mr Y that UKIs storm criteria hadnt 
been met. But that Mr Y had said hed been told that a named storm would be enough to 
allow the claim to be covered. 
The report also went on to state:
We are of the opinion that the weight of the ivy and the wet wall have caused the ivy to move 
in the wind and brim down the wall and thus the claim repudiated
UKI had a senior technical manager review the claim, although I understand no further 
inspections were carried out. The managers notes, dated 19 April 2021 stated: 
I would point out that this type of structure would be extremely prone to gradual process 
loss, I note that the First Notification Of Loss describes torrential rain over a three-week 
period. This and the degradation over the previous years would amount to gradual process 
loss and would preclude cover.
Mr Y told this service that two other walls of the same age and construction had collapsed 
due to the storm. And that neither of them had any ivy. 
Ive carefully considered the documentary evidence and what both parties have told this 
service. As the weather conditions werent severe enough to meet the policy requirements 
for a storm, Im not persuaded that a storm was the main cause of the damage. Im of the 
view that Mr Y hasnt shown that the damage to his wall was caused by an insured event. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that the damage happened 
gradually. So I consider that UKI fairly and reasonably applied one of the policys exclusions 
- wear and tear and gradual deterioration, which most insurance policies also exclude  to 
decline the claim. 
I next considered the compensation UKI offered Mr Y for the poor service and for the 
incorrect information they gave him. UKI offered £100 compensation for the poor service. 
And a further £100 compensation after they realised that Mr Y had in fact been incorrectly 
told that his claim would be covered under the storm section of his policy.
As UKI have already accepted that they couldve handled the claim better, and that they 
were wrong when they told Mr Y that he hadnt ever been told his claim would be covered 
under the storm section of the policy, Ive considered whether the compensation they offered 
was fair for the distress and inconvenience he suffered. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that £100 compensation for each of the poor service and 
the incorrect information is reasonable under the circumstances. 
Im sorry that Mr Ys wall collapsed. But Im satisfied that UKI fairly declined his claim on the 
basis of wear and tear. And that they took reasonable steps to put thing right with their poor 
service and incorrect information. So while I know this will disappoint Mr Y, Im unable to 
uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman