DRN-2887565
The complaint
Mr H is complaining that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement from Mi 
Vehicle Finance Limited trading as Mann Island Vehicle Finance (Mann Island) was not of 
satisfactory quality.
 
What happened
Mrs H has represented Mr H in bringing the complaint to our service. For simplicity in my 
response here, I will just refer to all evidence or testimony as having been provided by Mr H, 
rather than to separate out who told us which parts. All the testimony provided was done so 
on behalf of Mr H, so I will refer to it as his testimony.
Mr H acquired a used car from Mann Island in June 2020. The car was around 9 years old 
and had travelled around 70,000 miles from new. The cash price was around £6,500, 
financed over 36 months. 
Mr H told us that soon after acquiring the car, there were some issues with the rear 
windscreen washer, the cigarette lighter and there was a chip in the windscreen. At some 
point after this hes told us he also had issues with the brakes. 
In December 2020 he raised a complaint with the business. They responded in March 2021, 
rejecting the complaint. They said that the rear screen washer had just been clogged so they 
had cleaned it out, but its possible it had become clogged again with dirt. 
They explained that they had replaced a fuse which had blown for the cigarette lighter and 
explained that they felt this was a wear and tear item which might blow again if the customer 
was using the lighter for an incorrect device. 
They advised that the car had passed an MOT immediately before being supplied to Mr H, 
so the windscreen had been legal at that point, and that a chip had been previously repaired, 
so they did no further work. 
And finally, with regards to the brakes, they said that the complaint was the first they had 
been told of any issues with them. The final response letter says that the supplying 
dealership had offered to inspect the vehicle and carry out any repairs if there were shown to 
be issues present at the point of sale. However, this appointment did not happen. The 
business has said that Mr H did not turn up for the appointment, and Mr H has said that they 
told the business that they could not turn up for the appointment as the car was unsafe to 
drive. 
The business reminded Mr H that he also had a 12 month warranty, so could take the car to 
any VAT registered garage and if they obtained a diagnostics report, they would review this. 
Mr H took the car to a garage in February 2021, and we have been provided with some 
written testimony and a video inspection of this. The video says that the front passenger side 
brake has seized up and needs fixing, and there may be an oil leak from the gearbox but 
further investigation of this would be needed. It also mentions some wear on the rear tyres. 
The written report also says that the timing belt shows signs of wear and should be replaced. 
No mileage is provided with this report, but the business has said that they believe the 
mileage in December 2020 was around 74,000 miles, and so expect it was slightly higher 
again by February 2021. 
Mr H had already brought his complaint to our service in February 2021 before the final 
response letter was issued. He has told us he feels the car is unsafe to drive and wants to 
reject it. 
In March 2021 Mr H said he took the car to a different garage to be inspected, which also 
said that the front brakes needed urgent attention.  
An investigator here investigated the complaint and did not uphold it. They said that they 
agreed that that the evidence showed that the front discs and brake pads needed 
replacing/fixing, and the timing belt was starting to perish. However, they pointed out that 
brakes would be an item checked on the MOT test, and so they were legal and safe when 
the car was supplied in 2020 immediately after an MOT test. 
They felt that bearing in mind the age of the car and the number of miles it had travelled, and 
the fact it was several months since the car was supplied before any issues with the brakes 
had become apparent, that the issues werent developing or present at point of sale. They 
said they were normal wear and tear for a car of this age. They felt the car was of 
satisfactory quality therefore when it was supplied and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr H didnt agree with this view and asked for the case to be referred to an Ombudsman for 
a final decision. He felt the car was unusable and the issues were far more serious than just 
wear and tear. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. Mann Island as the supplier of the goods under this type 
of agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history.
Here, the car was used and had a cash price of around £6,500. It was nine years old and 
had travelled approximately 70,000 miles at the time of supply. When a person acquires a 
used car like Mr Hs, its reasonable to say that the expectation of quality is lower than that of 
a new car. It might have already suffered a degree of wear and tear, and theres a greater 
risk that repair or maintenance might be required sooner than a car which wasnt as road 
worn when it was supplied.
Ill deal with the issues with the rear screen washer, cigarette lighter and chipped windscreen 
first. These are all issues which could be expected to occur in a car of this age and mileage. 
The supplying garage have said that the rear screen washer was clogged, and they unclogged it, and the fuse had blown in the cigarette lighter which they replaced. Theyve 
also said that the chip in the windscreen had already been repaired, so they had done 
nothing with this. 
I dont consider any of these issues to impact on the car being of satisfactory quality. No 
evidence has been provided that there are any underlying issues meaning these items need 
replacing or repairing differently, and whilst Mr H said that the rear screen washer wasnt 
working again, its possible this was just clogged again. Overall, Im not persuaded that the 
issue with the fuse or the rear screen washer impact the satisfactory quality of the car, based 
on its age and mileage when supplied. 
The windscreen had been checked and deemed safe when the car passed its MOT 
immediately before it was supplied, so there was no safety issue.  And if there was a chip 
present which Mr H objected to for cosmetic reasons, he did have the opportunity to inspect 
the car before he acquired it, and he chose to go ahead with the purchase. Overall therefore, 
I dont feel these issues evidence that the car was of unsatisfactory quality. I am satisfied 
that they are all minor issues with items that can wear out or need replacing in cars of this 
age. 
Moving on, I empathise with Mr H over his concerns with the brakes. Its unclear exactly 
when these issues began, as neither side has been able to provide any clear evidence. We 
also dont have an independent report to consider, but Im satisfied that the garage 
inspection reports provided by Mr H, along with other evidence already provided, gives 
enough for me to form a view of whats happened, and whether the car was of satisfactory 
quality. 
In February and March 2021, when Mr H has asked for checks to be done by garages of his 
choosing, they have both highlighted issues with the front brake pads and discs. They have 
also highlighted that the timing belt has begun to perish, and replacement should be 
considered. Alongside this, there are other lesser issues mentioned which arent as urgent to 
be repaired or dealt with, including a small oil leak. 
In June 2020, immediately before it was supplied, the car undertook an MOT test. Checking 
the Brake pads and discs forms part of the MOT test, so if these items had been illegal or 
dangerous at this point, I would have expected to see this raised on the MOT report. The car 
passed the MOT and there was also no advisory which might have suggested that these 
items were close to failing the test. 
Brake pads and discs are unfortunately a wear and tear item in a car. For a car this age, it is 
expected that they will need to be replaced from time to time. Whilst I appreciate that its 
unfortunate that the front discs and pads appear to need replacing within a year of acquiring 
the vehicle, this doesnt make the car of unsatisfactory quality when supplied. The MOT test 
confirms they were legal and safe at the point of sale, and at some point over the following 
months of Mr H owning and using the car, they have worn out and need replacing. 
After the investigator here gave their view on the case, Mr H has said that the car was 
undrivable and practically scrap the way it is. I completely appreciate that when a cars 
brakes are not working properly, it can be a very concerning time, and can make driving the 
car feel very unsafe. But if I look at the report provided to Mr H in February 2021 by a garage 
of his choice, it suggests the cost to replace the brake discs and pads needed at that time 
would be around £200 for the discs and £150 for the pads. This seems to be in line with 
expected prices on the market for these items, and it would seem that the car brakes would 
be fine once these items were replaced. If I consider the definition I mentioned above for whether a car being supplied is of 
satisfactory quality, it says that:
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history.
With the car being 9 years old and having travelled 70,000 miles when supplied, this sits 
around the average life expectancy of brake discs and pads if they hadnt been replaced 
previously. Unfortunately, they are a common wear and tear item on cars of this age and 
mileage. As such, I think that in the definition above, considering the age and mileage of the 
car, its reasonable to expect that brake pads and discs might need replacing quite soon 
after acquiring a car. This wouldnt make the car of unsatisfactory quality when supplied. 
 
Whilst I empathise with Mr H in the fact that the brake pads and discs have worn in the first 
few months, I am satisfied that the brakes of the car were of satisfactory quality when 
supplied. 
Finally, there is mention in the reports provided by Mr H of an oil leak and also the timing belt 
beginning to perish. Neither of these have been directly complained about, but for clarity and 
closure, I feel its best to deal with them. There is no further evidence about the oil leak, and 
the report provided says further investigation would be needed. A small oil leak could be a 
fairly minor wear and tear issue, and neither garage seems to have highlighted any major 
concerns about this, so I cant say that this makes the car of unsatisfactory quality when it 
was supplied. 
With regards to the timing belt, this is also a wear and tear item. The lifespan can vary 
significantly, but a car of this age and mileage potentially needing a replacement, similarly to 
the brakes, doesnt persuade me that the car was not of satisfactory quality. Again, I 
empathise with Mr H that this may have needed replacing within a year of acquiring the car, 
but these are unfortunately the kind of wear and tear items when buying a 9 year old car 
which can occur. Im not persuaded that this makes the car of unsatisfactory quality. 
Overall, whilst it is clear that there were some issues with the car, I am not persuaded that 
these issues were evidence of the car not being of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
They all appear to be wear and tear issues which are common place with cars of this age 
and mileage. 
Im sorry that this wont be the answer Mr H was hoping for, but I hope he can appreciate my 
reasons for it. I know he also feels that the customer service he received from the business 
wasnt good, and he mentioned this to us when raising the complaint. But their customer 
service is not within my remit or powers to consider, so Ive focused on the car and the 
issues Mr H had with it. 
Overall, Im not upholding this complaint and I wont be asking Mann Island to do anything 
more here.  
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 Paul Cronin
Ombudsman