DRN-2849748
The complaint
Mr A complains about charges made by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS) when he returned his hire vehicle.
 
What happened
Mr A entered into a hire agreement for a vehicle with MBFS in February 2017. The 
agreement ran for three years, and the vehicle was returned at the end of the agreement 
period in February 2020. 
Collection agents collected and inspected the car for MBFS on 7 February 2020. Mr A says 
he wasnt able to attend the inspection due to a family emergency, so a family friend 
attended it for him instead. The report from this inspection notes a number of items of 
damage that are outside of fair wear and tear, and indicates that the charge to Mr A for these 
items will be £983.95
Mr A complained to MBFS about these charges. He says he wasnt present at the inspection 
and didnt sign anything to agree to the damage or the charge. 
MBFS responded to Mr As complaint in December 2020. They said the damage is evident, 
and Mr A agreed for a third party to be present at the inspection, so the charge applies. 
Unhappy with this, Mr A brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Mr A, and they thought that the charges had been fairly applied, so MBFS didnt 
need to do anything more. 
Mr A didnt agree with our investigator. He says the charges werent discussed with him, and 
he didnt get a chance to inspect the car himself. Mr A says that the charges for the spare 
key and the alloy wheel key are unfair, because theres no evidence the alloy wheel key 
wasnt in the car, and he returned the spare key to MBFS at a later date. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2021 recommending that it was 
upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
Mr A signed a hire agreement in February 2017. The terms of the agreement set out that the 
vehicle must be returned at the end of the agreement in line with the vehicle return 
standards. It confirms that an inspection will be carried out by trained technicians and goes 
on to set out the acceptable return standards, beyond which it allows MBFS to charge for the 
costs of either repairing and / or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the consequent 
reduction in the sale value of the vehicle. 
Its clear from the agreement that Mr A was responsible for returning the car in good 
condition. I appreciate that Mr A wasnt present at the inspection, but it seems that he 
authorised a third party to be present instead. 
Mr A had an opportunity to inspect the vehicle prior to the inspection, and to review the 
vehicle return standards that are part of his agreement. There are also published online. So, 
I find that his not being present at the inspection doesnt mean that hes not responsible for 
any damage that was found to be outside of the acceptable return standards.  
Ive gone on to consider whether the charges applied by MBFS are fair and reasonable. 
 
Along with the vehicle return standards set out in the agreement, there are industry standard 
guidelines published by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) which 
set out what is considered to be fair wear and tear in respect of a hired vehicle. So, I have 
also considered these in deciding what its fair for MBFS to charge on return of the car.
The damage that MBFS say is outside of fair wear and tear, and therefore payable by Mr A, 
is as follows: 
Spare key missing
Alloy wheel key missing
Left hand front wheel spoke scuffed
Left hand rear wheel spoke scuffed
Right hand rear wheel spoke scuffed
Right hand front wheel spoke scuffed
Right hand rear door scratched
Right had front door scratched
Missing keys
In respect of keys, the hire agreement says that the vehicle must be returned together with 
everything originally supplied, including spare keys and locking wheel nuts. The BVRLA fair 
wear and tear standards say a full set of keys, including the spares and locking wheel nut 
keys should be returned if originally supplied. 
There is no dispute that the vehicle was supplied with a spare key, and a key for the wheels. 
Mr A says that he couldnt attend the inspection due to a family emergency, and he had a 
key for the vehicle with him which is why it wasnt returned at the time. But he contacted 
MBFS and returned the key after the inspection. 
As the spare key has been returned, and MBFS wont need to pay to replace this, I find the 
charge for the spare key hasnt been fairly applied.  
Mr A says the locking wheel nut was in the vehicle. Ive reviewed the report provided by 
MBFS, and I cant see any evidence that this key was missing. Mr A says it was in an orange 
bag in the boot. The bag is clearly visible in the inspection video, but it isnt opened by the 
technician. 
I find that MBFS havent supplied sufficient evidence that the locking wheel nut wasnt 
returned with the vehicle, so this charge hasnt been fairly applied. 
Wheel scuffs
In respect of alloy wheels, the hire agreement says that any scuff chip or scratch under 
25mm is acceptable. The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that scuffs up to 50mm 
on the total circumference of the alloy wheel is acceptable, and any damage to the spokes is 
not acceptable. Ive reviewed the photos provided by MBFS of the damage to the four wheels, and Im 
satisfied that they clearly show scuffs to the alloy over 50mm, and damage to the spokes of 
the alloy. So, Im satisfied that the charges for repair of these have been fairly applied.
Scratches
In respect of paintwork and scratches, the hire agreement says that any light surface 
scratches not through the top coat which can be removed by polishing / touch up are 
acceptable. The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that surface scratches of 25mm or 
less where the primer or bare metal is not showing, provided they can be polished out, are 
acceptable. 
Ive reviewed the photos provided by MBFS of the scratches to the doors. Im satisfied that 
its clear from the photos that both areas have a number of scratches over 50mm and the 
primer appears to be showing. So, Im satisfied that the charge for repair of these has been 
fairly applied. 
Mr A responded to my provisional decision to say he thought the scratches around the door 
handle were surface scratches, and the damage to the alloy wheels wasnt deep. 
MBFS responded to my provisional decision to say that although the key was returned at a 
later date, any missing keys are deactivated immediately as a security measure, and a cost 
is incurred to obtain and programme a new key. The returned key is no longer coded to the 
vehicle. 
They also say the wheel nut wasnt mentioned by Mr A in his complaint, and its impossible 
to prove that something was missing. Our investigator asked MBFS for evidence of the 
replacement wheel nut, but this couldnt be provided as the invoice for replacement is not 
issued for each individual vehicle.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr As comments about the scratches and the alloy wheels. For the reasons 
set out in my provisional decision, I am satisfied that these areas of damage are outside of 
the vehicle return standards set out in the hire agreement, and the BVRLA fair wear and tear 
standards. I havent seen any additional evidence that would persuade me otherwise. So, I 
am satisfied that the charges for these items have been fairly applied. 
Ive considered MBFSs comments about the key. Whilst MBFS deactivated the key and 
therefore needed to replace it before Mr A returned it, it seems reasonable that once the key 
was returned, this wouldve been able to be programmed and used on another vehicle. So, 
Im not satisfied that the charge for a replacement key has been fairly applied. 
Ive also considered MBFSs comments about the wheel nut. Mr A told us after bringing his 
complaint to this service that he didnt think there was any evidence that the wheel nut was 
missing. He thought it was in the orange bag in the boot. 
This bag is visible in the inspection video, but it isnt opened by the technician, so I cant say 
for certain whether it was there at the time of the inspection. MBFS say this wasnt raised by 
Mr A at the time of his complaint. Ive reviewed the evidence submitted by both parties on this point, and I cant see that Mr A 
raised this with MBFS prior to bringing his complaint to this service. If he was sure that the 
wheel nut had been in the vehicle, I might have expected him to tell MBFS about this when 
making his complaint about the damage charges. Had he done so, MBFS wouldve had an 
opportunity to recheck the vehicle to see if it couldve been found. 
MBFS cant provide the invoice for the replacement of the wheel nut. But, its not unusual for 
repairs and replacements to be completed on bulk orders, rather than invoiced separately. 
So, I dont think this means they didnt replace it. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), Ive 
reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
If the wheel nut had been easily located, I dont think the inspecting technician wouldve 
noted it as being chargeable for replacement. Mr A didnt raise the concern that it was in the 
vehicle in time for MBFS to carry out another check. 
On the balance of probabilities, and considering the wider circumstances, Im persuaded that 
its most likely that the wheel nut wasnt present in the vehicle at the time of the inspection, 
and so I find that the charge for the replacement wheel nut has been applied fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance to remove the charge for the spare 
key from the end of contract charges. This leaves a bill of £838 for Mr A to pay. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021. 
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman