DRN-1987589
The complaint
Mr P complains about a payment made to Apple for £9.99 from his National Westminster Plc 
account. He says hed previously asked the bank to block all transactions to Apple.
What happened
The payment of £9.99 left Mr Ps account on 11 May 2020 and was re-credited a few days 
later. During this time Mr Ps account balance reduced from £25.52 to being overdrawn by 
£9.58. The re-credit of £9.99 put Mr Ps account balance back to £0.41 in credit. 
NatWest say Mr P called on 8 May 2020 to ask to prevent the payment from being made and 
they told him he needed to contact Apple to request a refund. After being told by Apple that a 
refund would take up to 60 days, Mr P called NatWest again. 
By now, Mr P had very little money in his account and he told NatWest hed intended to use 
the money paid to Apple for food and electricity. During this call Mr P asked to speak to a 
manager. The manager agreed to re-credit Mr Ps account and asked him to complete an 
on-line form to dispute the payment. Mr P complained because NatWest hadnt followed his 
previous request to block payments to Apple, hed spent time and money on calls being 
passed around departments, and the agent had been rude and reluctant to refer him to a 
manager.
NatWest upheld the complaint and offered to pay Mr P £30 and refund the £9.99, in addition 
to the refund Apple had already provided. NatWest later needed to refund the £9.99 again 
because it had been debited from his account. Because of this and some delays in the 
refund it paid a further £15.
Our investigator felt the compensation reflected the distress and inconvenience Mr P had 
experienced.  But Mr P didnt agree, and he asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr P was concerned when he became aware of the payment due to 
Apple, because he thought hed asked NatWest to block any payments to them. Mr P says 
he called NatWest several months before May 2020 but he doesnt remember the specific 
date. NatWest says it has a record of a call in February 2020 about a payment to Amazon, 
which Mr P says is about something else. In addition, NatWest says Mr P only called about 
cancelling Apple payments on 8 May 2020, when it was too late to stop the payment. 
Its reasonable for Mr P to expect that NatWest would have tried to prevent any payments 
from being made to Apple, but theres uncertainty about when Mr P called NatWest and what 
was discussed and agreed. So I cant say for certain whether NatWest should have stopped 
the payment. But Ive thought about what NatWest did when Mr P called in May 2020 
explaining the impact the payment was having on him. 
When Mr P first called NatWest he was told to contact Apple who then told him the refund 
would take up to 60 days. I can understand why Mr P would have been very concerned by 
this, because of the balance in his account. When Mr P insisted that he was transferred to a 
manager, the money was re-credited to Mr Ps account two days later. 
Although the payment to Apple was a relatively modest amount and was returned to Mr Ps 
account within a few days, it took a few calls and he felt he had to insist that he was 
transferred to a manager before a refund was arranged. Although the bank has paid Mr P a 
total of £30 compensation, in all the circumstances I consider that a total of £50 would be a 
fairer overall sum.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint. To 
settle it, National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mr P further compensation of £20, in 
addition to the £30 it has already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Emma English
Ombudsman