DRN-2103947
The complaint 
Miss C says Gain Credit LLC - trading as Lending Stream - irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Miss C between      
February and July 2019. A summary of Miss Cs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 13/02/2019 22/10/2019 6 £100.00 £34.66
2 04/06/2019 Not Closed 6 £300.00 £126.49
3 14/07/2019 Not Closed 6 £380.00 £252.35
Miss Cs complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators and they didnt think it should be 
upheld. They thought there wasnt anything in the information Lending Stream had asked   
Miss C to provide that should have prompted Lending Stream to do more checks. So, the 
adjudicator couldnt say Lending Stream was wrong to have given the loans to Miss C.  
Miss C disagreed. She said she was struggling to repay the loans and was having financial 
problems. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure     
Miss C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Miss C disagreed with the adjudicators view because she thought Lending Streams checks 
didnt go far enough and it should have been aware that she was struggling financially and 
was behind on her repayments for other loans. So, it shouldnt have lent to her.
Lending Stream has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of 
the borrowing. It has said it asked Miss C about her employment status and she confirmed 
she was employed and had a monthly income of between £1,656 and £1,700. Lending 
Stream also checked Miss Cs normal monthly living costs. Miss C declared these to be 
between £473 and £573 a month. Lending Stream says it also searched Miss Cs credit file 
and it has provided the results of its search. There werent any recent adverse entries like 
defaults or county court judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at the time the loans were taken 
out. So, there wasnt anything that should have promoted Lending Stream to do further 
checks. 
Miss C has also provided a copy of her credit report and this shows that there was some 
other borrowing from short-term lenders. Its possible that this information wouldnt have 
shown up on Lending Streams search. But the amounts Miss C was borrowing were low 
and I dont think  even if Lending Stream had seen the other borrowing - Lending Stream 
ought to have increased its checks before it lent to Miss C again or not lent to her because of 
what was found in the credit search.    
Miss C borrowed three loans in five months. So, she was very early on in her lending 
relationship with Lending Stream. Even though she had to make monthly repayments, the 
highest repayment would have appeared affordable based on the information she declared 
to Lending Stream. And there wasnt anything in the information Miss C provided at the time 
which would have given Lending Stream cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of 
Lending Stream to have relied on what Miss C gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
Lending Stream to carry out. Given these, I think the checks Lending Stream did before 
lending the loans went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake 
any more in-depth checks. 
The information Miss C declared to Lending Stream at the time of the loans may not have 
been an accurate reflection of her financial circumstances, but I think Lending Stream was 
entitled to rely on that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what Lending 
Stream knew about Miss C, I wouldnt have expected Lending Stream to verify the 
information Miss C gave it. This therefore means, I cant say that Lending Stream has done 
something wrong in lending Miss C these loans.
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Miss C, but I hope my explanation will 
help her understand why Ive reached this conclusion.My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Cs complaint and make no award against Gain Credit LLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman