DRN-3140103
The complaint
F is a limited company. F complains Arthur J. Gallagher Insurance Brokers Limited (AJG) 
took too long to provide a refund for a cancelled commercial insurance policy. F says it 
suffered a financial loss as a result.
F is represented by one if its directors, Mr H.
What happened
F took out a commercial insurance policy via AJG, which is a broker. On 21 June 2021, Mr H 
asked AJG to cancel the policy. The cancellation was mid-term, so a premium refund was 
due. The refund was processed by AJG on 15 July 2021.
Mr H complained about the time the refund took. He says had the refund been made sooner, 
F would have avoided a £750 overdraft fee on its business bank account. The fee was 
applied by the bank on 8 July 2021. 
AJG explained that it had to convey the cancellation request to the insurer, and wait for the 
funds from the insurer, before these could be refunded to F. AJG said it received the funds 
from the insurer on 12 July 2021.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She didnt think AJG had done anything 
wrong. Mr H said, when the policy was taken out, he was told a refund would take seven 
days. He also said he stressed to AJG that he needed the funds. 
Because Mr H disagreed with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AJG has provided several phone calls from when the policy was taken out, and Ive not seen 
the cancellation refund timescale was discussed. Mr H also hasnt provided anything that 
shows he was told a refund would only take seven days.
Ive reviewed AJGs terms of business, which Ive seen were sent to Mr H when the policy 
was taken out. Whilst those terms dont give a timescale for a refund, they do make clear 
that the insurer will need to determine the refund due. 
I can understand Mr Hs frustration that it took about four weeks for the refund. However, it 
follows that AJG needed to defer to the insurer, and then wait for the funds to be received, 
before it could pass the refund to F. In such circumstances, I dont find four weeks 
unreasonable. 
In any event, AJG made Mr H aware on 28 June 2021, during a call, that the refund would 
take up to 90 days. So, in my view, it was for F to make alternative arrangements to avoid 
the overdraft fee. Ultimately, I cant reasonably hold AJG responsible for Fs financial 
difficulties.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, but for the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman