DRN-3977464
The complaint
Miss R complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly recorded a default on her credit file after it 
closed her account. 
What happened
Miss R had a student current account with Santander. The terms of the account required 
Miss R to use it as her primary bank account and make regular deposits. The bank account 
had an overdraft facility of £1,500. 
There was a deposit of £1,000 in May 2017 but, from that point, there were no other credits 
above £190 paid into the account. In January 2018 a bill payment was collected from the 
account for £150. 
Santander says it reviewed the account and lack of activity and decided to withdraw the 
overdraft facility in October 2018. From that point, the account remained open but wasnt 
subject to new spending. Miss R made ad hoc payments to the account until January 2019. 
Santanders contact notes show Miss R spoke with an agent and agreed a payment 
arrangement of £90 a month to reduce the outstanding overdraft balance. Payments were 
made until May 2019 then stopped. 
Santander spoke with Miss R again in June 2019 and she gave it information about her 
finances at the time. Miss R advised a standing order payment for £90 had been paid that 
day. An income and expenditure assessment was completed and a short term arrangement 
to make payments of £54 was agreed. Santander asked Miss R to call back in August 2019 
to discuss her account and payment options. 
On 13 July 2019 Santander sent Miss R a Notice of Default that said she had 28 days to 
contact it to make an arrangement. Miss R called Santander on 21 August 2019 to discuss a 
payment plan but her account had already been closed at default at that point. Santanders 
contact notes say the agent advised Miss R the default would be recorded on her credit file 
for six years. 
Miss Rs explained that throughout this period she was suffering with significant mental 
health issues that impacted her ability to manage her account. 
Last year, Miss R complained to Santander and said the default was impacting her ability to 
get other credit, like a mortgage. Santander sent Miss R a final response but didnt agree it 
had made a mistake or acted unfairly by closing her account and recording the default. 
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Rs complaint. They thought Santander had 
dealt with Miss Rs case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Miss R asked to appeal 
and said a family member had told branch staff about her mental health issues so Santander 
shouldve been aware. Miss R added that her mental health during this period wasnt at a 
point where she was able to manage her accounts and that Santander should retrospectively 
remove the default from her credit file. As Miss R asked to appeal, her complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to ensure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Santander says it took the decision to restrict new spending on Miss Rs current account in 
October 2018 because it wasnt being managed in line with the terms and conditions. Ive 
looked at Santanders student account terms and conditions which require customers to use 
it as their primary bank account. The terms say regular payments should be made to fund 
the account. As a starting point, Ive looked at whether Santander acted reasonably when it 
applied a restriction in October 2018 to stop new spending. 
Looking at Miss Rs account activity, I can see it was used for direct debit payments and bill 
payments with regular credits being made until 2017. But towards the end of 2017 the 
number of transactions slowed. There were two transactions in January 2018 but from that 
point Miss R stopped using the account altogether. Santander says it reviewed Miss Rs 
account and took the decision to restrict new spending in October 2018 as it wasnt being 
run in line with the terms. Ive reviewed the account activity and I think Santander made a 
reasonable decision to restrict the account in October 2018. 
The contact notes show Miss R spoke with Santander in January 2019. At this point, the 
account remained open but no new spending was allowed. The contact notes show 
Santander discussed the account status with Miss R and agreed a payment arrangement of 
£90 a month. The notes say Santanders agent checked Miss R was up to date with her 
priority bills and confirmed the proposed payment arrangement was affordable. Miss R went 
on to make payments of £90 a month, in line with the payment arrangement, until May 2019 
when they stopped. 
Santander has told us that as a result of the status of the account and failure of the payment 
arrangement it wrote to Miss R and tried to contact her on various occasions from May 2019 
onwards. The contact notes show Miss R got back in touch with Santander in June 2019. 
Santander completed an income and expenditure assessment that indicated Miss R was 
unable to afford the £90 payment arrangement shed previously been party to. Santanders 
notes say Miss R agreed to make a payment of £54 in the following month but it wasnt 
made. The notes also say Santanders agents gave information about how the status of Miss 
Rs account would be reported on her credit file and that it was possible a default could be 
registered. 
As no payments were made, Santander issued a Notice of Default in July 2019 that said 
Miss R had 28 days to get in touch. The account was terminated at default in line with 
Santanders Notice of Default. Miss R contacted Santander, but by that point the account 
had already been closed and default reported. 
Businesses are required to treat customers who are experiencing financial difficulties 
positively and sympathetically. And Id expect to see more comprehensive support provided 
if a business was aware a customer was experiencing periods of significant ill health. Whilst I dont doubt what Miss R has told us about her mental health during this period, I havent 
seen any evidence that shows Santander was aware of her circumstances. Miss Rs 
explained that a family member informed branch staff. But there are limited circumstances 
when a business is allowed to record information about a customers health, requiring 
specific consent. Im satisfied that receiving that information from a third party, even a close 
family member, wouldnt have allowed Santander to record it. 
Ive looked over the contact notes. I can see there were periods of no contact. But Miss R 
did speak with Santander during the period in question on a number of occasions. 
Santanders contact notes show its agents discussed the account status, need for a payment 
arrangement and move to default if the arrangements werent maintained. The notes 
specifically record that the impact to Miss Rs credit file was discussed with her during the 
calls. To me, it appears Santander had reasonably detailed conversations with Miss R during 
2018 and 2019 but I havent seen anything that indicates it was made aware of the 
seriousness of Miss Rs mental health issues. As Ive said above, I dont doubt what Miss R 
has told us and its clear shes been through a very difficult time. But as Santander wasnt 
aware of the issues Miss Rs told us about, Im not persuaded it acted unfairly by taking the 
decision to close her account and record the default after the payment arrangement failed. 
Miss Rs given us some very personal information about how her mental health issues have 
impacted her over time. As Ive said above, I dont doubt what Miss R has told us and shes 
provided medical evidence that shows she started receiving treatment in April 2019. But my 
role is to look at whether Santander treated Miss R fairly in light of what it knew about her 
circumstances at the time. For the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied Santander wasnt 
aware of Miss Rs mental health issues in the run up to her account being closed at default. 
As Santander wasnt aware, Im unable to agree it acted unfairly by moving to close Miss Rs 
account. 
Ive considered whether there are grounds to tell Santander to remove the default from 
Miss Rs credit file. I understand Miss Rs circumstances were very difficult. But I also have 
to note that her account activity shows it wasnt being operated in line with the account terms 
going back to 2017, when the last substantial credit was made into the account. Santander 
took a reasonable decision to restrict new spending in October 2018 and agreed a payment 
arrangement in January 2019 that was maintained for several months. Miss R also spoke 
with Santander in June 2019 and it agreed to provide some further breathing space and for a 
reduced payment to be made the following month. It was only after no further payments 
were received that Santander issued the default notice and ultimately closed Miss Rs 
account. Im very sorry to disappoint Miss R, but Im satisfied Santander is fairly recording 
the default on her credit file. I havent found grounds to tell Santander to remove the default. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss R, but as Im satisfied Santander dealt with her complaint 
fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman