DRN-1433363
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (when it was trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold 
him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2005. Mr A completed an 
application form for a Barclaycard in a Barclays branch and the policy was added to his card 
at the same time.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed. 
Mr A mainly said that the PPI was attached to his Barclaycard without his knowledge and he 
wouldve refused it if hed known about it. Hes asked for a review so this complaint comes to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Heres why I say this.
I dont know what mightve been discussed about the PPI. But the application form Mr A 
completed made it clear that it was up to him to say if he wanted PPI and its been ticked to 
say he required it. I can see that he didn't tick the form to include another optional feature 
that was offered with the card  so it looks to me as if Mr A understood at the time that he 
couldve left the box blank if he hadnt wanted PPI.
I can understand why Mr A has forgotten now as this was a long time ago. But I think its 
likely that Mr A wouldve been able to see at the time that the application form showed that 
having the PPI was optional - and he chose to take it, signing the completed application to 
confirm the information on the form.  
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mr A. If a business makes a recommendation 
about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has 
to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. So, although 
Mr A couldnt remember Barclays either explaining or recommending PPI to him, looking at 
his complaint this way gives it the best chance of success  and thats the approach Im 
taking.
Mr A was eligible for the policy. Theres been some different information provided about his 
employment and benefits. But Im relying on the most up to date information hes provided which is that he wouldve had full sick pay for 6 months then half pay for the next 6 months 
from his employer if he was off work sick. 
The policy wouldve paid more than his minimum credit card repayments for up to 12 months 
per claim in the event of accident or sickness  on top of any work benefits. As Mr A 
mightve also had some additional costs if he was too unwell to go back to work or disabled, 
I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially as he wouldve been 
able to rely on getting only half his normal pay after 6 months off sick. 
The policy wouldve also protected Mr As credit card repayments if he lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. So I think PPI offered Mr A worthwhile benefits in his 
particular circumstances and the policy was suitable for him.  
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But based on all the information Mr A has 
told us, it doesnt look as if this affected him. 
Its possible some of the information Barclays gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr A chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to  so he 
appears to have wanted it at the time, even if hes forgotten this now. He couldve cancelled 
the PPI at any time if his circumstances changed or he didnt want to pay for it.
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered him, I think it unlikely Mr A wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think hed still have 
taken out the policy. So I dont find hes lost out as a result of anything Barclays did wrong  
and theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
Mr A has told us that he unfortunately had accidents that led to him taking time off work and 
losing his job. This information doesnt affect my decision. And I dont know when these 
things happened or if Mr A had PPI for his Barclaycard at the time. But if so, he may wish to 
approach the insurer to see if it would be prepared to accept and consider a retrospective 
claim. If he does so and finds that he has concerns in this regard, then he should first tell the 
insurer why hes unhappy. And if hes unable to reach a satisfactory conclusion, he may be 
able to bring a complaint relating to the retrospective claim to this Service as a separate 
matter. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman