DRN-3014853
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that The Salvation Army General Insurance Corporation Limited (SAGIC) 
avoided her buildings policy (treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay her claim.
What happened
As the property owner and landlord, Mrs R took out buildings insurance with SAGIC. She 
declared on her statement of fact that she let the property to working tenants. Following a 
fire at the property, which caused extensive damage and, sadly, a fatality, Mrs R claimed 
under her buildings policy.
SAGIC deemed the contract of insurance void due to multiple significant breaches of the 
following policy terms:
Section 2: Change in circumstances
Section 3: Claim Procedures
Section 5: Duty of Care
Disclosure of Material Facts
Briefly, SAGIC said Mrs R hadnt told it that the property was sub-let; she didnt comply with 
its investigation into her claim, and she hadnt carried out risk assessments. SAGIC said Mrs 
R hadnt taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation and it considered this to be 
a qualifying reckless and/or deliberate misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid the policy.
Mrs R brought her complaint to us, but our investigator thought it should not be upheld. He 
agreed thered been a qualifying misrepresentation, that it was deliberate or reckless, and 
that SAGIC was entitled to avoid the policy.
Mrs R didnt agree for several reasons, and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2021 explaining that I was intending to not uphold Mrs 
Rs complaint. Heres what I said:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
For ease, Ill explain why Ive provisionally decided not to uphold this complaint using the 
same headings SAGIC used to decline the claim.
Section 2 Change in circumstances
Sub-let
SAGIC thinks Mrs R failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation because 
she didnt tell it at policy inception that the property was sub-let.
Ive looked at the answers Mrs R gave when she took out the policy in September 2017. The 
Statement of Fact shows that she told SAGIC the property had two bedrooms and it was let 
to working tenants.
I can see that the lease agreement for the sole tenant, who Ill call Mr S, says the property 
was let for residential purposes only, as his only or main home, and should not be sub-let. 
Mrs Rs father, who Ill call Mr D, managed the property on her behalf, which means she 
retained responsibility for the property and the insurance policy. Ive looked at Mr Ds witness 
statement and he confirmed that Mr S went abroad in 2016 and they agreed that his tenancy 
would remain in place, although Mr Ss friend would live at the property and pay rent directly 
to Mr D.
Based on this evidence, Im satisfied that SAGIC fairly concluded the property was 
knowingly sub-let and Mrs R didnt take reasonable care to tell it when she took out the 
policy.
House in Multiple Occupation (HMO)
Mrs R says the property wasnt a HMO. Ive looked at the fire investigation report, which 
confirms there were three people living at the property at the time of the fire. The fire started 
in the downstairs front room, which was being used as a bedroom. It had a double bed and a 
single bed, an electric heater, and a lock fitted to the door. Both bedrooms upstairs also had 
locks fitted. The fire report confirmed the property was used as a HMO, so Ive considered 
the Government definition of a HMO:
a property rented out by at least 3 people who are not from 1 household (for example a 
family) but share facilities like the bathroom and kitchen. Its sometimes called a house 
share.
While Mrs R says the locks on the rooms dont mean anything, Im persuaded by the fire 
investigation report, along with police confirmation, that it was being used as a HMO. Mr D 
visited the property throughout the rental period, and when repairs were carried out. So, its 
reasonable to think he wouldve seen evidence of multiple tenants and locks on doors. As he 
was acting on Mrs Rs behalf, its deemed that she also wouldve known about the 
circumstances. Therefore, Im satisfied that SAGIC fairly concluded that Mrs R didnt take 
reasonable care to tell it that her property was being used as a HMO.
Section 3: Claim Procedures
Mrs R didnt agree that shed failed to comply with SAGICs requests for information. SAGIC 
said she hadnt complied because numerous appointments with her father were cancelled, 
preventing it from completing its investigation. SAGIC told Mrs R that it amounted to non-
compliance with the investigation. Ive looked at the claims procedure detailed in the policy 
booklet, which says:
In the event of a claim you must follow as far as is practicable the claims procedures 
Failure to do so may result in your claim being rejected or reduced or we may cancel your 
Policy from the start of the current period of insurance.Claims procedures
If you fail to comply with any of your responsibilities shown belowwe may at our option 
refuse to deal with your claimand we may cancel your Policy.
Your responsibility 
3. Provide all information and assistance that we may reasonably require without delay, 
including access to the site of the incident to enable us to deal with your claim.
Ive also looked at the emails between Mrs R and SAGIC and its clear that over the full 
claim period, several interview appointments were arranged with Mr D, followed by 
cancellation. While Mrs R sometimes provided an explanation  such as poor health and 
court hearings - I think its fair to say that SAGIC was unable to reconsider its claim position 
without obtaining key information from Mr D. Therefore, I think it was reasonable that SAGIC 
told Mrs R shed breached the claim procedure policy term.
 
Section 5: Duty of Care
SAGIC told Mrs R that shed breached the duty of care terms of her policy, which say:
You must:
(a) do all that is reasonably possible to:
(i) protect the property insured
(ii) prevent, or reduce the extent of, damage
(iii) prevent accidents or bodily injury.
Looking at the information Mrs R gave on her statement of fact when she took out the policy, 
she confirmed that the property didnt have smoke alarms. In her witness statement, Mrs R 
confirmed that she didnt undertake regular inspections of the property, and she was 
unaware whether Mr D had. She also said she hadnt completed a fire risk assessment, and 
she didnt know whether she had a gas safety certificate. The fire investigation report 
revealed that the electricity had been illegally bypassed. SAGIC gave further examples of 
why it believed Mrs R hadnt met her duty of care. Both parties are aware of those examples, 
so I see no benefit in repeating them all here. But, based on the information Ive seen, I think 
it was reasonable that SAGIC concluded Mrs R had breached the duty of care policy term.
Disclosure of Material Facts
Mrs R doesnt think its reasonable to expect her, as a landlord, to be aware of everything 
that happens in a let property. I understand what Mrs R is saying here but, as Mr D managed 
the property for her, its deemed that shed know what was happening. While I agree that its 
not reasonable to expect her to know if the tenant has a friend staying over, Mr D confirmed 
that he knew the tenant had moved out and his friend was staying and paying rent in his 
place. As landlord, its Mrs Rs responsibility to be aware of the legal requirements of 
property rental and ensure she had the appropriate safety inspections and licence.
I understand that Mrs R thinks the material facts to which SAGIC referred, are irrelevant 
because she declared that she didnt have smoke alarms, and that the property was let. I 
accept what Mrs R says here, and the evidence supports her. However, unless SAGIC is in 
possession of the full facts, it cant fairly or correctly offer cover. For example, Mrs R let the 
property but she didnt confirm it was then sub-let. For the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied 
that SAGIC fairly concluded that Mrs R hadnt disclosed material facts when buying and/or 
renewing cover.
As Ive decided that Mrs R failed to take reasonable care when providing information in 
respect of the four key areas SAGIC highlighted, Ive gone on to consider whether it made a 
difference. I think it did. I asked for underwriting criteria and a statement to confirm whether cover wouldve been 
offered with full knowledge of the facts. Due to commercial confidentiality, I cant disclose the 
information, but I hope Mrs R will trust that Ive considered the information fairly. 
Based on the underwriting criteria, its clear to me that SAGIC wouldve asked further 
questions had Mrs R told it about the sub-let and/or HMO status, with follow up questions 
about the duty of care. And in light of the correct responses to those questions, Im satisfied 
that it wouldve made a difference because SAGIC wouldve declined to offer cover. 
This means Im satisfied Mrs Rs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
SAGIC said Mrs Rs misrepresentation was reckless and/or deliberate because she didnt 
tell it that her property was sub-let in response to its clear and not misleading question when 
she took out the policy.
I agree that Mrs Rs misrepresentation was reckless and/or deliberate because she didnt tell 
SAGIC that the property was sub-let and/or a HMO even though she wouldve been aware of 
the change in tenancy status. Thats because the original tenant told Mrs Rs representative, 
Mr D, that the property was being sub-let to a friend, who paid rent directly to Mr D. 
As Im satisfied Mrs Rs misrepresentation should be treated as reckless and/or deliberate, 
Ive looked at the actions SAGIC can take in accordance with CIDRA.
Under CIDRA, an insurer is entitled to: 
avoid the policy and keep the premiums;
not pay the claim as, effectively, the policy never existed, and
recover any costs its paid to a third party on any claim after the misrepresentation.
In light of all this, Im satisfied SAGIC was entitled to avoid Mrs Rs policy in accordance with 
CIDRA, and it does not have to deal with her claim. As CIDRA reflects our long-established 
approach to misrepresentation cases, I think SAGICs reliance on it to avoid Mrs Rs policy is 
a fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mrs R didnt respond at all, and SAGIC accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As SAGIC accepted and Mrs R hasnt made any further submissions or evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Rs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman