DRN-3692245
The complaint
Mrs S complains that she and her husband were mis-sold a timeshare product and the credit 
facility used to pay for it. The credit facility was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited, which trades as Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. 
Mrs S is represented by a claims management business, which Ill call M. Where I refer to 
her submissions and arguments, I include those made on her behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S were existing timeshare owners and members of the Diamond Resorts 
European Collection, a timeshare and holiday club. 
On 16 June 2009 Mrs S says that she and Mr S attended a presentation while they were on 
holiday. Following the presentation, and as a result of it, they agreed to buy from Diamond 
Resorts (Europe) Limited (DRL) a further 4,000 membership points at a cost of £5,190. 
She says they did so because they were told that having additional points would help resolve 
issues they had experienced with availability of holiday accommodation.  
In order to fund the purchase, Mrs S was offered and agreed to take out a £20,000 running-
account credit facility with BPF. She used the facility to pay the purchase price of £5,190. 
She did not use it for anything else, and the balance was reduced to zero on 24 December 
2009. The account was closed in 2013.
In September 2018 Mrs S complained to BPF. She said that the timeshare product had been 
misrepresented to her and that, because BPF had financed its purchase, she had a claim 
against it in the same way as she had a claim against DRL. She also said that no proper 
checks had been made to ensure that she could afford to repay what she had borrowed, and 
that the actions of DRL and BPF had created an unfair relationship. 
BPF did not agree to meet Mrs Ss claims and did not uphold her complaint. Its main reason 
was the length of time that had passed since the timeshare sale the provision of the credit 
facility. 
Mrs S referred the matter to this service. Our investigator, however, took broadly the same 
view as BPF had done and did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs S did not 
accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint about the credit assessment
M says that BPF did not properly assess whether the credit facility was affordable for Mrs S. 
At the time, lenders were obliged to assess the affordability of loans and other credit facilities 
in line with guidance issued by, for example, the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), the Lending 
Standards Board and the Finance and Leasing Association.  
Our own rules say however that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is 
referred to us within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the 
date on which the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that they had 
cause for complaint.  
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in June 2009. I think it likely that Mrs S would have known fairly soon after that 
date if she was having difficulty making repayments. And I note that the credit was repaid in 
December 2009, so any difficulties she was having would have come to light by no later than 
that. It is arguable therefore that Mrs S had until June 2015 to refer this part of the complaint 
to us and that, because she didnt, we have no power to consider it.  
Even if I were to take a different view on that, however (perhaps because Mrs S would not 
have known the extent of BPFs obligations), I have seen nothing to suggest that the facility 
wasnt affordable. I note as well that the account statement which BPF provided to Mrs S in 
2018 did not include any interest or charges; it appears then that Mrs S may have had the 
benefit of an interest-free period, as provided for in the credit agreement.
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership. DRL was 
both party to the timeshare and was named as such in the credit agreement. The timeshare 
contract was therefore financed under pre-existing arrangements between DRL and BPF. 
I have therefore considered what the position might be if Mrs S were to bring a claim against 
DRL. 
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mrs S into the timeshare 
contract were made on or before 16 June 2009; since she and Mr S were already club 
members, its possible that they relied on what they were told or their own experiences even 
before that. Mrs S did not however raise any complaint with BPF until September 2018, 
more than nine years later. I think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any 
claim for misrepresentation was made outside the time limit in the Limitation Act. 
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether any underlying claim is now out of time under the Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether the response of BPF to the claim under 
section 75 was reasonable. Given the real possibility that a court would say that the claims 
are time-barred, I think it was. 
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In deciding whether to make an order, a court can have 
regard to any connected agreement; in this case, that could include the agreement for the 
sale of the timeshare product.
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the relationship between the parties ended. The credit facility was closed in 2013, which 
is less than six years before the complaint was made. However, the relationship between 
Mrs S and BPF (as debtor and creditor respectively) came to an end when the balance was 
reduced to zero by a payment covering the price of the timeshare. That happened in 
December 2009, nearly nine years before any complaint was made.  
I have no power to make an order under section 140B, and it is not for me to say whether a 
court would make an order if invited to do so. In the circumstances, however, I think that 
BPFs response to this part of the claim was reasonable. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to do anything further to resolve Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman