DRN-3720595
The complaint
Mr S complains that Starling Bank Limited declined a direct debit payment even though he 
had enough money in his account and they did not send him a notification about having 
insufficient funds to pay this.
What happened
Mr S says that on 31 January 2022, Starling declined a direct debit payment to a third party 
bank and they stated there were not enough funds in the account. As the payment to the 
third party bank was to pay a business loan, the third party bank reported the missed 
payment to the credit reference agencies (CRAs) a week before he had been notified. 
Once Mr S had been notified about this, he says he immediately settled the outstanding 
amount with the third party bank and then he investigated why the direct debit had failed. 
Mr S says that he noticed on 31 January, he had sufficient funds in his account for his direct 
debit to be processed, but some of the funds were within a space within the account that 
he labelled tax. Mr S says that this was a feature on his account which he believed Starling 
marketed this as being a visually separate amount, but within the same account. Mr S made 
a complaint to Starling.
Starling did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. They said prior to the direct debit declining on 31 
January, they sent Mr S a notification on 30 January which explained his payment was due 
the following day and on 31 January, they asked him to add funds to his account before 
16:00 if he wanted to make the payment. 
Starling said that at this time, Mr S had £80 in his Savings Space. They said this money is 
considered separate to his main balance and isnt automatically transferred to allow 
payments to be made. They said if a payment is due from the main part of his account, 
money isnt automatically moved and this is explained on their websites dedicated Saving 
Spaces page. Starling sent Mr S a weblink for their website and said this is also explained in 
their current account general terms and sent him a weblink to these also. 
Mr S brought his complaint to our service and said that Starling had closed down his 
complaint without giving him the opportunity to discuss the evidence they presented to him 
with a member of their team. He said Starling sent him a previous terms and conditions 
document, however, it couldnt be opened as it required a Starling staff member to sign in, to 
access the terms and conditions.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. She said she was satisfied that a 
notification was sent the day before Mr Ss direct debit was due and on the day of collection, 
asking him to add further funds. So she said Mr S had been notified beforehand of the direct 
debit being due. She also quoted the terms and conditions from 2019  that funds in Mr Ss 
Goals would not be used to cover recurring payments, for example direct debits. So as per 
the terms and conditions, the onus was on Mr S to ensure there were enough funds in the 
account before any payment was due to debit the account.
Mr S asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said Starling did notify him that a 
direct debit was due, but this was different from them explicitly notifying him that he didnt 
have enough funds to pay the direct debit. Mr S said that the extract our adjudicator 
mentioned referenced Goals and not Spaces, so the terms and conditions did not make the 
position for Spaces clear. He said if Goals are the same as Spaces then this should be clear 
to customers in the terms and conditions. He believes that Starling changed their terms and 
conditions after his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be focusing 
on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
I must explain to Mr S that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as 
such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how Starling have investigated his 
complaint such as them closing his complaint down and not engaging with him further, do 
not come under my powers to consider. 
Ive considered what Mr S has said about if Goals are the same as Spaces then this should 
be clear to customers in the terms and conditions. But it is not within this services remit to 
tell a business how to run their policies and procedures, such as their terms and conditions 
(and what should be included in there or how frequently they should update this document). 
It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power 
to instruct Starling to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Ive considered what Mr S has said about Starling notifying him that a direct debit was due, 
but this is different from them explicitly notifying him that he didnt have enough funds to pay 
the direct debit. So Ive looked at the evidence and I can see that Mr S was sent both a 
notification that a direct debit was due and that he didnt have enough funds in his account to 
pay the direct debit. 
I can see the notification to inform Mr S that the direct debit was due was sent on 30 January 
at 00:04AM. I can also see that Starling sent Mr S a direct debit insufficient funds notification 
on 31 January at 01:33AM. The message said Your payment to (third party) for £88.74 is 
due today. Add money before 4pm to make the payment. So Im satisfied that Starling did 
send Mr S a notification that he needed to add money into his account to make the payment 
that day. If Mr S did not receive the notification, I cant hold Starling responsible for any 
network or phone issues preventing the delivery of the message. It would be Mr Ss 
responsibility to ensure he would have enough money in the main part of his account to 
ensure his direct debits are paid. So I cant say that Starling have done anything wrong here.
Ive then considered what Mr S has said about the terms and conditions referencing Goals, 
but now it is called Saving Spaces. Starling have confirmed that they had changed the 
name of Goals and Saving Spaces, but they are one and the same. They also said that this 
was also reflected in the app and Mr S would be unable to see Goals any longer. So Im not 
persuaded that Goals works in a different manner to Saving Spaces or that either name for 
this feature would lead Mr S to believe that this money should have been used to pay his 
direct debit and Ill explain why.Starling have provided me with a screenshot which shows Mr S accepted version one of 
their general terms and conditions on 17 May 2020. The terms and conditions he accepted 
were dated 1 September 2019. In this document it describes how Goals work. I can 
understand Mr Ss frustration that Starling sent him a copy of this that he couldnt access, 
but Im aware that hes now seen this document. The following is from page six of the 
general terms and conditions at the time Mr S accepted them:
Where you have set up recurring payments (for example, direct debits) to be paid out of 
your Account, you must ensure you have enough funds available in the main part of your 
Account for those payments, as funds in your Goals will not be used to cover them. We will 
not be responsible for any failed payments from your Account as a result of insufficient funds 
being available in the main part of your Account.
So Im satisfied that this would have been clear to Mr S that when he set up his Goal of tax 
he would need to ensure that he had enough funds available in the main part of his account 
for recurring payments such as direct debits as his funds for his Goals would not cover the 
recurring payment. 
Starlings website shows that with Saving Spaces, Mr S could create visual spaces within 
your account for all your savings goals. Money is ring-fenced from your main balance. 
There is also a link to learn about Saving Spaces. Here, it says under What are Saving 
Spaces? that think of them as virtual piggy banks. They sit within your bank account, but 
the moneys kept separate from your main balance  so youll never accidently dip into your 
savings.
Starlings website makes it clear that Mr S would never dip into the savings and they are 
ring-fenced from his main balance, so Im not persuaded that Mr S shouldve been under the 
impression that either under Goals or Saving Spaces that his direct debit wouldve debited 
the area of his account he labelled for tax. 
Mr S set up the goal on 4 June 2020. But as Ive already mentioned, Starling had changed 
the name of Goals to Saving Spaces and Mr S would have seen the change of name in the 
application (app). So Im not persuaded that they changed the terms and conditions just 
because he complained, although I can understand why he may think this way as they 
issued their response to him on 4 March 2022, but their new terms and conditions were 
issued on 2 March 2022. It appears he made his complaint on 27 February, but the new 
terms and conditions were issued only three days later, while it appears Starling were still 
investigating his complaint. 
And Im not persuaded the new terms and conditions indicated that Spaces worked 
differently to Goals. So Im satisfied that the direct debit payment failed due to Mr S having 
an insufficient balance in the non-Spaces part of his account as opposed to an error on 
Starlings part. So it follows I wont be asking Starling to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman