DRN-3271992
The complaint
Mr O complains that Ageas Insurance Limited refused his request for a refund of premium in 
relation to his travel insurance policy. Reference to Ageas includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, on 15 February 2020, Mr O bought a single trip travel insurance 
policy for a trip which had planned departure and return dates of 22 April 2020 and       
29 April 2020 respectively. Mr O paid a premium of £23.87. 
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office, formerly the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. 
Mr Os trip was cancelled. I understand that the travel provider refunded the trip costs to 
Mr O. 
Mr O contacted his broker and asked for a refund of the premium hed paid for his travel 
insurance policy. Ageas offered to refund 50% of the premium Mr O paid. Mr O wasnt 
happy with that and pursued his complaint. During the course of the complaint, Mr O 
accepted Ageas offer but wants this service to consider whether that offer is fair. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. The investigator 
also explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had 
started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That 
means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it 
impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy 
started on 15 February 2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
He thought that the refund of 50% of the premium Ageas had already made was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr O didnt agree with the investigator. He didnt agree that Covid-19 didnt make it 
impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed. Mr O said that it was impossible for 
Ageas to fulfil the contract because all non-essential travel was banned, so the contract was 
null and void. He said that he couldnt go on the trip which was covered by the policy.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations, and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
If you do decide to cancel the policy during the 14 day cooling off period then your
premium will be refunded in full, provided no claims have been made or no incidents
have occurred that may give rise to a claim. Should you decide to cancel after the 
14-day cooling off period no refund will be given.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance doesnt oblige Ageas to refund the 
premium in the circumstances which arose here, that is, where the policy is cancelled 
after the 14 day cooling off period. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding  
Covid-19. In the circumstances of this case I think that Ageas offer of a refund of 
50% of the premium Mr O paid is fair and reasonable.
Ive noted what Mr O says but I dont agree that it was impossible for Ageas to fulfil 
the contract because of the advice against non-essential travel by the FCDO. As the 
investigator explained, Ageas covered the risk from the date Mr O took out the policy 
 15 February 2020  until the date the holiday was cancelled. If Mr O had cause to 
cancel the trip during that period and the reason for cancellation was covered under 
the policy, he could have made a claim against the policy. So, it isnt accurate to say 
that Ageas didnt perform part of the contract or that it didnt take on any risk.  
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint because I think that the payment Ageas 
has already made is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman