DRN-2084174
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complained because Metro Bank PLC refused to refund them for a transaction 
they said they hadnt authorised.
What happened
On 16 September 2019, three debits, all to different insurance companies, were attempted 
on Mr and Mrs Bs account with Metro:
- one was for £60.10 and didnt debit the account;
- a second was for £73.51. Initially Mr and Mrs B thought they hadnt authorised this 
one, but later confirmed they had;
- the third one was for £124.37. Mr and Mrs B said they didnt authorise this, and their 
complaint is about this debit.
Mr and Mrs B contacted Metro and complained. Metro didnt uphold their complaint. It said 
that the genuine transaction for £73.51, and the disputed one for £124.37, had been made 
by the same device using the same IP address. So it refused to refund them with the 
£124.37.
Mr and Mrs B werent satisfied and complained to this service. They also told us theyd 
contacted the insurance company to which the £124.37 debit had been made. That 
insurance company had confirmed that it had no record of Mr and Mrs B as customers.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. He said that Metros records 
suggested that all three payments were made from the same device. So if the second 
payment was genuine, it was likely that the others were too.
Mr and Mrs B said they were genuinely disappointed, and they werent the ones who had 
made the transactions. They said theyd also recently been victims of fraud again, with 
someone using their details for a gambling site, which neither of them had signed up for. 
They felt their details werent secure with Metro.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In that, I said that I was sorry to hear that 
Mr and Mrs B had more recently been victims of a gambling fraud. It must have been very 
upsetting for them.  I explained that I couldnt comment on that incident, because this service 
can only consider complaints which have first been referred to the bank, giving the bank an 
opportunity to issue a final response. 
So my provisional decision, and this final decision, only look at the 16 September 2019 
insurance debits, and whether or not Metro should refund Mr and Mrs B with the £124.37 
debit which they say they didnt authorise.
Regulations
The relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking place in September 2019 are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. 
The regulations say that the payment service provider (here, Metro) must first show the 
payment was authenticated. Thats the technical part, where the bank must show that it 
verified the customers identity using the correct security details. 
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments  in other words, whether they consented to the payment.
More information which I asked for 
I asked for more information from Metro, and also from the insurance company to which the 
£124.37 payment was made.
I asked Metro for evidence that the card number, expiry date, and three digit security code 
had been entered correctly. Metro said it couldnt provide this authentication information 
about the transaction.
I also asked Metro about the IP addresses used for the three insurance company attempted 
transactions. In its final response, Metro had told Mr and Mrs B that the reason it rejected 
their claim for a refund was that the device and IP address were the same. Two of the 
insurance debits attempted that day used one IP address, and the third used an IP address 
several hundred miles away. Neither address was close to where Mr and Mrs B live. Metro 
replied that it couldnt explain why this might be.  But it added that in its experience, IP 
geographical locations arent always accurate, and it a technical device might have been 
used to disguise the true location.
I also asked the insurance company whether it had any records for either Mr or Mrs B.  As 
Mr and Mrs B had told us, the insurance company confirmed that it didnt. I also asked for 
information about the disputed £124.37 transaction. It said that the £124.37 transaction had 
been attempted twice. It had been rejected the first time, then succeeded. 
The insurance company also said that the name on the card for the £124.37 debit had been 
a completely different name from Mr and Mrs B. And the insurance companys fraud team 
had picked up the transaction as identity theft of that individual, though it had never been 
able to get 100% confirmation. The insurance company said it had later refunded £35.65 to 
Mr and Mrs Bs card. Ive checked and this credited their Metro account on 15 October 2019. 
The insurance company told us that it was possible both Mr and Mrs B, and the other 
individual, had been subject to unauthorised payments.
Whats most likely to have happened?
I said in my provisional decision that the situation about these attempted payments was very 
confusing, and some of the evidence was incomplete. When this happens, I make my 
decision according to whats more likely to have happened.
First, Metro hadnt provided evidence that the disputed payment was authenticated. As Ive 
set out above, its a basic rule of the Payment Services Regulations that the payment service 
provider must provide evidence of authentication. Metro provided the device identification and IP addresses for the three payments, but it 
didnt provide clear evidence to show that the card number, expiry and security code were all 
correctly entered.  And a transaction then being made from another IP address, where 
theres no suggestion that a technical disguising method has been used, remains a good 
indicator that the genuine customer didnt make it, especially when viewed alongside 
everything else here. 
So I found that Metro hadnt provided evidence to show that the disputed transaction was 
authenticated.
I also considered the insurance companys replies. These showed there was something 
highly suspect about the transaction, with one other individual believed to have suffered 
identity theft. Id like to make clear that theres no suggestion that Mr and Mrs B might have 
been involved in this fraud. First, they were the people whose account was debited, so they 
suffered a loss. And the insurance company wouldnt have sent them a partial refund if its 
specialist fraud team had suspected theyd been fraudsters. I didnt have all the records of 
the insurance companys fraud team investigation, but it was clear that there was some 
element of fraud around this transaction. So I considered it was much more likely than not 
that Mr and Mrs B, like the other person whose name was on the card, were victims of 
identity theft.
For these reasons I considered that Mr and Mrs B didnt authorise the £124.37 payment. So, 
under the Payment Services Regulations, they were entitled to a refund from Metro.
The insurance company refunded £34.65 on 15 October 2019. So that left £89.72 for Metro 
to pay. Interest is payable on this at 8% simple, from 16 September 2019 to the date of 
payment.
I also considered the fact that Mr and Mrs B had suffered distress and inconvenience 
because of Metros mistake in not refunding them. Mr and Mrs B were upset and worried 
about the transaction. They told us theyd lost all their hopes, and didnt feel valued as 
customers, and nor did Metro care about their wellbeing. I could understand why they felt 
that. And I noted that Metro didnt have authentication evidence, and simply relied on the 
device identity, without considering the different IP addresses. Mr and Mrs B had gone to the 
trouble of contacting the insurance company, which had said it had no records of them. I 
considered Metro didnt sufficiently investigate whether or not Mr and Mrs B had been the 
victims of fraud. So I found that Metro should pay Mr and Mrs B £200 compensation for their 
trouble and upset.
Mr and Mrs B said thy were happy with the provisional decision.
Metro said it had no further comments.
Putting things right
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments. Having done so, I consider my 
original conclusions were fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I order Metro Bank PLC to pay Mr and Mrs B- £89.72, which is the £124.37 debit less the £34.65 refund sent to Mr and Mrs Bs 
Metro account by the insurance company on 15 October 2019; 
- Interest at 8% simple on this, from 16 September 2019 to the date of payment;
- £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs B by Metros 
failure to consider Mr and Mrs Bs complaint thoroughly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman