DRN-2302416
The complaint
Mr M complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to turn down his claim for storm 
damage under his buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr Ms roof was damaged. Mr M made a claim for storm damage under 
the policy. Ageas turned down the claim, as it didnt think Mr M had shown that a storm had 
damaged his roof. It thought he had also prejudiced the claim by having the repairs 
completed. Ageas also thought the damage was excluded under the accidental section of 
cover. 
Mr M didnt agree with Ageass conclusions, and so he brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Whilst she accepted there had 
been a storm at the time, she didnt think Mr M had shown that the storm was the main 
cause of damage to the roof. 
Mr M didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy covers him against damage caused by certain events, one of those being 
storm damage. 
Its accepted that there were storm conditions when the damage happened to Mr Ms roof. 
Mr M has provided an invoice from his roofer which says the ridge tiles and tiles blew off due 
to high winds. 
Ive also listened to a call that took place between Ageas and Mr Ms roofer. The roofer didnt 
feel able to say whether there had been wear and tear, but did say there had been a storm 
and this had led to slates being blown off all over the roof, in around 10 different places.
Tiles becoming dislodged from a roof is the sort of damage that is typically caused in a 
storm. 
When Mr M notified Ageas of the claim, he had already had the repairs carried out. His 
roofer took photos of the roof after the slates had been completed removed, but didnt take 
any photos of the damage allegedly caused by the storm. 
Ageass representative carried out a phone interview with Mr M in May 2020. He advised 
that his tenant told him there was a leak from the roof, and so he arranged for a roofer to 
attend. The roofer said there was a hole in the roof where the winds had blown some slates 
off. Mr M further said the roofer told him the other side of the roof needed replacing as the 
whole roof was in a bad state. The roofer then replaced the whole roof. Mr M also said the 
roof was the original roof, though he said it was in good condition.
Ageas asked a building contractor to review the photos Mr M had provided. They said that, 
based on the photos Mr M had sent in, it was difficult to say what the cause of the damage 
was, as all the slates and laths had been stripped from the roof. But based on the age of the 
property, as well as condition of the lean-to slate roof at the low level at the rear of the 
property, and the neighbours original slate roof - it thought Mr Ms roof could have been 
suffering from nail rot. 
I understand Mr Ms property was built in the early 1900s. Mr M has confirmed it was the 
original slate roof. Ive looked at the photos taken of a lean-to on the property, which appears 
to have its original slate roof. Visually, that roof appears to be in a poor condition, with 
several slates broken and some missing.
Unfortunately, Mr M didnt take photos of the damage before the main roof was completely 
stripped of all its tiles. However, the fact that all the tiles (and the laths) needed to be 
removed from the roof and completely replaced, would suggest that the main cause of 
damage wasnt the storm. 
I appreciate Mr M isnt claiming for the replacement of the whole roof, only the section where 
the tiles became dislodged in the storm. However, given that the whole roof needed to be 
replaced, I think its likely the storm merely highlighted that the roof was in a poor condition. 
And its difficult to understand why Mr M thought the roof was in a good condition, when he 
accepts that the areas of the roof which didnt have slates blown off in the storm needed to 
be completely replaced.
Mr M does have accidental damage under the policy. However, this specifically excludes 
maintenance costs and wear and tear. Given that Ive found it was likely the roof was in poor 
condition, I think this was a maintenance issue and therefore wouldnt be covered as 
accidental damage.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman