DRN-3021283
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains about the way National Westminster Bank 
Plc (NatWest) handled its application for a Bounce Back Loan.
Mr V is Ss director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
S opened a bank account with NatWest in September 2020.
Mr V applied on Ss behalf for a Bounce Back Loan with NatWest on 12 January 2021. 
NatWest wrote to Mr V the following day to advise that the application had been declined. It 
said this was because S wasnt trading as of 1 March 2020, which was an eligibility 
requirement under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. This was based on the fact 
that Mr V had said S began trading in August 2020 when completing the bank account 
application.
S was actually incorporated in 2014, so Mr V spoke to the bank about the companys prior 
trading and provided some evidence to show its activity. NatWest subsequently advised that 
S wasnt eligible for a Bounce Back Loan as the bank wasnt accepting applications from 
customers whod only opened accounts after 5 May 2020. 
Mr V complained. The bank apologised for incorrectly detailing the reason for the application 
being declined, but said that its decision was correct. So Mr V referred the matter to us. 
One of our investigators looked into things and said that while NatWests decision had been 
correct, it hadnt properly explained things to Mr V. And this had put S to some 
inconvenience  as Mr V had spent time and effort trying to evidence the companys trading 
unnecessarily.
NatWest agreed with our investigators recommendation to pay S compensation of £100 for 
the inconvenience caused, but Mr V didnt think this went far enough. He said that the banks 
mistake wasted valuable time that he needed to arrange alternative finance elsewhere  
ultimately requiring him to cease trading and sell personal assets to get by. He also said that 
a co-director held a personal account with the bank and yet it had still declined to help the 
company. So with no resolution, Ss complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the way the Bounce Back Loan Scheme operated, lenders had the discretion to 
decide the basis on which they were willing to accept applications  from both new and 
existing customers. NatWest decided that it was only willing to accept applications from 
customers who already held accounts with the bank before the Bounce Back Loan Scheme 
was introduced  i.e. prior to 5 May 2020. That was a decision it was entitled to make.
As S only opened its account in September 2020, it was never going to be eligible for a 
Bounce Back Loan with NatWest. So its right that the companys application was declined. I 
note what Mr V says about a previous director holding a personal account with the bank, but 
it was the company that needed to hold the account as it was applying for the loan rather 
than its directors. And this was reasonable  the bank wouldve needed information about S 
to complete its Know Your Customer and related checks, which wouldnt have been 
available from a directors personal account alone.
However, NatWest did make mistakes in how it communicated its decision to S. Rather than 
explaining that S was ineligible for the reason above, it said that the application had been 
declined because the company wasnt trading on 1 March 2020. That was valid  as it was 
based on information that Mr V had provided when applying for Ss bank account. But by 
only giving that reason, Mr V reasonably believed that it was worth challenging  as it was a 
mistake on the account application form, and S had been incorporated for a number of 
years. So he was engaged in further dialogue and correspondence with the bank 
unnecessarily  as the bank was never going to change its decision.
Its right that S is compensated for the impact that this error had on it. In this respect, Mr V 
says NatWests errors have caused S significant financial losses. But I dont see any link 
between the two-week delay in confirming the basis of the banks decision and the 
companys apparent inability to continue trading. It may legitimately have held off seeking 
alternative finance during this period, but I cant see that the relatively short delay made it 
any harder for S to arrange this thereafter. So while Im sorry to read of the difficulties that S 
has faced, I dont think they are the result of errors on NatWests part.
Rather, I think it is a matter of compensating S for the inconvenience that it was put to in 
following up with the bank when trying to evidence its trading (and thereby its eligibility for 
the loan). Mr V was engaged in unnecessary calls and correspondence with the bank on 
this. But the correct position was established quite quickly: the application was initially 
declined (with an incorrect explanation) on 13 January, before the bank confirmed its 
decision for the right reasons on 26 January. For the inconvenience that S was put to during 
that period, I think £100 is fair compensation  so thats what Im requiring the bank to pay.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require National Westminster 
Bank Plc to pay S compensation of £100.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman