DRN-4227729
The complaint
Mr G complains that Safe World Insurance Group (UK) Ltd declined a claim he made under 
a deposit protection insurance policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
Mr G paid a deposit for the installation of a heat pump by a company who Ill call E. 
He was provided with a deposit protection policy underwritten by Safe World.
Later, he cancelled the installation and asked E for his deposit back. When he 
thought he wasnt going to receive it, he got in touch with Safe World to make a claim 
under the deposit protection policy.
Safe World declined the claim because it said E was still trading. Mr G later got back 
in touch with Safe World when E was in liquidation. Safe World said the policy had 
expired by this time and the claim remained declined.
The policy ran for 120 days, from 25 January 2022 to 25 May 2022. It covered Mr Gs 
deposit during that time in the event E ceased to trade and couldnt meet the terms 
of its installation contract with Mr G.
The policy defines ceased to trade to mean, in summary, that E had stopped trading 
due to liquidation, receivership, administration, strike off or dissolution of a limited 
company  which E was.
On the final day of the policy, 25 May 2022, E was still trading according to the 
information available on Companies House.
Earlier in May, E had committed to returning Mr Gs deposit to him, so it was still 
functioning and communicating. It may not have been meeting its commitment or 
contractual obligation to him, but it hadnt ceased trading according to the policy 
definition.
In a nutshell, Mr Gs main point is that E had effectively ceased trading by the time he 
made his claim, even if that wasnt reflected on Companies House. This is primarily 
because E didnt meet its commitment to return his deposit. Im not satisfied that 
failing to make a payment promptly necessarily means E had literally or effectively 
ceased trading.
By February 2023, E was in liquidation according to Companies House, so it met the 
policy definition of ceased trading by that time. However, the policy had expired long 
before then.
Overall, Im satisfied Safe World acted fairly by declining Mr Gs claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman