DRN-2771561
The complaint
Miss H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc will not refund all of the money she lost after
falling victim to a scam.  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 24 March 2021. The background and 
circumstances of the case and the reasons why I was minded to uphold it were set out in 
that decision. I have reproduced the provisional decision in italics below:
Around lunchtime on Saturday 11 April 2020, Miss H received an unexpected phone call.
The caller told her he was calling from HSBC as there had been some unusual activity on
her bank account. Miss H says this panicked her because she hadnt used her account to
make any payments. Shes explained that at the time she was furloughed from her job and
staying at home due to the global pandemic.
Miss H thought she was speaking to her bank, but it was really a scammer impersonating
HSBC. Whilst Miss H cant remember exactly what the scammer said, she says that he knew
enough about her to take her though security procedures which felt authentic. She suggests
he knew her full name, date of birth, phone number and email address. The scammer told
Miss H that her bank account had been compromised and she needed to protect her money
by moving it to new accounts that had been set up for her. Miss H has told us shed never
heard of a safe account scam before it happened to her.
Miss H recalls that she was in a state of shock. She says she put the call onto speakerphone
and googled the phone number on her screen whilst the scammer was talking. She told us
she did this because she hadnt made any payments herself and wanted to be sure she
really was speaking to the bank. Shes provided a screenshot of her mobile phone call log
which shows that the phone number that appeared on her phone was the same as the
genuine HSBC telephone banking phone number. Miss H continued with the call as a result.
Whilst on the phone to the scammer, Miss H used her mobile banking app to make two
payments to new payees totalling just under £1,500. The scammer told her one account was
her new current account and the other account was her new savings account.
Miss H has explained that she believed she was talking to her bank so read out everything
that was coming up as part of the payment journey to make she was doing everything
correctly. She recalls the scammer spoke in a way that was very formal and calm. She
remembers he came across as kind, told her not to worry and reassured her that everything
would be sorted out. She says what the scammer said seemed to make sense.
The payments went straight through and didnt refer for any further checks.
Miss H says the call ended with the scammer explaining next steps. She says he told her the
bank would ring her back later that afternoon when her new accounts had been activated.
Miss H says the same caller contacted her around an hour later. She says he told her to
delete her HSBC mobile banking app and then download it again to see the new account
details. Miss H says she deleted her app but wasnt able to log back in, which didnt feel
right. She contacted HSBC to follow it up. It was at this point the scam was uncovered.
HSBC contacted the receiving bank but was unable to recover any of the money Miss H had
sent. It also considered whether it ought to refund Miss H for her loss. HSBC is a signatory
to the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM or the CRM Code) and so considered
its obligations under it.
On 23 April 2020, HSBC wrote to Miss H. It said it should have done more to protect and
advise her before she made the payments  it felt it couldve given her more effective
warnings. But it felt Miss H could have taken more responsibility and conducted more checks
before making the payments too. So it thought they should share the responsibility and
offered to refund half of the money Miss H had lost. It refunded £748.20 directly into Miss Hs
current account.
Miss H complained. She thought HSBC should have refunded all of the money shed lost.
She pointed out the number that called her was the HSBC telephone banking phone
number.
HSBC looked into Miss Hs complaint but did not change its position. It issued its final
response on 4 May 2020. It said she was partially liable for the scam as she couldve done
more to protect herself. It said it would expect Miss H to question the request and call the
bank to confirm it was genuine before making any payments. It thought Miss H should have
questioned why the caller couldnt provide her with any of her personal details or
transactional history. It thought Miss H should have done more than she did to verify the
caller.
Miss H was unhappy with HSBCs response and asked us to review the matter.
Our investigator looked into things. On 30 July 2020, he contacted HSBC and said he
thought it should have refunded Miss H in full.
He noted HSBC had refunded Miss H with half of the funds lost because it could have given
her more effective warnings that this may have been a scam. But he thought Miss H did
have a reasonable basis for believing she was speaking to the genuine bank. He pointed out
the scammer did have access to some of her personal details and had been able to
persuasively mimic HSBCs genuine phone number. He was persuaded by what Miss H had
said about the scammer giving plausible explanations and thought it was common for
scammers to coach victims through the payment screens. He pointed out the scammer was
able to convince Miss H that the call was genuine to such an extent that she was still
convinced the call was from a legitimate source when she contacted HSBC to follow up
about her new accounts.
When HSBC did not respond, the file was prepared for an ombudsman to consider.
On 3 November 2020, HSBC contacted us to say it was still looking into the matter.
On 13 November 2020, HSBC responded in full and disagreed with the investigators view.
It said the offer to reimburse half of the money Miss H sent was in compliance with the CRM
Code and was fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances.
It said it disagreed strongly with the investigators position that Miss H had a reasonable
belief that the payments were for genuine services or that the person with whom she was
transacting was legitimate.It felt that Miss H did not meet her requisite level of care and should rightly bear some
responsibility for her loss. It also suggested that the facts might separately justify a finding of
gross negligence as Miss H behaved in a grossly negligent manner in making the payments.
In summary, it noted that:
Miss Hs personal characteristics are a relevant consideration under the CRM Code
and she is not vulnerable or unsophisticated.
It wasnt clear if the security questions the scammer asked Miss H were the same as
what HSBC would normally ask a customer
Miss H chose not to heed red flags. It pointed to guidance provided about this type of
scam on both the banks own website and the Financial Ombudsman Service
website
The banks key concerns with the investigators application of the CRM Code are
whether Miss H had a reasonable belief in respect of each of the three factors set out
at paragraphs R2(1)(c)(i)-(iii) of the CRM Code and whether Miss H behaved in a
grossly negligent manner. It does not consider it was possible to have had a
reasonable belief in any of these three factors in this case, especially as Miss H
wasnt expecting a call from HSBC and there had been no unusual activity on her
account.
Miss H chose to ignore was [sic] when the scammer said that the funds would have
to be moved to a new account set up for her. There is no explanation why the
customer did not challenge why the account was not opened up at HSBC, but at
another Bank or how HSBC could open up an account for her immediately at another
Bank without her authority or documentation. Miss H clearly had suspicions on the
call and it is not considered that she made the payment with a reasonable belief that
the person she was transacting with was legitimate. The payments to the new safe
accounts were also set up under different names to herself.
In this case there were a series of highly concerning factors which should have
alerted Miss H that this was a scam, including a cold call, the scam being extremely
well known and Miss H having concerns on the call. It pointed out the account details
provided do not belong to HSBC as is clear from the sort code. It said we consider
that Miss H has failed to take reasonable and appropriate steps to protect herself
from fraud in this case. Aside from the striking facts, it appears that Miss H has failed
to carry out even rudimentary checks which she should have done in order to
establish a reasonable belief. We do not accept that a customer cannot be expected
to carry out any checks whatsoever. She should have terminated the call and rang
HSBC separately to verify the details.
Miss H ignored an effective warning when making the payments.
The signs that this was a scam were obvious without requiring any research or
checks.
It felt Miss H was grossly negligent because the circumstances described had the
hallmarks of a scam, including the requested payment method, the receipt of a cold
call from an organisation of trust, the sense of urgency and the non-HSBC account
details. Grouped together, it is difficult to accept that Miss H was not grossly 
negligent. Individuals acting reasonably would have simply terminated the Scam Call. 
At the very least, acting competently, one would have expected her to make separate 
enquiries, such as calling HSBC. She carried out no such steps to verify the Scam 
Call or assess whether the potential fraud was genuine. It is our strong view that 
taking account of all the circumstances, Miss H clearly behaved in a grossly negligent 
manner.My further questions
When the matter was referred to me, I contacted Miss H to ask her some questions about
the scam. She told me that she didnt remember seeing any warnings from the bank when
she made the payments, but she did remember receiving an activation code text. 
She explained that she read out the activation code text to the scammer as he was helping 
her to complete the payment process. She explained that having to recall the scam again 
now made her feel angry about what had happened. She reflected that it all felt so real, he 
had answers to everything and spoke like HSBC would.
I also contacted HSBC in response to some of the points it had raised. I pointed out it wasnt
clear what the banks position in relation to effective warnings was on this case. It had
already agreed to refund Miss H for half of the money shed sent, on the basis it had not
provided her with an effective warning about the scam before she made the payments. 
But the banks response to the investigators view included a screenshot of the warning it 
says Miss H would have seen and suggested that she had ignored it. The bank did not 
provide any further details to show that Miss H had specifically selected a warning that 
aimed to prevent her falling victim to an impersonation scam.
I looked at the screenshot the bank had provided. Even without full details of the payment
journey, I suggested the warning was not impactful and not given in a way that would have
positively impacted Miss Hs decision making. I noted that the layout of the warning was poor
and it was possible to input the account details and click to the next stage without reading it.
I thought the prominence was on saving the payee details and the fraud alert text was much
smaller, and easier to miss. I noted the warning was placed alongside an information icon,
which could have been interpreted as being optional information rather than critical or
essential information.
I also thought about what the bank had said about Miss H being grossly negligent in her
actions. I didnt consider that she had behaved in a clearly grossly negligent manner. I didnt
think Miss A had disregarded or acted with indifference towards the risk of her bank account
being compromised and money being stolen. I suggested she was actually under the
opposite impression and that if she didnt do as the scammer asked, she risked losing her
money. She genuinely believed she was working with the bank to protect her money.
I suggested that in similar circumstances, a reasonable person would have acted in the
same way Miss H did here.
HSBC responded and made the following points:
It said the fraud alert text is prominent and that you cant fail to notice it on the
mobile app screen.
It said the warning it gave was clear, concise and unambiguous in stating HSBC will
never ask you to move money, but criminals will. It felt this ought reasonably to have
caused Miss H to at least pause for thought, causing sufficient doubt that what was
being asked of her was not all that it seemed.
Miss H ought to be held liable on the basis of contributory negligence, if not gross
negligence.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer
even though they authorised the payment.
Of particular relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code),
which HSBC has signed up to.
Under the CRM Code the starting proposition is that a firm should reimburse a customer who
is the victim of an APP scam, like Miss H. But  except in cases where a customer is
vulnerable to APP scams  a firm may choose not to reimburse (at its discretion) if it can
establish that one of the limited number of exceptions to reimbursement apply.
The CRM Code says that (so far as the potential exceptions to reimbursement are relevant
to this complaint):
Principle
R1 Subject to R2, when a Customer has been the victim of an APP scam Firms should
reimburse the Customer
Exceptions
R2(1) A Firm may choose not to reimburse a Customer if it can establish any of the
following matters in (a) to (e). The assessment of whether these matters can be
established should involve consideration of whether they would have had a material
effect on preventing the APP scam that took place.
(a) The Customer ignored Effective Warnings, given by a Firm in compliance with
SF1(2), by failing to take appropriate action in response to such an Effective Warning
given in any of the following:
(i) when setting up a new payee;
(ii) when amending an existing payee, and/ or
(iii) immediately before making the payment
(b) 
(c) In all the circumstances at the time of the payment, in particular the characteristics of
the Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP scam, the Customer made
the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: (i) the payee was
the person the Customer was expecting to pay; (ii) the payment was for genuine
goods or services; and/or (iii) the person or business with whom they transacted was
legitimate.
(d)
(e) The customer has been grossly negligent. For the avoidance of doubt the provisions
of R2(1)(a)-(d) should not be taken to define gross negligence in this context.I have not set out the other matters in full. But it is important to note that a firm may choose
not to reimburse if it can show any one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement apply
(unless the consumer was vulnerable to APP scams).
I have thought about how the CRM Code applies in the circumstances of the payment
Miss H made and, in particular, whether HSBC ought to reimburse her under the
provisions of the Code.
Did Miss H make the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that the payee
was the person she was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or
services, and/or the business with who she was transacting with was legitimate?
HSBC hasnt reimbursed Miss H in full is because it doesnt consider Miss H had a
reasonable basis for belief the payments she was making were legitimate.
In summary, it doesnt consider Miss H had a reasonable basis for believing she was
genuinely speaking to the bank. It feels she should have done more checks to verify the
caller and that she missed some concerning details about the overall situation. But
I think the banks expectations of Miss H are too high in the particular circumstances of
this complaint.
HSBC has pointed out that its unclear whether the security questions Miss H recalls the
scammer asking were the same as the questions the bank genuinely asks. But
I wouldnt expect a customer to know the precise security questions a genuine
organisation would ask. Impersonation scams succeed because of the look and feel of
the overall experience. Scammers are clever and mimic the operations of trusted
organisations to gain confidence. From what we know about this type of scam, I think it
is more likely than not that the experience would have felt very close to speaking to the
genuine organisation  thats why these types of scams are so successful. Miss Hs
recollections of the scammers tone and demeanour during the call further support this.
HSBC has indicated that this is a well-known scam and has highlighted warnings and
education that it has provided on its website, along with information aimed at consumers
from other trusted organisations. It has also suggested that Miss H had concerns about
the legitimacy of the situation during the call. But Miss H has told us that she wasnt
aware of the precise details of this type of scam until after it happened to her and I have
no reason to disbelieve this. Shes explained she thought she was speaking to the
genuine bank and thought the bank was helping her. From what has been said and
provided to me so far, Im persuaded Miss H genuinely believed she was speaking to
the bank and had no concerns that it might not have been at the time she made the
payments. I dont think Miss H would have agreed to make the payments if shed
thought there was a possibility that she was going to lose her money.
HSBCs submissions outline that it does not consider that Miss H had a reasonable
basis for believing she was talking to the genuine bank. It has pointed out that she
wasnt expecting to make these payments because this was a cold call. But I dont
think it was unreasonable for Miss H to think she was speaking to the genuine bank.
Im mindful that banks can and do call customers to discuss transactions that appear as
potentially fraudulent activity and those genuine calls can be unexpected and out of the
blue.
When thinking about whether a customer has a reasonable basis for believing the
payee was the person they were expecting to pay, HSBC should bear in mind the
nature of the scam, as well as its customers capacity to weigh up the situation they are
in at the time and whether they are able to make an informed decision about whether toproceed with making payments. Safe account scams are successful because they
create a sense of fear and panic.
Miss H thought she was doing the right thing and moving her money in order to protect
it. Shes told us that she didnt know that scammers could pretend to be a bank, or that
a scammer would be able to convincingly replicate the banks genuine telephone
number. She has described feeling in a state of shock when she was informed that her
account had been used to make payments and explained that the experience made her
feel scared. I am persuaded that Miss Hs primary motivation when making the
payments was to protect her money and I dont think she missed obvious details that
would have uncovered what was happening. Scammers are masterful at creating a
sense of urgency and short-term time pressure, capitalising on and exploiting the trust a
customer feels in the legitimate organisation and its authority.
HSBC has indicated that Miss H should have picked up on the sort code for the
payments not belonging to the bank and that she should have questioned how it would
have been possible to open new accounts for her without her documentation. But I think
the banks expectations here are far too high. At the time of the scam, Confirmation of
Payee was not in place so there was no facility built in for Miss H to check and confirm
the name on the account being paid. Miss H was in a stressful situation. In that moment,
I dont think it would be reasonable to have expected her to notice the subtle differences
in the sort code, or for Miss H, as a lay person without much knowledge or experience
of the banking system, to have known how sort codes work. Miss H has described
feeling panicked and I dont think she would have been able to think rationally about the
steps that need to be taken to open a bank account at that time. I am persuaded that
Miss H genuinely thought she was moving the money to another account that she would
hold and control. I dont think it would have been obvious to Miss H that what she was
being told was not possible and nor do I think should it have been obvious.
Im also satisfied that Miss H had a reasonable basis for believing that she was
interacting with the genuine bank. HSBC has repeatedly said that Miss H should have
terminated the call and contacted HSBC to determine its legitimacy. But I think this is a
too high of an expectation for the bank to place on Miss H, especially as she has said
that she wasnt aware of a safe account scam and didnt know that scammers
impersonated banks or could replicate phone numbers. Im especially mindful that
HSBC did not warn Miss H that number spoofing is a feature of impersonation scams.
HSBC considers that Miss H failed to carry out even rudimentary checks. It goes on to
suggest that the scam was obvious and didnt require any further research or checks to
uncover. But HSBC approaches this matter from a position of considerable knowledge
and experience of this type of scam compared to what Miss H had at that time. When
Miss H received the phone call, her recollections show that she did recognise that what
she was being told about her account being compromised as being out of the ordinary.
She has explained that she put the caller onto speakerphone and used a search engine
to research the phone number that appeared on her screen whilst on the call. She has
provided a screenshot of her phones call history and it shows an incoming phone call
from a number that matches a genuine bank telephone number. Miss H has explained
she didnt know it was possible for a scammer to mimic the banks phone number.
When Miss H checked the number on the internet, she saw that the call came from a
phone number which was legitimately used by the bank. I dont think it was
unreasonable for Miss H to have been reassured by this.
Im not persuaded the average consumer would understand that they still might not be
talking to the genuine organisation, even when the callers number belongs to that
genuine organisation.From what Miss H can recall of this stressful situation, its clear that the scammer knew
some of her personal details, and enough to persuade her that was speaking to her
bank. Shes explained how the demeanour of the scammer during the call felt authentic.
Safe account scams are very sophisticated and its likely the scammer used a range of
persuasive techniques to trick, deceive and manipulate Miss H.
For all the reasons Ive explained, I think Miss H did have a reasonable basis for
believing the payee was who she wanted to pay, that it was genuine and that the
business that she was transacting with was genuine. HSBC needs to be realistic in its
expectations of what constitutes reasonable when understanding the level of checks,
diligence and any element of social engineering which has occurred given the
circumstances of the scam and the customer.
Was Miss H grossly negligent?
HSBC considers what happened to have been an obvious scam, which didnt require
any research or checks to uncover. It suggests Miss H has acted with significant
carelessness and that it was difficult to accept that she was not grossly negligent.
It has since said that if Miss H wasnt grossly negligent, she ought to be held liable on
the basis of contributory negligence. Contributory negligence isnt one of the listed
exceptions to reimbursement under the CRM Code. In any event, taking account of a
consumers own actions is inherent when considering whether a customer has met their
requisite level of care under the CRM Code and I have done this when considering
whether Miss H had a reasonable basis for belief and acted reasonably in all the
circumstances. But for the avoidance of doubt, even outside of the Code, I am satisfied
there was no contributory negligence on this occasion. Miss H was simply the unwitting
and blameless victim of a clever fraudster.
Gross negligence is one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement under the CRM
Code. It would require a very significant degree of carelessness on Miss Hs part. I am
not persuaded her actions or inaction in this particular case meet that very high bar.
I dont think Miss Hs actions show a lack of care that goes significantly beyond what a
reasonable person would have done in the same situation. I dont think she disregarded
or acted with indifference towards the risk of her bank account being compromised and
money being stolen. I am persuaded she was actually under the opposite impression
and that if she didnt do as the scammer asked, she risked losing her money. She
genuinely believed she was working with the bank to protect her money  and as Ive
already explained, in the circumstances, I dont think Miss Hs belief was unreasonable.
Shes explained how everything the scammer told her sounded plausible. I think in
similar circumstances a reasonable person would have acted in the same way Miss H
did here.
Effective warnings
Its my understanding HSBC has not reneged on its initial conclusion that it ought to
have done more to protect Miss H from falling victim to a scam, though in response to
the view HSBC has said that Miss H ignored an effective warning.
I have carefully considered the banks representations about the warning it gave. But they do 
not persuade me to reach a different view. In particular I am not persuaded that the
consumer failed to take the requisite level of care required for the firm to choose not to
reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.In this case Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not
met because:
Im not persuaded HSBCs warning was impactful enough in the context of this scam
to meet the minimum requirements of an effective warning under the CRM Code. Im
not persuaded its more likely than not that the warning HSBC provided in this case
would positively affect customer decision making in the way required by the CRM
Code.
Miss H has described how powerful the scammers social engineering techniques
such as number spoofing were and this feature wasnt described meaningfully in the
warning. Im not persuaded the average customer would understand that pretending
to be HSBC could amount to someone managing to spoof HSBCs telephone
number. This feature and tactic is well-recognised by firms, but the warning didnt, in
my view, do enough to highlight the level of sophistication involved in pretending 
such as telephone number spoofing. This means that a customer wouldnt be able to
appreciate the risk that they might not be talking to a genuine organisation, even
when the callers number belongs to that genuine organisation.
The warning did not include appropriate action for Miss H to take to try and protect
herself from a safe account scam.
The warning did not make it clear what the consequences of making the payment
could be if they didnt take steps to protect themselves  such as the risk of losing
their money.
The layout and positioning of the warning lacked impact. It appeared underneath
where a customer is expected to complete the payment details and so I dont think it
was prominent enough in the circumstances to be impactful  particularly given the
nature of this type of scam where it is very common for the fraudster to coach their
victim through making the payment  as was the case here. Whilst HSBC says you
cant miss it Im afraid I dont agree. Miss H has said that she didnt see the warning
and given its positioning, presentation and the fact she was being coached through
the payment journey by a fraudster I can understand why.
Overall, in this particular case, I agree with HSBCs initial conclusion that it did not provide
effective warnings in compliance with SF1(2). When it made that finding, it accepted that it
ought to have done more than it did and recognised that it bears some responsibility for
Miss Hs loss. I think that was the right thing for it to have done in the individual
circumstances of this case, for the reasons Ive explained.
Overall
Overall, I am persuaded that Miss H did meet her requisite level of care and I dont believe
HSBC has established it was able to choose not to refund her under the Code.
In the circumstances I think it ought to have fully refunded Miss H under the provisions of the
CRM Code and so it should fairly and reasonably refund the remainder of that loss now.
Putting things right
The Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which as Ive
explained, Im satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all of the money that
was lost.
So I think its fair that HSBC refunds the remaining £748.20 Miss H lost, along with 8%
simple interest from the date HSBC decided not to refund her under the Code until the date
the funds are returned.In my provisional decision I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or 
arguments that they wanted me to consider by 21 April 2021.
Miss H accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. HSBC did not 
respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that this complaint should be upheld. As neither party 
has provided me with any further evidence or arguments to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings which I have outlined above and form part of this final 
decision.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Hs complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
Ive decided that Miss H ought reasonably to have been fully refunded. I therefore direct 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay her:
The remaining 50% of the money she lost - £748.20;
Interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date it should have accepted Miss Hs claim under the CRM 
Code to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman