DRN-2563460
The complaint
Ms As complained about the way Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) dealt with her when 
she bought a travel insurance policy from them in January 2020. 
What happened
At the start of 2020, Ms A moved overseas for work.  She was due to return to the UK in 
July.
Shortly after she left the UK, Ms A was due to take a trip to the Philippines.  She bought a 
travel insurance policy online from IPA to provide cover for that trip.  The policy included 
cover for travel disruption caused by natural phenomena such as volcanic ash clouds, 
tsunamis or hurricanes.
A couple of days after she bought the policy, Ms A called IPA to find out if she could make a 
claim.  There was disruption in the Philippines due to volcanic activity and she was worried 
about travelling there.  Following a conversation with an IPA representative, Ms A was 
emailed a claim form.  The representative advised her that he couldnt guarantee that any 
claim she made would be successful.
Ms A subsequently decided to travel.  Unfortunately, she was delayed on her outward 
journey - which meant she missed a connecting flight and had to pay for an alternative. 
Ms A submitted a claim for delays and the missed flight to IPA.  IPA considered her claim  
but declined it. They said that Ms As trip had started on the day shed left the UK and would 
continue until she returned in July  so it exceeded the maximum length of trip covered 
under the policy (31 days).
Ms A complained.  She said that, when she contacted IPA to first discuss a claim, shed 
explained that she was working outside the UK.  She said that shouldve alerted IPAs 
representative to the fact that the policy was of no use to her.  And, if hed done that, she 
couldve cancelled it, as their conversation took place within the 14 day cancellation period.  
IPA looked into the complaint.  They didnt change their decision to decline Ms As claim.  
But they did offer her £75 compensation for a lack of clarity in their communication with her.  
And they suggested she contact the sales team to request a refund of the premium shed 
paid, on the basis the policy was of no benefit to her.
Ms A wasnt satisfied with this resolution and brought her complaint to us.  Our investigator 
considered her complaint but didnt think IPA should have done anything differently.  He 
noted that the policy defines a trip as:
 any holiday, business or pleasure trip or journey made by you within the area
of travel shown in the schedule which begins and ends in your home area
and home area is defined as:
for residents of the United Kingdom excluding Channel Islands and the Isle
of Man, your home area means the United Kingdom excluding Channel Islands and
the Isle of Man.
So he said Ms As trip to the Philippines didnt fall within the definition of a trip because it 
didnt start from the UK.  And, if the trip was defined as starting in the UK, it exceeded the 31 
day maximum trip length.
Ms A didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that Im not upholding Ms As complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ms A bought her policy online.  So she was responsible for making sure that it was suitable 
for her needs.
Ive seen the policy states that its only available to permanent UK residents.  Id have 
expected that to alert Ms A to check whether it was suitable for her.  But Ive read the 
definition of a permanent UK resident.  And I can understand why  if shed clicked on the 
definition  Ms A mightve thought she fell within it.
But the policy schedule brought to Ms As attention that she should:
familiarise yourself with your cover to ensure that it meets your needs and personal 
circumstances.
And the policy document itself makes clear that Ms A wouldnt be covered.  Even though she 
was living overseas, Ms A completed the application as a permanent UK resident, giving her 
UK address.  Its clear from the sections of the policy Ive quoted above that means her 
home area is defined as the UK.  And, for a trip to be covered, it must start and end in the 
home area.  Ms As trip didnt do that  so it was reasonable for IPA to decide it wasnt 
covered by the policy.  
Ms As told us she was unhappy IPAs representative didnt tell her the policy wouldnt cover 
her when she rang to enquire about making a claim.  Ive thought about this.  IPA have said 
that Ms A contacted their claims department, who wouldnt check cover unless a claim was 
lodged.  
I think this explanations reasonable.  As I said above, it was for Ms A to satisfy herself the 
policy met her needs at the time she bought it.  And I dont agree that IPAs representative 
should have known from what she said that the policy wasnt suitable. 
Ive listened to the calls.  And I dont think Ms A was as clear about her situation as she 
believes she was.  She told the representative that she wasnt in the UK.  And she told him 
she wouldnt be returning to the UK until July.  But its not clear to me from those calls she 
was working overseas and had been when she bought the policy.  I only know that because 
thats what Ms A told us when she asked us to consider her complaint.
Im pleased to see that IPA have paid Ms A some compensation.  And Ms As confirmed 
theyve refunded the premium she paid.  But I dont think IPA shouldve dealt with this any 
differently.  So I dont think they need to do anything more to resolve Ms As complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms As complaint about Inter Partner 
Assistance SA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman