DRN-2760208
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank plc failed to correctly amend his address when he asked it 
to. He also complains about the way Lloyds Bank plc handled his complaint.
What happened
Mr M had a number of accounts with Lloyds. He contacted Lloyds and asked it to change the 
address which appeared on his statements and other correspondence. He says he was re-
mortgaging and needed to provide copy statements which showed the correct address.
He says the first agent he contacted confirmed that the change had been made and it would 
be updated within a couple of hours. Mr M says his address was not updated within this 
timescale. He contacted Lloyds again.
He says that the second agent he spoke to initially confirmed that the address had been 
changed. He then read the address to Mr M and it hadnt been updated. Mr M says that the 
second agent accused him of lying when he queried why he had initially said the address 
had been amended. Mr M says that during this call he was put on hold for lengthy periods of 
time. So, he complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds investigated his complaint. Lloyds said the first agent had changed the address, but 
its system hadnt accepted the change because the address differed from the address 
recognised by Royal Mail address. But it said it could override the system by entering a 
correspondence address.
Lloyds didnt agree that the second agent had accused Mr M of lying. And, it didnt accept Mr 
M had been put on hold for a lengthy period of time. It said thered been pauses during this 
call. But it said these had been necessary to record Mr Ms complaint. So, it partially upheld 
his complaint. It offered to pay him £75 by way of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience and £12 for his telephone calls. Lloyds increased this amount to £112 (in 
total) and paid this into Mr Ms account.
Mr M says he had to raise further complaints about the way he was spoken to by the 
complaints team. He says hed told Lloyds he didnt want a specific member of its complaints 
team to contact him. But he says this request was ignored.
Mr M says hed told Lloyds he had dyslexia and that because of this he couldnt read 
correspondence. Hed asked Lloyds to contact him before sending correspondence so that it 
could read the correspondence to him. But he says Lloyds failed to take this seriously or 
adapt to his needs. He says it sent him letters about his complaint without contacting him in 
advance.
Lloyds says Mr M only gave it consent to record the information about his dyslexia on 17 
January 2020. It says it made a note on its systems, on this date, about Mr Ms dyslexia
and it agreed to contact him by telephone before sending any correspondence to him. It 
subsequently asked him if there were any other ways it could support his needs such as 
using coloured paper. But Mr M reiterated that the support he wanted was to receive a 
telephone call before correspondence was sent to him.
Mr M says that Lloyds didnt update his correspondence address in the way he required or 
the way hed been told it would. So, he complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. She said that Lloyds hadnt updated his address 
correctly and she thought it couldve done more to make the amendment Mr M had 
requested. So, she upheld this part of his complaint. She thought Lloyds should amend his 
address or propose what steps it could take to ensure Mr M received statements with the 
amended address.
Our investigator said our service could only consider how his complaint had been handled 
where it was an extension of the problems caused by the original complaint. So, she thought 
the call where Lloyds had informed him of the outcome of the complaint could be considered 
by our service. She said Lloyds had followed the correct process during this call. So, she 
didnt uphold this part of his complaint.
She said we couldnt tell Lloyds what its complaint process should be as this wasnt a 
regulated activity. So, we couldnt investigate any other aspects of how Lloyds had handled 
his complaint.
Our investigator also considered what Mr M had said about his dyslexia. She said that our 
service couldnt determine if a business had discriminated since that was a matter for the 
courts. But she said we could consider whether hed been treated fairly. She thought that 
Lloyds had taken his disability into account when it had telephoned him to discuss its 
findings. But she did note that during subsequent calls, Lloyds had referred to its final 
response letter and it wasnt entirely clear it was aware of Mr Ms dyslexia. So, she thought it 
needed to do something more.
In order to put things right our investigator thought that Lloyds should amend the address on 
its systems and pay Mr M a further £75 by way of compensation for the trouble and upset 
hed been caused.
In response, Lloyds said it had now updated Mr Ms correspondence address. It said this 
address would appear on any mail sent to him but wouldnt necessarily appear on his online 
banking unless he was using his online banking to access mail that had been sent to him. It 
agreed to pay him a further £75.
Mr M said that despite what Lloyds has said, the address on his statements was still 
incorrect. Lloyds said this was because he was viewing a transaction listing and not a copy 
of the statement which was also available online.
Our investigator considered the matter further. She said Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong 
after it had agreed to update the correspondence address on its systems. So, she didnt 
require Lloyds to do anything further.
Mr M didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.At the outset, Id just like to deal with an issue which Lloyds has raised about the scope of 
the matters which I can consider when deciding this complaint. The main reason why Mr M 
has raised a complaint is because he says Lloyds failed to change the address it held for his 
bank account.
Lloyds has made representations to our service stating that we cannot include in our 
considerations anything about how it handled the complaint which Mr M raised. It says that 
complaint handling is not regulated and so these matters fall outside of our jurisdiction.
Ive thought about what Lloyds has said and Ive considered the rules which apply to our 
service. These are set out by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Handbook (available 
online). The rules, found in DISP 2.3.1R make clear that the matters we can consider include 
regulated activities or any ancillary activities carried on by the firm in connection with 
them. The meaning of these words is found in DISP 2.1.4G which explains that the manner 
in which a respondent (in this case Lloyds) has administered its business is an activity that is 
subject to our jurisdiction.
So, Im satisfied that, when considering this complaint, I can take into account any activities 
which flowed from the administration of the banking contract Mr M had with Lloyds.
Mr Ms instruction to Lloyds
Mr M contacted Lloyds on 17 January 2020. He said he needed to print out the statement for 
his current account, but he wanted Lloyds to change the address. He says he needed the 
address changed because he was applying for a remortgage and the new lender wanted a 
copy of his bank statement.
Lloyds has now changed the address on Mr Ms statements and some of his other 
correspondence. It says it cannot change the address on all of the correspondence it sends 
to Mr M. It says it has entered the address Mr M has requested as a correspondence 
address. So, that address will appear on his statements. But it says it cannot change the 
address held on its central system because that system uses Royal Mail address formats to 
manage the accuracy of its address data.
Ive thought about the solution Lloyds has now put in place and I think it is fair and 
reasonable. Mr Ms statements can now be downloaded and printed out from his online 
banking and they will have the address in the format he requested. And I wouldnt expect it 
to have to do anything more. Some of Mr Ms correspondence is still being delivered to him 
at the address where he lives. So, he is receiving it - and hes confirmed that to us.
Ive then considered the issues that have arisen in terms of how Lloyds dealt with Mr Ms 
request.
Delays
Mr M made his request on 17 January 2020. But it was May 2020 before the address for his 
statements was changed. Ive looked at the reasons for this delay.
When Mr M contacted Lloyds, it initially told him the change would be made in a couple of 
hours. But when this hadnt happened, he phoned Lloyds again. He was told, incorrectly, 
during the call that the address had been changed. He then raised a complaint.
Lloyds contacted him on 18 January 2020. It explained that its central system used the 
address format provided by Royal Mail, but it said it was possible to change the correspondence address to the format Mr M had requested. The representative agreed to 
make this change.
Lloyds paid Mr M £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused when it hadnt changed 
his correspondence address when he contacted it on 17 January. It agreed to do that on 20 
January. But it hasnt been able to explain why it didnt make this change until May 2020.
I think this was an unreasonable delay. And Ill consider what additional compensation 
Lloyds should pay Mr M as a result, later in this decision.
Unclear communication
Mr M has told us that he continues to receive correspondence from Lloyds which does not 
have the address in the format he requires. And hes complained that when he prints out 
statements from his online banking the address there is also not in the format he requires.
Lloyds hasnt provided Mr M with a clear explanation of which documents will have the 
address in the format he wants - and which will not. For example, its told us that whilst 
transaction listings printed out from his online banking will not have the address in the format 
he requires, his statements can be downloaded and these will have the address in the 
format he wants. Its also explained that certain other documents about his account will not 
have the address in the format hes requested.
Id have expected Lloyds to have made all of this clear to Mr M. It hasnt done that, and this 
has caused distress and anxiety for Mr M. It now needs to make this clear to Mr M. And, Ill 
also consider what further compensation Lloyds should pay Mr M because of this, later in 
this decision.
Long delays during the telephone calls on 17 January
Mr M asked Lloyds to change his address on its systems on 17 January 2020. He was told 
that his address would be updated online in a couple of hours. When that hadnt happened 
Mr M contacted Lloyds again. He spent about 30 minutes on this call.
During the second call Mr M was initially told that the address had been updated but it then 
became clear that it hadnt. Mr M complained hed been given wrong information and been 
accused of lying. He was then transferred to the complaints team where he says he had to 
repeat his complaint again.
I agree with Mr M that he was initially given incorrect information on the second call and he 
was put on hold. Lloyds says this was because of issues when its systems had frozen. He 
was then put on hold for just over ten minutes whilst the call was being transferred to the 
complaints team.
I can understand why Mr M was frustrated about how his request had been dealt with and 
how long hed spent on the phone.
It is the case that when things go wrong, as happened here, the customer will have to spend 
time talking to the business. And, sometimes that means a call will be put on hold or the 
customer will be kept on the line whilst details are being recorded on the businesss 
systems. Taking these factors into account, and having listened to the calls, Im not 
persuaded that the time spent on these calls on 17 January 2020 was excessive. I can see 
Lloyds did subsequently pay Mr M £12 for the time hed spent on these calls. I think that was 
fair and reasonable.Mr Ms request not to be contacted by a named adviser
Mr M complained about how he was spoken to when Lloyds phoned him on 18 January 
2020. He asked Lloyds to investigate this and said he didnt want this person to contact him 
again.
Lloyds told him that it would look into how he was spoken to but that this was an internal 
matter and he wouldnt be told the outcome of any investigation.
Infact, the same person did contact Mr M on 20 January 2020. So, Ive listened to the calls 
about this aspect of Mr Ms complaint.
During the call on 18 January the adviser provided Mr M with the outcome of his complaint. 
She accepted that Lloyds had made mistakes when hed asked it to change his address. But 
she explained that whilst it could change the correspondence address for his statements, 
this would need to be actioned by a specialist team within Lloyds and agreed to refer it to 
that team. She wasnt able to complete this herself. She agreed that Lloyds had made 
mistakes and offered to pay Mr M compensation for what had happened. She offered him
£75 for distress and inconvenience and £12 for the time hed spent on his calls.
It is the case that the call ended abruptly. I can see the reason for this was because Lloyds 
representative wasnt willing to agree to Mr Ms request to increase the compensation 
offered to £90 (in total). There was a pause during the call when the representative said she 
was consulting her notes again. After this pause she said she wasnt willing to increase the 
offer of compensation.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with this and said hed refer his complaint to our service. He also said 
that although the representative told him she had consulted her notes he knew for a fact 
shed actually spoken to a manager. He also was unhappy because the representative 
wasnt willing to give him an exact time when shed call him back. He did raise his voice at 
this stage of the call and was warned that the call would be terminated if he continued. He 
said he wanted her manager to call him. He again raised his voice. The representative was 
unhappy at how she was being spoken to. She said Mr M wasnt very polite and she ended 
the call.
Having listened to this call, Im satisfied that Lloyds representative dealt with all of the points 
hed raised in his complaint. Im also satisfied she ended the call, after having warned Mr M 
about how he was speaking to her. So, Im not persuaded Lloyds did anything wrong during 
this call.
Mr M did raise a complaint about how hed been spoken to during this call. And he told 
Lloyds he didnt want the same representative to speak to him again. But that didnt happen. 
He was called back, by the same representative, on 20 January.
Ive thought about why this happened and the impact it had on Mr M. Having done so, Im 
satisfied Lloyds is entitled to make its own arrangements regarding who deals with individual 
cases. The representative he spoke to had already investigated the case and was familiar 
with the facts. So, I think it was fair and reasonable that she should call Mr M back.
When she did do that Mr M initially said he had asked for her not to call him. She said there 
was no record of that, but she was the person responsible for looking into his complaint. And 
there was then a discussion about what had happened on the previous call. The 
representative said if he didnt want to speak to her she would end the call and send him a letter setting out her complaint findings. Mr M said this was unacceptable, given the 
information hed provided about his dyslexia. Ill comment further about this below.
After that the representative did proceed to go through the complaint findings with Mr M. Mr 
M didnt stop her from doing this and did engage in the conversation with her. She agreed to 
increase the offer of compensation to £112 (in total). He agreed to accept this, without 
prejudice to his right to raise a separate complaint about the fact shed called him back when 
hed asked for this not to happen.
Lloyds told Mr M it thought this matter should be dealt with internally rather than being a 
separate complaint. Mr M said that a manager should listen to the call. He also thought 
Lloyds should treat this as a separate complaint and provide him with an outcome. Lloyds 
hasnt done that.
I have considered the complaint Mr M raised about how he was dealt with during the call on 
18 January. For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied the representative acted fairly and 
reasonably during the call on 18 January. I agree Mr M did tell Lloyds, later on 18 January 
2020, he didnt want the representative to phone him back. Despite that she did call him 
back on 20 January 2020. But, during that call, the representative offered to end the call 
because of what hed said. He agreed to continue the call and did engage in the 
conversation.
So, having thought about the issue Mr M has raised about these telephone calls, Im 
satisfied Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr Ms dyslexia
Mr M has told our service that he has dyslexia. And he says hed told Lloyds about this and 
asked it not to send him correspondence, without first contacting him and reading that 
correspondence to him.
Our investigator explained to Mr M that our service cannot make determinations about 
discrimination since that it is a matter for the courts. We can look at whats fair and 
reasonable, taking into consideration the laws, regulations and circumstances of each case.
Having done so, I can see Lloyds recorded on its system that Mr M had dyslexia. That entry 
was made during a call on 17 January 2020. Ive listened carefully to what was said during 
that call.
Mr M said hed already given information to the branch about his dyslexia. So, he thought 
this shouldve been recorded. But it hadnt been. He said he wasnt going to go over old 
ground about why this was the case.
Ive also looked at Lloyds records and I dont see any indication that this information had 
been recorded prior to 17 January 2020. And, although Mr M says he mentioned it to branch 
staff, theres no evidence he agreed to have this information recorded. I think that may be 
because he says he was concerned this might mean he was treated as being stupid or that 
he might be regarded as an imbecile. He mentioned this during the call on 17 January and 
the adviser assured him that if the information was recorded that would not mean he was 
treated in the way he feared.
So, Im satisfied, on balance, Lloyds made a record of his dyslexia as soon as he provided 
his consent for it to do so. That consent was given on 17 January 2020. The adviser thanked 
Mr M for sharing this information and asked for his consent to record it on Lloyds systems. This is in line with what wed expect it to have done.
During the conversation the adviser assured Mr M that if Lloyds could assist him in any way 
it would do so. He explained that he couldnt read correspondence  so there was no point 
sending it to him. He said he didnt object to correspondence being sent to him, but he 
wanted Lloyds to ring him and read the correspondence to him, before it was sent.
The adviser said shed make a note on Lloyds systems to say that he didnt want any letters 
or correspondence to be sent to him unless he received a telephone call before these were 
sent. Mr M didnt ask Lloyds to provide any further support to him. And, having listened to 
the call I think the adviser did accurately capture what Mr Ms needs were and the support 
he required from it.
The adviser asked Mr M if he wanted to record details about his complaint reference. He 
agreed to do this, and she called out the information to him. She was considerate towards 
him when he asked for extra time to write down this information.
Im also satisfied that Lloyds took account of this information when it telephoned Mr M, on 18 
and 20 January 2020, to discuss its findings about his complaint and before sending him its 
final response letter.
When Mr M spoke to Lloyds on 17 January he was very clear about what type of support he 
needed. Subsequently Lloyds did ask him if he needed any other type of support, such as 
coloured paper or larger font, but Mr M didnt appear to want to explore these options. He 
reiterated that he wanted to be phoned before correspondence was sent to him.
Mr M says that, after 17 January 2020, Lloyds told him during telephone conversations that it 
would send correspondence to him without offering to phone him first. He had to remind it he 
didnt want correspondence to be sent to him. I agree with Mr M that he shouldnt have had 
to repeat this information and I think he wouldve found it distressing when he had to do that.
Ive noted three instances where this happened during telephone calls  on 18 January 
2020, on 20 January 2020 and again on 20 February 2020. I agree that this shouldnt have 
happened, and it wouldve caused unnecessary distress because Mr M had to explain again 
what his needs were. As our investigator said, I think this is something that should be 
reflected in the level of compensation awarded to Mr M.
What should Lloyds do to put things right
In my findings Ive said that Lloyds delayed amending Mr Ms correspondence address on its 
systems. It didnt do that until May 2020  which was almost five months after hed 
requested it to do so. It hasnt offered any explanation for that delay. I dont think its fair or 
reasonable for Mr Ms request to have been delayed in this way.
Ive thought about how this delay impacted Mr M. He says he needed the address to be 
changed so that he could provide information to support a re-mortgage application he was 
making. Lloyds says he shouldve been able to explain to the re-mortgage company why his 
address appeared the way it did. There was a reasonable explanation based on what Mr M 
had already told Lloyds about how the address on his statements was the same as the 
address recognised by Royal Mail.
I agree with what Lloyds has said here. Im not persuaded that the delay in changing the 
address wouldve impacted the re-mortgage application in a way which meant it couldnt 
have proceeded. But I agree that Mr M should reasonably have expected his request to be carried out much sooner. And, I also think Lloyds shouldve clearly explained to Mr M the 
details of the solution it was going to put in place. Not all of his correspondence would be 
sent using the address format hed requested.
Hes had to spend time pursuing this matter in order to get it completed. And hes been 
inconvenienced as a result. In order to compensate him I think Lloyds should pay him an 
additional £100 for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced as a result of its delay 
and failure to explain what types of documents would have the address in the format hed 
requested.
Ive also thought about what Mr M told us about how Lloyds dealt with his request not to 
send correspondence to him without firstly phoning him. I agree that Lloyds recorded this 
correctly on its systems as soon as it obtained Mr Ms consent. It did agree to make 
adjustments in the way hed requested. And I can see it did phone him to tell him the 
outcome of his complaint before sending him its final response letter. I think that was fair and 
reasonable.
Having said that, there have been examples subsequently where, despite the notes on the 
system, Mr M has had to remind Lloyds about his dyslexia. He shouldnt have to do that and 
hes experienced distress as a result.
As mentioned above, there have been at least three instances where this has happened. I 
think thats not because this isnt recorded correctly on Lloyds systems but rather because 
the advisers havent read the note on the system before speaking to Mr M. So, I think Lloyds 
should pay additional compensation of £100 to Mr M for the distress hes experienced as a 
result.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to partially uphold this 
complaint about Lloyds Bank plc. I intend to uphold the following parts of Mr Ms complaint:
Lloyds Bank plc delayed carrying out Mr Ms instruction to change his address and 
hasnt provided a reasonable explanation for that delay. It also hasnt explained to Mr 
M what documents he can expect to receive with the address in the format hes 
requested;
Lloyds Bank plc acted in a way which required Mr M to have to remind it about his 
dyslexia, even though hes already provided consent to have this recorded on Lloyds 
systems.
I intend to require Lloyds Bank plc to take the following action:
Lloyds Bank plc should pay Mr M £312 (in total) for the distress and inconvenience 
he experienced and the cost of his calls. It has already paid him £112 and an 
additional £75 following our investigators view being sent to it. So, it should now pay 
Mr M an additional £125 by way of compensation for distress and inconvenience, in 
order to resolve this complaint.
I dont intend to uphold any other parts of this complaint.
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision and agreed to pay the compensation set out.
Mr M didnt accept my provisional decision. He made several points which are set out below:
Lloyds hadnt called him to read the outcome of his complaint. He said hed been called and told that the person he spoke to was on annual leave. He says Lloyds 
arent being transparent about this matter.
He hasnt been told what accounts Lloyds has changed his address on. Hes still 
getting letters addressed differently to what he requested, and he thinks this needs to 
be looked at again.
He says that where post isnt addressed in the way hes requested it doesnt get 
delivered to him. He says he has to collect the post from the post office which is 
inconvenient.
He says other financial organisations have been able to change the address on their 
systems  so he cant understand why Lloyds cant do this too.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision, I have not changed my 
view about how this complaint should be resolved. Ill explain why.
When Mr M asked Lloyds to change his address on its systems he told it that he needed 
the address on his statements to be in a particular format. He said he needed this to 
support a re-mortgage application. So, when considering this complaint, Ive taken into 
account whether the actions Lloyds took were fair and reasonable  given what Mr M had 
asked it to do.
Lloyds has changed the address on Mr Ms statements. He can now download these 
from his internet banking and print them off. The address is in the format hes requested.
In my provisional decision I explained that, due to system constraints, Lloyds said it hadnt 
been able to change the address on all of his correspondence. But, it had now taken the 
necessary action to change the address on its systems in a way which met the request Mr 
M had made. I thought that solution was fair and reasonable.
I did refer to the unreasonable delay Mr M experienced before Lloyds actioned his request 
and I also referred to the fact that Lloyds hadnt clearly communicated with Mr M. For 
those reasons, I thought it should pay him additional compensation.
Ive considered further what Mr M says about post thats being sent to him. He says he 
has to go to the post office to collect this post because its not being delivered to the 
address Lloyds is using.
Lloyds told us it checks the address it sends correspondence to against the Royal Mail 
post code finder (available online). I think thats fair and reasonable. And it is sending 
correspondence to the address, in the format listed there, for Mr Ms postcode. So, having 
thought about this, I dont think Lloyds is responsible for what hes told us about post not 
being delivered.
Mr Ms told us about how other providers have dealt with his requests to change his 
address. But, in this decision, I can only consider how Lloyds has actioned his request.
When responding to my provisional decision, Mr M also mentioned that Lloyds didnt 
phone him to tell him the outcome of his complaint. I listened to several telephone calls and Im satisfied that during the calls on 18 and 20 January, he was told what the outcome 
of his complaint was.
I understand that Mr M raised a complaint about how he was spoken to on 18 January and 
Lloyds told him he wouldnt be contacted about the outcome of that complaint. I 
commented on this in my provisional decision. I explained that I had listened to the call 
made on 18 January and I was satisfied Lloyds had acted fairly and reasonably during that 
call.
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision, I havent changed my view, 
that for the reasons set out there, Mr Ms complaint should be upheld in part and he 
should be paid additional compensation of £125 to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
 For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint, in part, about Lloyds Bank plc. I now 
require it to:
Pay Mr M £312 (in total) for the distress and inconvenience he experienced and the 
costs of his calls. Lloyds Bank plc has already paid him £112 and a further amount 
of £75 by way of compensation. So, it should now pay Mr M an additional £125 by 
way of compensation for distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of 
what happened.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman