DRN-2788505
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that U K Insurance Limited gave them incorrect information about 
a claim against their travel insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes reference to its 
agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs L have travel insurance as the benefit of a current 
account. In June 2020, Mr and Mrs L booked a trip whilst the Foreign and Commonwealth 
Offices (FCO) advice about all but essential travel abroad was in place. They didnt wish to 
travel. On 8 August 2020, Mrs L phoned UKI and asked if they could make a claim against 
their travel insurance policy. Ill refer to that phone call in more detail below. 
Mr and Mrs L dont complain about their claim being declined under the policy but say 
that UKI misled them about making a claim and put them to the trouble of gathering 
evidence. In response to the complaint, UKI paid compensation of £50 in relation to 
service issues. Mr and Mrs L didnt think that was sufficient and want compensation of 
£250.
The background facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr L in particular has very strong feelings about this matter. Hes provided 
detailed submissions to support the complaint. Ive read through all this carefully and taken it 
all into consideration when making my decision. 
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint and Ill explain why: 
Its common ground that Mrs L phoned UKI on 8 August 2020. UKI cant provide a 
recording of that call. Thats not unusual as not all calls are recorded and retained. 
As I cant listen to the recording of the call I cant say for sure exactly what was said. 
Mr and Mrs L say that in the phone call on 8 August 2020, UKI told Mrs L that it 
would pay their claim if she provided certain information from the airline and credit 
card provider. Mrs L then spent time gathering the relevant information.
On balance, I dont think that I can safely conclude that during the phone call on        
8 August 2020, UKI promised to pay Mr and Mrs Ls claim. It would be unusual for an 
insurer to agree to pay a claim before the claim was made and before its had an 
opportunity to consider the information provided. 
I think its more likely than not that on 8 August 2020, UKI agreed to consider           
Mr and Mrs Ls claim and gave Mrs L information about the sort of evidence shed 
need to support their claim. But I think that UKI should have told Mrs L that it couldnt 
consider their claim, as what happened here didnt come within terms of their policy. 
When insurers make an error like the one here, we dont proceed on the basis that 
the incorrect information is true, we look to see the effect the error had on the 
consumer. Here, Mrs L was put to the trouble of gathering information and               
Mr and Mrs L were no doubt disappointed to discover the true position. I think that 
the compensation of £50 UKI has already paid is fair and reasonable in this case. In 
reaching that view, Ive taken into account the nature, extent and duration of UKIs 
error in this case. So, I dont direct UKI to pay any more. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint, as I think that the compensation 
UKI has already paid is fair and reasonable.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman