DRN-3425552
The complaint
Mr S complains Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) unfairly avoided his motor 
insurance policy from the start and declined a claim he made on it.
There are several parties and representatives of Calpe involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Calpe.
What happened
Mr S had an accident in his car in October 2021. He made a claim on his motor insurance 
policy with Calpe.
When Calpe looked into Mr Ss claim it was noticed he had not disclosed all his motoring 
convictions. 
Mr S said he did declare his convictions as he believed he should. He said he didnt try to 
hide anything. He had just input it wrong.
Calpe said It believed Mr Ss non-disclosure of his conviction when questioned during the 
purchase of his policy was a deliberate or reckless act, and it voided his policy on 
18 November 2021. It said f it had been aware of this conviction it would not have offered 
insurance on the same terms
As Mr S was not happy with Calpe, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He looked into the case and said as Mr S had 
not provided accurate information when setting up his insurance policy, the actions taken by 
Calpe to avoid his policy are in line with The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012.
As Mr S is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Calpe thinks Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
took out his policy. It said Mr S made a reckless or deliberate misrepresentation when he 
failed to disclose the correct details regarding his motor convictions in his application for his 
motor policy. And for this reason Calpe has avoided Mr Ss policy, refused his claim, and 
didnt return his premiums
Ive looked at the details in Mr Ss policy terms and conditions. It says:
7. Inaccurate or misleading Information
When asked if You or anyone acting on Your behalf
 misleads Us in any way, in order to obtain this Insurance, obtain more favourable
terms or to reduce the premium payable
 misleads or fails to accurately answer questions which affect either the terms and 
conditions or the premium of this Insurance or Underwriters accepting Your cover, including 
as to who is the main driver of the Your Car, information relating to claims, no claims 
discount, motoring convictions, criminal convictions, Modifications to Your Car and its use;
We or the Underwriters may
 Immediately avoid Your Policy from the start date of the Policy. If Your Policy is avoided as 
a result of section 7 Underwriters will not pay any claim and in certain circumstances may 
retain any premiums paid.
 Alternatively We or Underwriters may revise the terms of the Policy and/or reduce 
proportionately the amount to be paid on a claim.
 Alternatively We or Underwriters may write to You cancelling the Policy from the date 
specified in the letter and refund to You any premium paid in respect of the balance of the 
Policy term. Recover from You any costs incurred by Us or any of Our agents.
I think this document is clear about the consequences of what may happen if inaccurate 
information is provided.
I saw that Mr S did disclose some motoring convictions but not all of them. I checked the 
application for motor insurance questionnaire and saw there is a clear question as follows; 
In the last five years have you received any motoring convictions, driving licence 
endorsements or fixed penalties, and/or have you been disqualified from driving (Including 
any pending prosecutions)?. I checked the statement of insurance document that Calpe 
sent to Mr S and I found it is clear that only two convictions are listed. And so I am satisfied 
that Mr S misrepresented his situation to Calpe.
Calpe has provided evidence of its underwriting guidance that shows although it would have 
offered motor insurance cover to Mr S if it had been aware of all his convictions, it would be 
on different terms. This supports Calpes position that it wouldnt have offered him the same 
cover if it had been aware of all his convictions. 
This means I am satisfied Mr Ss misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Calpe has said it believed Mr Ss non-disclosure of his conviction when questioned during 
the purchase of his policy was a deliberate or reckless act, so it avoided his policy on 18 
November 2021.
Mr S agrees he did not answer accurately. He said he just input it wrong. I understand that 
mistakes can be made accidently but Mr S had the opportunity to notice his mistake and let 
Calpe know of the missing details when he received his policy documentation.It is Mr Ss responsibility to provide accurate information when taking out a policy and also 
his responsibility to read and check his policy documentation to ensure the information he 
provided was accurate. 
Mr S said he had also contacted Calpe, in June 2021, to make a claim when someone 
crashed into him. He said the issue with not disclosing all his motoring offences should have 
been noticed by Calpe then. 
I checked this and Calpe said Mr S did contact them to inform them about damage to his car 
by a third party, but a claim was not made. It said Mr S did mention a previous driving ban 
during this call rather than a specific conviction. It said as Mr S was not pursuing a claim on 
his own motor insurance policy it did not investigate or review the information provided. It 
said if he had submitted a claim, the misrepresentation would have come to light at that date
I think Mr S failed to take reasonable care to declare all his motoring convictions.  I think that 
Mr Ss misrepresentation was either deliberate or reckless as he either did not check his 
policy documentation and notify Calpe of the missing motoring conviction or he deliberately 
chose not to disclose it.  
As Im satisfied Mr Ss misrepresentation should be treated as deliberate or reckless, Ive 
looked at the actions Calpe can take in accordance with CIDRA.
Calpe have avoided Mr Ss policy. It has not paid Mr Ss claim or refunded his premiums.
If the qualifying misrepresentation is reckless or deliberate as long as it would have made 
some difference to the policy Calpe would have offered, it can avoid Mr Ss policy back to its 
start date. It doesnt matter what the difference would have been as long as there would 
have been a difference. This means his policy can be treated as though it never existed. 
Calpe would not need to reimburse Mr S for his policy premiums. 
As I think it is correct that the misrepresentation has been classified as reckless or 
deliberate, the actions taken by Calpe are in line with the remedies detailed in CIDRA. Calpe 
can avoid the policy back to the start and does not have to return any premiums back to Mr 
S.
Therefore, although I understand Mr S will be disappointed and this matter has caused him 
some distress and financial loss, I think this is a fair and reasonable outcome. 
I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint and do not require Calpe to do anything else in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman