DRN-3565759
The complaint
Mr G and Ms M complain about charges that they had to pay TSB Bank plc which they 
consider they shouldnt have to pay.
What happened
Mr G and Ms M took out a mortgage with TSB in January 2016 and paid it off in January 
2022.The term was 22 years and two months and they had to pay £1 per month for a 
mortgage administration fee. Mr G and Ms M understood that if the mortgage finished early 
so would the administration fee, but they were asked to pay a further £193 which they think 
is unfair as the mortgage isnt going to last 193 more months.
Mr G and Ms M also complains that the information from TSB is confusing as regards the 
early repayment charge (ERC). Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint 
should be upheld as he felt that TSBs paperwork fairly identified the administration fee and 
that it would have to be repaid and the ERCs and how they worked. Mr G and Ms M 
disagreed and asked for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G and Ms M object to paying off the remaining part of the loan of £265 that formed part of 
their mortgage which they took out in 2016. From the original mortgage offer I see that they 
borrowed £265 to pay off what was called a Mortgage Account Fee  this is described as a 
fee to cover the setting up, routine maintenance and closing down of the mortgage account. 
The fee is described as non-refundable and was added to the loan when the mortgage 
started. That fee is set out on the mortgage offer and we would expect Mr G and Ms M to be 
aware of it when they agreed to take out the loan with TSB. I see that the rate of interest on 
that loan was 0% and the monthly repayment was fixed at £1 per month. Mr G and Ms M 
wanted to repay the mortgage early. They still owed the balance of the £265 that they 
borrowed at the start and I consider that its fair that TSB included that balance in the 
redemption figure and asked Mr G and Ms M to repay what they borrowed.
The second issue as I understand it is that Mr G and Ms M didnt understand how the ERCs 
worked and found the information provided by TSB confusing. The ERCs that would apply 
for early redemption are set out in the 2017 mortgage product offer at Section 7 and say 
during each of the five years of the fixed rate product that if the mortgage is redeemed early 
that TSB will charge an ERC based on a percentage of the mortgage balance at the time the 
mortgage is redeemed. The percentages decrease each year and Section 7 sets out what 
those percentages are and the dates between which those percentages will apply. Mr G and 
Ms M say that these arent defined very well. Im sorry they feel that way but its fairly 
standard in mortgage documents to set the ERCs out this way and I dont consider hat TSB 
has done anything wrong and it seems to me that its fairly straightforward to see what the 
percentage is and when it applies. Mr G and Ms M have shown us two annual statements 
that show by way of example what the ERCs would be if they redeemed early on 30 
December 2020 and 30 December 2021. The percentage is 2% and then1% as set out in 
the mortgage product offer. The actual percentage isnt set out in the annual statement - I 
got it by a simple calculation - but its clearly set out in the mortgage product offer. For the 
reasons set out above, I dont accept that Mr G and Ms M have been misled or overcharged 
by TSB and I cant fairly uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman