DRN-4155297
Complaint
Miss P is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) registered a fraud prevention 
marker against her.
Background
In July 2022, Miss Ps account received a payment of £1,000.00. £750 funds were 
immediately transferred on to a third-party and the remaining £250 was transferred to an 
account is Miss Ps name. Starling was subsequently contacted by a third-party bank who 
confirmed that its customer had reported being scammed into making the payment to      
Miss Ps account. Starling reviewed Miss Ps account and as a result of its investigation, it 
decided to close her account and record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Miss P complained that this was applied 
unfairly. Starling looked at Miss Ps complaint and didnt uphold it. As Miss P remained 
dissatisfied she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ps concerns. She didnt think that Starling had 
done anything wrong or treated Miss P unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Miss P disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Starling has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss P is guilty of fraud or a financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that Starling must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Miss Ps account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Starling also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss P was deliberately dishonest 
in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. 
This can include Miss P allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss Ps complaint, I need to decide whether I think Starling had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss Ps account and that her actions 
suggest she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Starling did 
have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more 
detail. 
Miss P initially told Starling that the payment into her account was made by her partner in 
order to pay rent. Miss P subsequently told our adjudicator that the payment was from a 
friend who was returning money that shed lent to them a couple of years before. When 
pushed on why the funds came from someone with a different name, Miss P said that she 
didnt notice and was simply happy to get her money back as shed been owed this money 
for some time.
Ive thought about what Miss P has said. But Im afraid that Miss Ps version of events simply 
isnt plausible. The first thing to say is that Miss P supplied information to Starling at the time 
the funds arrived, arguing that the funds were for a rent payment to her. 
Secondly, Miss P now says that the funds were owed to her by a friend as shed lent them 
money. But Miss P has been unable to provide anything to support her having lent someone 
£1,000.00. Furthermore, this doesnt explain why the funds came from someone else and 
crucially why £750 of the funds Miss P says had been owing for some time, went on to be 
transferred to the very person she says owed her money.
Most importantly of all, Miss P only appears to have retained £250. And, in my view, this isnt 
consistent with the actions of someone who failed to check where the funds arrived from 
because they were relieved to be getting back money that theyd been owed for some time.
Im also concerned that this activity took place on an account that had only recently been 
opened. This account was opened as a business account and it is somewhat odd for Miss P 
to have arranged for personal payments to be made to a newly opened business account in 
this way.
The implausibility of Miss Ps version of events coupled with her inability to provide 
persuasive supporting evidence to corroborate what shes told us, means that I cant 
reasonably conclude she was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think that Starling was 
reasonably entitled to conclude that its more likely than not Miss P was complicit in her 
account receiving fraudulent funds. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Starling did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Miss Ps account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Miss P was complicit in this. As this 
is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Starling to record a fraud prevention marker in 
the circumstances that it did. And Im not upholding Miss Ps complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss P. But even taking into account the 
impact Miss P says the marker is having on her, I cant ignore the fact that the available 
evidence appears to indicate that its more likely than not she was complicit in fraudulent 
activity. So I hope that Miss P will understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at 
least feel her concerns have been listened to. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman