DRN-3372211
Complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Santander closed his account and record a Cifas marker against his 
name.
Background
Mr M had an account with Santander. In November 2020, the account received two 
payments that Santander were concerned about. Santander closed Mr Ms account and 
loaded a Cifas market against his name.
The first payment was for £1,000. This was sent from the account of someone unknown to 
Mr M. Shortly after it was sent, the sender reported to their bank that they were the victim of 
an investment scam perpetrated over social media. 
The day after the funds were received into Mr Ms account, he withdrew them in cash - £300 
at an ATM and £700 over the counter in his local branch. He says he gave this money to a 
friend - who Ill refer to as Mr K. Mr M says that Mr K owed him money and that he believed 
this payment was being sent to him to pay off that debt. He said that part of that debt was a 
result of a purchase his sister had made on Mr Ks behalf. This was for a computer monitor 
and was for just over £400. Mr M provided a screenshot of a page on the Amazon website 
confirming this order was placed back in 2018. He says Mr K contacted him shortly 
afterwards and explained that his financial situation had changed and that he now needed 
the money back. He says he was promised that the debt would be paid off again in the 
future.
The second payment was also for £1,000 and was sent by an individual who Mr M knows, 
but not well. He says that this person deposited the money into his account having obtained 
the details from Mr K. They asked him to withdraw the money in cash and theyd collect it 
from him in person. Mr M says that he hadnt agreed to any such arrangement and didnt 
want to have any further involvement with this person. He knew they were connected with 
Mr K and so he transferred the £1,000 into his account. He added a reference  mum onto 
me.
Santander wasnt persuaded by Mr Ms explanations as to how he received these payments 
and why he moved them on out of his account in the way that he did.  It decided to close 
Mr Ms account and it was satisfied it had strong enough evidence to justify a Cifas loading. 
Mr M thought Santander had treated him unfairly and so he referred a complaint to this 
service. It was allocated to an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator didnt find 
Mr Ms explanation of the source of the funds to be a credible one and, in the light of the 
clear scam report made to the sending bank in connection with the first payment, he didnt 
think Santander had done anything wrong in loading a Cifas marker against Mr Ms name.
Mr M disagreed with the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The bar for applying a Cifas marker is a high one. For Santander to do so it must satisfy 
itself that a fraud or financial crime was committed or attempted. Cifas also requires that 
Santanders evidence of the subjects conduct must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that 
it could confidently report it to law enforcement. It cannot apply such markers based on mere 
suspicion.
I cant know for sure what happened with these two payments. I only have the limited 
evidence that has been collected by the banks involved in the payments and I have Mr Ms 
explanation of events. Where there is such uncertainty, I must reach a decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, whether the available evidence suggest that its more likely 
than not that Mr M is complicit in fraud or a financial crime. Ive considered this carefully and 
Im satisfied that Santander has acted fairly and reasonably in loading a Cifas marker here.
Ive seen the report in connection with the first payment that was made to the sending bank 
and its unambiguous. That individual told their bank that theyd fallen victim to an investment 
scam in which they were told they could make a payment to someone who would carry out 
trades on their behalf. Its not insignificant, therefore, that the reference trade funds was 
recorded when the payment instruction was given.
Im also dont find Mr Ms explanation as to why he thought he was due to receive £1,000 
from Mr K to be a particularly credible one. Mr K apparently called Mr M and explained that 
£1,000 had been paid and explained why it hadnt come from Mr Ks account. The same day 
Mr K called again and explained that his financial circumstances had changed. He needed 
the money back and that it had to be in cash. Im surprised that Mr M wouldnt have found it 
strange that his friends financial circumstances wouldve changed in such a short space of 
time and that he didnt appear to ask for an explanation as to why the repayment had to be 
in cash, rather than a bank transfer.
Mr M has not been able to submit any evidence to show that there was an arrangement with 
Mr K to borrow money. He has submitted a screenshot showing that an expensive monitor 
was ordered through Amazon and delivered to Mr Ms address. I dont find that particularly 
helpful  theres nothing to show the purchase was made for the benefit of Mr K or that hed 
promised to repay it. Its also not clear to me why this purchase wouldve been particularly 
useful or relevant for Mr Ks business  Mr M has told us that this was the primary reason 
why hed lent money to Mr K.
Ive considered the possibility that Mr M received funds into his account without really 
appreciating where theyd come from or what hed agreed to do. But I think the evidence 
suggests thats unlikely, in particular the fact that when he moved on the second payment by 
transferring it to Mr K and he wrote as the reference for that payment mum onto me that 
strongly suggests that Mr M had been complicit in the arrangement, albeit that he was 
having second thoughts about it. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the weight of the evidence supports Santanders decision to load a 
Cifas marker.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman