DRN-3865597
The complaint
Miss R complains that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) charged an excess fee and took a long time to 
repair her car following an accident claim she made, under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2021 Miss R was involved in a car accident. She contacted QIC and it informed 
her there was no record the third-party was insured. QIC accepted the claim and arranged 
for the repairs to be carried out to Miss Rs car. 
In December 2021 QIC emailed Miss R to say it had now found a record on the motor 
insurance database (MID) that the third party had cover in place. It told her it could now 
pursue a non-fault claim and could provide a hire car. It was later discovered that the third 
partys insurance wasnt in force until after the accident happened. 
Miss R wasnt made aware the third party was uninsured until she went to collect her car 
from the garage. This was after the repairs were completed. She says the third party had 
offered to pay for repairs. If shed known the excess wouldnt be recoverable when claiming 
through her policy, she wouldve accepted this offer.
Miss R says it took five months for QIC to arrange for the repairs. It then took a further 
month for this to be completed. She says the situation was very stressful and caused her to 
be admitted to hospital. 
In its final complaint response QIC says it informed Miss R she would be responsible for the 
policy excess. When it ran a further check and found the third party had insurance, QIC says 
it didnt tell Miss R the excess fee would be waived. It says it authorised the required repairs 
in December 2021. Later in December, QIC says the third-party insurer advised there was 
no cover in place until after the accident.
QIC says Miss Rs policy doesnt benefit from the uninsured drivers promise. This means 
shes responsible for paying the policy excess. QIC says the repairs were delayed because 
of unavoidable issues caused by the coronavirus pandemic. It says her car was drivable 
despite the accident damage, and it provided a hire vehicle during the time it was being 
repaired. QIC says Miss R delayed the return of her car by a week as she refused to pay the 
policy excess.
Miss R didnt think it was fair that she had to pay the policy excess and wanted 
compensation for the delays and stress this caused her. She contacted our service and one 
of our investigators looked into the matter. Our investigator upheld Miss Rs complaint. She 
says QIC didnt inform her when it was later discovered the third party was uninsured. This 
deprived her of the opportunity to accept the third partys offer to pay the claim. 
Our investigator says Miss R should be given the option to buy back the claim. This would 
mean QIC refunds the policy excess payment, reinstates any no claims discount, and 
records the claim as notification only on both internal and external databases. She also says 
QIC should pay Miss R £150 compensation. This for the upset it caused by not letting her 
know sooner that the third party was uninsured. 
Miss R accepted our investigators findings. QIC didnt respond. As an agreement wasnt 
reached it has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Miss Rs complaint. Let me explain. 
Ive listened to the call recording that took place after Miss R reported the accident to QIC. 
During the call its agent checks the MID and tells Miss R there is no record to show the third 
party is insured. The agent explains the repairs can be arranged through Miss Rs policy, but 
she is responsible for the policy excess fee. The agent says this fee is payable to the 
garage, on completion of the repairs, in order for the car to be released back to Miss R. 
During the call Miss R confirms her understanding and agrees for the claim to be progressed 
through her policy. Shes told that if she can obtain proof of insurance from the third party, 
QIC can then contact the other insurer to pursue a non-fault claim. 
I think its clear Miss R understood a policy excess fee was payable. I can see that QIC tried 
to call Miss R later in December 2021 to tell her it had now found evidence of insurance. She 
didnt answer, so it sent an email. This says QIC was now able to pursue a non-fault claim 
against the third-partys insurer.   
Further contact took place between QIC and the third-party insurer in December 2021. It was 
subsequently discovered that the third party wasnt covered until the afternoon on the day 
the accident had occurred. The accident took place in the morning. This meant the third-
party wasnt insured for this loss after all. 
Miss R says she wasnt made aware of this until she collected her car from QICs repairer in 
April 2022. 
We asked QIC when it had told Miss R about the third-party not being insured. It says it told 
her in April 2022. However, its clear QIC was aware of this in December 2021. 
Ive thought about Miss Rs comments that the third-party driver offered to pay for the cost of 
the repairs. Miss R says she didnt take up this offer as she was told a non-fault claim was 
being pursued by QIC against the third-party insurer. Her understanding was this meant she 
wouldnt be liable for the policy excess. As it turned out, she did have to pay the excess 
charge, which she could otherwise have avoided. 
There was a delay of around a week before Miss Rs car was returned to her. This is 
because she disputed paying the £200 excess fee to the garage. 
I understand why Miss R is upset that she had to pay an excess fee as the accident wasnt 
thought to be her fault. However, although QIC did email her to say it would be pursuing a 
non-fault claim against the other insurer, it didnt say that no excess fee would be payable. 
The policy schedule confirms that a £200 excess fee is payable in the event of an accidental 
damage claim. This is payable regardless of fault. There is no guarantee that this will be 
refunded in the event of a non-fault claim. I cant see that QIC told Miss R otherwise.  
Having considered this, I think QIC acted according to its policy terms when applying the £200 policy excess. That said Miss R wasnt in an informed position. QIC knew the third 
party wasnt insured toward the end of December 2021. It didnt tell Miss R, which I think it 
reasonably shouldve. Had she known this she couldve withdrawn her claim and accepted 
the third partys offer to pay for the repairs. This wouldve meant she didnt have to pay the 
policy excess and didnt have a claim recorded against her. 
In these circumstances I agree with our investigator that its reasonable to allow Miss R to 
buy back the claim. If she chooses to do this, it means QIC should record the claim as a 
notification only incident and refund the policy excess. It should also reinstate any no claims 
discount Miss R had prior the accident.
Miss R has been caused inconvenience and upset as a result of QICs failure to reasonably 
inform her, in a timely manner, of the third-Partys lack of insurance. Because of this I think 
its fair that it pays her £150 compensation.
Ive thought about Miss Rs dissatisfaction with the time QIC took to arrange and complete 
the repairs. The accident occurred at the end of November 2021. I can see the car was 
taken for repairs in mid-March 2022 and was available for collection around 25 days later. It 
wasnt collected for around a further week as Miss R disputed paying the policy excess. 
In the call recording I listened to, QICs agent explains to Miss R that repairers have been 
impacted by the coronavirus pandemic and also mentions issues caused by the weather. 
She tells Miss R that the repairers are playing catch up as a result of this. 
In its submission to our service QIC says Miss Rs car was drivable after the accident and 
that a car was provided for her whilst the repairs were ongoing in March and April 2022. 
I can understand why Miss R was disappointed that it took several months for repairs to 
begin, and a further month to complete. However, I am aware that the motor industry has 
been impacted as a result of the pandemic. Global supply chain issues have created delays 
in repairs being carried out. QIC explained at the outset that there may be delays because of 
this. From its records it authorised the repairs shortly after Miss R made contact. 
From what Ive seen I dont think Miss R has shown the repairs couldve been completed 
more quickly. I think its likely that she wouldve faced similar issues had she arranged for 
the repairs herself. Because of this I dont think QIC treated her unfairly regarding the 
timeframe for the repairs. 
In summary I dont think QIC treated Miss R fairly when it failed to update her when it knew 
the third-party was uninsured. Because of this it should give her the opportunity to buy back 
the claim. But I do think it acted fairly when arranging for repairs to be carried out.       
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. QIC Europe Ltd should:
allow Miss R to buy back the claim, if she does so it should refund the policy excess, 
amend its internal, and any external records, to show a notification only incident, and 
reinstate any no-claims discount; and 
pay Miss R £150 for the stress and inconvenience it caused her. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman