DRN-1812691
 
The complaint
Mr C complains he received a letter from Arrow Global Limited that contained incorrect and 
misleading information which lead him to suffer distress and anxiety. 
What happened
Mr C took out a loan in January 2009 with a bank which was subsequently sold to Arrow in 
2016. Mr C received a letter dated 17 May 2019 from Arrow. It said it was writing to confirm 
that as of 7 December 2016, C1, a company owned by Arrow, would no longer be managing 
Mr Cs account on Arrows behalf. It went on to say that Arrow works with several agencies 
who manage customer accounts on its behalf and that C2 would be managing Mr Cs 
account from 7 December 2016. 
The letter indicated that Mr C already had a repayment plan in place and instructed him to 
contact C2 to maintain the repayment plan. It said the continuous payment arrangement with 
C1 would be cancelled from 7 December 2016. 
This letter worried Mr C and he brought a complaint to Arrow. He said it caused him to panic 
as he understood he had a payment arrangement with another organisation, R. 
In its final response Arrow accepted there had been an error with the information provided. It 
said the letter should have confirmed that R would no longer be dealing with Mr Cs account 
and that it would be managed by C1. It also apologised that the phone number on the letter 
was incorrect. By way of compensation for the incorrect information it sent Mr C £50. 
Mr C didnt agree that £50 was fair and brought his complaint to this service. He said Arrow 
hadnt addressed the part of his complaint with regards to distress caused. 
Arrow didnt agree to increase the level of compensation. Our investigator felt that Arrow did 
not need to take any further action. She believed £50 was fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances. Mr C remained unhappy and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. He 
felt £100 was more appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr C but having done so I wont be asking 
Arrow to do anything further than it already has. 
Arrow has accepted that it made errors in the correspondence to Mr C. It explained that the 
error lay within its system. It intended to inform Mr C that his account would be managed by 
C1, a change which, as the owner of the loan, it is within its rights to do. Firms are required 
to communicate changes like this to customers and it is this communication that has led to 
the complaint. 
Mr C has said Arrow has not addressed the stress and anxiety he suffered when he received 
this letter. He said he thought he had been paying the wrong company since 2016.
I can understand the letter was worrying, especially as it contained dates in 2016, and the 
change of account handler name clearly didnt make sense as it referred to C1 and C2 but 
not R. The letter is dated 17 May 2019 and Mr C received the final response letter on 25 
June. While I do understand Mr C was immediately worried, Im satisfied that Arrow 
addressed Mr Cs complaint and provided reassurance reasonably quickly.
All things considered Im satisfied the amount offered by Arrow is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Arrow Global Limited should pay £50 compensation, if it hasn't done 
so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman