DRN-4044959
The complaint
Ms R complains Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex) supplied her with a car through a hire agreement 
she believes wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In January 2021, Mrs R entered into a 36 month hire agreement for a new car. She paid an 
initial rental of £2,716 and she was required to pay around £300 per month. 
Around November 2021, she complained to Lex that there was an intermittent rattle coming 
from underneath the passenger seat. She said the car had been returned to the dealership 
on several occasions for inspection and some repairs were carried out under warranty. 
However despite the same, the issue remained. Mrs R said she wanted to reject the car. 
In January 2022, Lex agreed this fault meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied. To put things right, they agreed to end the agreement at no cost to Mrs R 
(rejection). They also paid £250 compensation for the inconvenience and loss of enjoyment 
caused.  
There was further back and forth communication between Mrs R and Lex. She asked 
whether it would be possible to get a replacement car or a price reduction. She also asked, if 
she chose to end the agreement, could collection of the car be extended up to such time she 
could source another one. Lex said these requests werent possible and their offer of 
rejection was fair. 
Unhappy with their response, the complaint was referred to our service. The investigator 
said, as it was clear Mrs R was keen to keep the car, she should be allowed to arrange 
another attempt for the car to be fixed. Lex agreed for this to happen. 
Around August 2022, a further repair was carried out. The seatbelt component was replaced 
under warranty. However despite this, Mrs R reported that the intermittent rattle remained. 
The investigator reached a second opinion. He said, as the several repairs hadnt resolved 
the fault, Lexs initial offer to allow Mrs R to reject the car was a fair one. 
Mrs R disagreed. In summary, she said given the change in market prices and availability of 
cars, she would be in a worse position financially should she proceed to rejection. She said 
she wanted to keep the car but felt a price reduction was a more appropriate resolution. 
In February 2023, I issued a provisional decision outlining my intentions to partially uphold 
the complaint. I said:
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that, under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the 
other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the 
age and mileage. 
In this case, Mrs R was supplied with a new car so it would be reasonable to expect the 
quality of it to be higher than a more well used one and it would be free from defects and for 
a significant amount of time. Based on evidence, its clear there was a fault with the car, that 
isnt in dispute. Whats left for me to decide is whether Lexs proposed resolution of rejection 
is a fair resolution to put things right. 
Lex has agreed the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied meaning there was a 
breach of contract. Where this happens, and its outside the first 30 days of supply, the CRA 
allows the consumer an opportunity to repair and I would expect this to be at no cost to Mrs 
R which is what happened here. Theres been a number of repairs including those carried 
out under warranty but the fault remains.
 
Where the repair fails to remedy the fault, the CRA allows the consumer to ask for a price 
reduction or the final right to reject the car. From my understanding, Mrs R initially wanted to 
reject but due to external factors, she later said she would prefer a price reduction. Our 
service put this to Lex for their consideration but they felt rejection was the fairest option. 
They said they couldnt guarantee the fault wouldnt get worse which may lead to the car 
being unroadworthy, the fault could be linked to underlying safety issue, the fault could incur 
future costs, etc. 
In terms of the price reduction, Lex said this wasnt a resolution they would normally offer. 
They commented it could also cause complications from an administrative perspective in 
terms of refunding a percentage of the payments on a monthly basis. They questioned what 
would happen should the fault get worse and Mrs R later decided to end the agreement 
early. 
Meanwhile, Mrs R has explained that if she was to proceed to rejection, she would be left 
without another car and she doesnt know when she will be able to secure another one. She 
also said since entering the agreement, the market had change and it would cost her more 
money to enter into another hire agreement, even for a like for like car. 
Ive carefully considered the comments provided by both parties. On one hand, I can 
understand why Mrs R is reluctant to end the agreement early and give the car back. 
However I also have to take into account the factors shes mentioned are external ones 
which I cant reasonably hold Lex responsible for.
Lex has agreed to allow rejection and end the agreement at no cost to Mrs R. They said they 
would offer a pro-rata refund of the initial payment made by her. As this is one of the 
remedies available to Mrs R under the CRA I cant say it isnt a fair one.
However as mentioned above, I must bear in mind rejection isnt the only remedy offered 
under the CRA. It also provides the right of a price reduction. I must stress that is a right 
afforded to Mrs R, not Lex. So while I acknowledge Lex may not generally offer this remedy 
and it may cause them administrative issues, that doesnt negate Mrs Rs right to a price 
reduction. 
Taking everything into account, Im not satisfied Lexs proposed resolution goes far enough. 
I find they should allow Mrs R to either reject the car or provide a price reduction in 
resolution of this complaint.
That means, if Mrs R decides to keep the car, Lex must refund 5% of the monthly 
instalments from when the agreement started up to when it ends or Mrs R decides to end it, 
they must also pay 8% simple interest on that amount. Given the nature of the fault and the 
fact its intermittent Im satisfied a 5% price reduction reflects the impaired use of the car. Alternatively, if Mrs R decides to reject the car, Lex should end the agreement with nothing 
further for her to pay and collect the car at no cost to her. Lex must refund 5% of the monthly 
instalments paid from when the agreement started up to when it ends plus pay 8% simple 
interest. Additionally, Lex should refund the initial rental on a pro-rata basis, (so Mrs R isnt 
paying for any period she wont be hiring the car for) plus pay 8% simple interest per year on 
the unused portion from the date it was paid to the date of settlement.
In either scenario, Lex is likely to say whether the car is returned now (rejection) or at the 
end of the agreement (price reduction), they are entitled to charge for any damage that is 
beyond fair wear and tear. Given this is a term of the agreement, I find this would be a 
reasonable course of action by Lex.  
Lastly I dont intend to award any further compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Im 
satisfied what Lex has already paid is reasonable.
Response to the provisional decision
Mrs R accepted the findings. She said her preference would be to end the agreement 
however she outlined the difficulty in getting another car, she says the earliest she may be 
able to get one isnt until Summer 2023. She says she would like flexibility as to when Lex 
would collect the car and end the agreement. If that wasnt possible, she says she may have 
no alternative but to keep the car until the end of the agreement. 
In summary, Lex said:
- The 5% refund should apply from when the fault was first reported and a repair was 
attempted, that is, June 2021, (not from the start of the agreement). Mrs R has made ten 
rental payments since June 2021, they would refund 5% of these payments plus pay 8% 
simple interest per year from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
Thereafter, if Mrs R decides to terminate the agreement:
oThe initial payment would be refunded on a pro-rota basis plus pay 8% interest; 
oMrs R will remain liable for all rental payments up to when the car is collected;
oIn line with the terms, end of contract charges may apply. Such as charges for 
damage that they consider to be beyond fair wear and tear or missing items, etc;
oThe mileage allowance will be calculated on a pro-rata basis, if Mrs R has 
exceeded this amount, a charge will apply in line with the terms.
Or alternatively,
- If Mrs R decides to keep the car:
-
oLex would make a one off payment equivalent of a 5% refund for the remaining 
rental payments (the agreement ends in January 2024). However the 8% simple 
interest wouldnt apply. If Mrs R decides to keep the car beyond the agreement 
end date (whether formally or informally), the 5% price reduction wouldnt apply.  
- This resolution would be in settlement of the complaint. Lex would not consider any 
further complaints about the fault concerning the rattle should it worsen or be a 
contributing factor to any associated circumstances. Its up to Mrs R if she decides to 
keep the car with a known underlying issue. 
-What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Ive considered Lexs comments about the refund of the payments and their belief it should 
start from the first repair (June 2021). However I disagree, Mrs R says she first noticed the 
rattling within weeks of taking possession of the car and I have no reason to doubt this. Im 
satisfied the fault was present and/or developing at the point of supply so I consider it 
reasonable for Lex to refund 5% of the payments made by Mrs R from the inception of the 
agreement to reflect the impaired use. 
In the event Mrs R decides to reject the car and end the agreement, I consider Lexs above 
approach to be fair. Ive taken into account her comments about the difficulty and cost of 
getting another car. While I appreciate that to be the case, I cant hold Lex responsible for 
that. Equally, I cant say they must be flexible and wait months to collect the car and end the 
agreement.
If Mrs R decides to keep the car, I believe Lexs offer of making a one off payment, that is 
the equivalent of 5% of the remaining rentals, to be fair. As these rentals are yet to be paid, I 
agree with Lex that the 8% interest wouldnt apply. I need to make it clear, if Mrs R decides 
to take this option but later decides to end the agreement early (before January 2024), Lex 
may take into account this one off payment when calculating what she owes, (if anything at 
all). If they did so, that would be reasonable. This is because they wouldve paid a one off 
payment on the assumption she would keep the car until the agreement ends in January 
2024.
Lastly, I agree in the event Mrs R accepts this final decision, this will resolve the complaint 
concerning the fault with the rattle. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Ms Rs complaint. 
To put things right, Lex Autolease Ltd must allow Mrs R to choose one of the below options 
in resolution of this complaint:
Option 1  rejection of the car
In the event Mrs R decides she doesnt want to keep the car, Lex Autolease Ltd must allow 
rejection:
-End the agreement;
-Collect the car at no cost to Mrs R; 
-Refund the initial rental on a pro-rata basis plus pay 8% simple interest per year on 
the unused portion from the date it was paid to the date of settlement;
-Refund 5% of all monthly repayments made by Mrs R from inception up to when the 
agreement ends. Plus pay 8% simple interest per year from the date of each 
payment to the date of settlement.
Option 2  price reduction If Mrs R decides to keep the car, Lex Autolease Ltd must apply a price reduction:
-Refund 5% of all monthly repayments made by Mrs R from inception up to when the 
agreement ends. Plus pay 8% simple interest per year from the date of each 
payment to the date of settlement.
-Pay a one off amount to Mrs R which is the equivalent of 5% of the remaining rentals 
up to the end date of the agreement.
If Lex Autolease Ltd considers tax should be deducted from the interest part of my award it 
should provide Mrs R with a certificate showing how much it has taken off, so she can 
reclaim that amount if she is entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman