DRN-1699347
 
Complaint
Ms R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold her a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Ms R was sold a PPI policy in connection with a mortgage in 2008. The PPI would have 
provided a monthly benefit for up 12 months per claim if Ms R was off work sick or lost her 
job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Ms Rs complaint should be upheld. Ms R didnt agree with 
our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Rs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Rs complaint. I understand that Ms R will 
be disappointed by this outcome but I will now explain why I have decided not to uphold this 
complaint.
First of all Ive considered whether Ms R was eligible for PPI. Bearing in mind Ms Rs age, 
residence and employment at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Ms R was eligible.
NatWest had to make it clear to Ms R that the PPI was optional and needed her consent for 
it to be applied to the account. Ms R accepts that the policy was presented as optional and 
that she agreed to take it out. However, she has told us that she only agreed to taking PPI 
because she felt pressured into taking PPI and felt like she couldnt say no.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale so Ive thought about everything Ms R 
and NatWest have told us and looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help me 
decide what is more likely to have happened.
In particular, Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application form. This had a separate section 
for PPI and I note that Ms R was provided with a choice as to whether or not to take PPI. 
She appears to have chosen to take PPI. Ive also seen a copy of the document headed 
 giving your agreement where Ms R ticked to confirm that PPI had been explained to her 
and that she wanted to take it out. Ms R also signed this form. So I think NatWest did 
present the policy as optional and that it was only applied to Ms Rs account because she 
agreed to take it out.Ive next gone on to consider Ms Rs point that she only agreed to take PPI out because she 
was pressured to do so. Ive noted everything Ms R has said about this but this is a very 
subjective area and I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to conclude that the 
representative pressured Ms R into taking PPI as opposed to, for example, explaining the 
possible importance of it in different scenarios - particularly when considering how the policy 
was presented to her in the paperwork. On the document headed giving your agreement 
(referred to above), Ms R ticked a box which said: 
You have explained to me how important it is to have the right protection in place to ensure 
my family and my home are covered should the unexpected happen and I have considered 
how my family or I would repay the mortgage should my income stop. 
Having taken all of this into consideration, I just dont have sufficient evidence to be able to 
conclude that its more likely NatWest did actually pressure Ms R into taking PPI by going 
above and beyond what they should have.
NatWest say that they didnt advise Ms R to take PPI, but Ms R believes she was advised to 
take PPI out. In the context of a mortgage being sold, I can appreciate that its entirely 
possible that although the sale was meant to be non-advised, the representative may well 
have gone on to advise her  especially bearing in mind what I have quoted above from the 
document presented to Ms R. 
The difference between an advised and non-advised sale is that if it was the former, 
NatWest would have had to take steps to ensure the PPI was suitable for Ms R. They 
wouldnt have needed to do this if they hadnt advised Ms R to take PPI. In fairness to Ms R, 
Ive considered whether the policy was suitable for her. Having done so, I think it was. I say 
this because:
 
Its unclear from the PPI questionnaire what sick pay Ms R would have received from 
her employer. In any event, the PPI would have paid out in addition to Ms Rs sick 
pay and likely for a longer period of time. It would also have paid out if she lost her 
job in addition to any redundancy pay she may have been entitled to. I note that Ms 
R had been working less than two years with her employer at the time of the sale so 
she wouldnt have been entitled to statutory redundancy pay. 
 
Ms R has mentioned she had savings - I havent seen any evidence of these savings. 
However, even if Ms R did have savings these wouldnt necessarily have been 
available at the point that she needed them most as they arent guaranteed. In any 
event if Ms R did have some savings available if/when the need arose, she could 
have used these towards essential living expenses while the PPI took care of her 
mortgage repayments. 
 
Ms R doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which may 
have made it difficult for her to make a claim or stopped her from making a claim 
under the policy.
 
I havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable to Ms R.
 
Ms R could have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially. 
Whether or not NatWest advised Ms R to take PPI, they did have to give Ms R clear 
information so that she could make an informed decision about whether or not to take PPI. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Ms R wasnt as clear as it should have been. But 
this in itself doesnt mean that the PPI was mis-sold as I have to consider whether better 
information would have put Ms R off taking the PPI out. And based on the evidence available 
to me, I dont think it would have. I say this for the same reasons I think PPI was suitable for 
her.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman