DRN-3854701
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc unfairly closed her loan and recorded a default 
on her credit file.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mrs G had a loan with Sainsburys Bank. At the end of March 2020 the payment was 
returned unpaid to Mrs Gs bank. In April 2020 Mrs G contacted the bank to explain she was 
experiencing financial difficulties that were linked to the pandemic. Around the time Mrs G 
called, the Financial Conduct Authority issued its Payment Deferral Guidance (PDG). The 
PDG was introduced to provide short term support to customers whore impacted by the 
pandemic. The PDG allowed businesses to grant payment holidays of up to six months to 
customers experiencing financial difficulties as a result of the pandemic. The payment 
holidays wouldve meant no payments were due without impact to Mrs Gs credit file. 
Mrs G has told us she was advised by an agent that she could take a payment holiday. But 
no payment holiday was put in place and Mrs G has told us she called Sainsburys Bank 
back again in May 2021 but wasnt offered any support. Mrs G was able to make the May 
2021 payment around a week late.
In June 2021 Mrs G raised concerns about the payment holiday process. Sainsburys Bank 
approved a three month payment holiday under the PDG. A letter confirming the 
arrangement and end date was sent to Mrs G. Payments were due to begin on 25 
September 2021.
In August 2021 Mrs G complained to Sainsburys Bank after she found missed payments on 
her credit file for March and April 2021. Sainsburys Bank upheld Mrs Gs complaint and 
applied temporary credits to cover the missed payments. Sainsburys Bank also removed the 
arrears information from Mrs Gs credit file. Sainsburys Bank issued its final response to Mrs 
G on 17 September 2020 and the case handler confirmed a manual payment was due 
around a week later and that the direct debit had been reinstated to collect a payment in 
October 2020. Sainsburys Bank also paid Mrs G £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Mrs G didnt make the September 2020 payment. But Mrs G made payments by direct debit 
in the months that followed. The loan remained one month in arrears as a result of the 
September 2020 payment being missed. Sainsburys Bank sent Mrs G arrears statements 
and says it sent a default notice. The loan was ultimately closed and sold to a third party in 
2021. A default was recorded on Mrs Gs credit file. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Gs complaint and said they thought Sainsburys 
Bank had dealt with it fairly. Mrs G asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the timeline above as all parties broadly agree about 
the course of events. I focused on what I think were the key events. Ive reached a different 
view to the investigator and intend to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see Mrs G did experience some financial difficulties that led to missed payments in 
March and April 2020. But those missed payments were connected to the pandemic and the 
PDG was introduced to support customers in this situation. And looking at Mrs Gs dealings 
with Sainsburys Bank, I agree they were somewhat confusing. I note that when Mrs G 
spoke with Sainsburys Bank in April and May 2020 the PDG had been introduced. Id have 
expected Mrs G to have been offered support under that guidance. Or to see some evidence 
Sainsburys Bank at least considered whether the support was right for Mrs G. I havent seen 
anything of that nature. In addition, Mrs G has told us she was encouraged to make the May 
2021 payment which was difficult. That payment was made around a week after the due 
date.
When Mrs G complained about the missed payments showing on her credit file, Sainsburys 
Bank accepted it hadnt provided the right level of support. It placed a temporary credit to 
cover March and April 2020 on Mrs Gs account. And Sainsburys Bank went on to approve 
a three month payment break covering June, July and August 2020s payments. That meant 
Mrs G received five months of payment holidays under the PDG out of a maximum of six 
available.
I note Sainsburys Banks comments that its final response specifically told Mrs G a manual 
payment was due on 25 September 2020. But I think the case handler ought to have looked 
at Mrs Gs circumstances and the support provided up to that point. It shouldve been 
apparent that Mrs G couldve taken a final one month payment holiday under the PDG, 
taking her to the maximum of six months. But that option wasnt considered or offered. Had 
Sainsburys Bank made that offer to Mrs G, she couldve started her contractual monthly 
payments again by direct debit in October 2020, instead of falling into arrears.
Mrs G has told us she remained confused about the payments that were due and thought 
the direct debit payments made from October 2020 were correct. I appreciate that 
Sainsburys Bank sent statements and letters confirming a payment would be due on 25 
September 2020. But I also found the information provided to Mrs G to be confusing and 
unclear at times. Given the history of Mrs Gs case, I accept her claim she thought payments 
were being made as agreed.
I also think its reasonable to note that whilst Mrs G was behind with her payments, she was 
only ever one payment in arrears from September 2020 onwards. I accept the regulations do 
allow businesses to default when the arrears have gone on for some time. But Im surprised 
that no other attempts to call Mrs G were made in place of moving to terminate the account.
Overall, Im not persuaded Sainsburys Bank has treated Mrs G unfairly. So I intend to 
uphold Mrs Gs complaint. 
The issues raised have been ongoing for some time now and impacted Mrs Gs credit file. I 
can also see Mrs G has been caused a reasonable level of distress and inconvenience. 
Sainsburys Bank paid Mrs G £150 when it responded to her complaint. But I intend to 
increase the award by a further £300. In my view, that more fairly reflects the impact of the 
issues raised on Mrs G.I need to decide how to fairly resolve Mrs Gs complaint. In my view, the fairest approach 
would be for Sainsburys Bank to take steps to retrieve the loan from its new owner and 
reinstate it, in line with the loan agreement. Sainsburys Bank will need to contact Mrs G to 
discuss the payments that need to be made up due to the payment holidays. Sainsburys 
Bank will also need to amend Mrs Gs credit file to remove the adverse information recorded 
from April 2020 onwards.
I invited both parties to respond with new information they wanted me to consider before I 
made my final decision. Mrs G confirmed she was willing to accept the provisional decision. 
In summary, Sainsburys Bank responded and said it remained of the view it had 
communicated clearly with Mrs G and that there was no requirement on it to look back at the 
support provided or give further support under the PDG. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered everything Sainsburys Bank has said in response. I note the points 
made but none of the information provided is new. I havent been persuaded to change the 
conclusions I reached. I still think Sainsburys Bank shouldve offered a better level of 
support to Mrs G at a difficult time and that her loan was unfairly terminated. 
As I havent been persuaded to change my view of how to fairly resolve Mrs Gs complaint 
Im going to proceed in line with my final decision. I still think Mrs Gs complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons.    
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Gs complaint and direct Sainsburys Bank Plc to settle as 
follows: 
- Retrieve the loan account from new owner
- Remove all arrears and adverse information from Mrs Gs credit file from April 2020 
onwards (including default)
- Reinstate loan account and apply the final month of the payment holiday allowance 
(as allowed under the PDG) to September 2020
- Arrange for direct debit payments to be collected
- Either extend term of loan or reach some other arrangement with Mrs G to ensure 
sums due during the payment holidays (including the £633 temporary credit) are 
incorporated and repaid
- Pay Mrs G a further £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Marco ManenteOmbudsman