DRN-1757017
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about an employment claim he made on his DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited legal expenses policy, which DAS declined. 
What happened
Mr P made a claim on his DAS legal expenses insurance policy for cover to pursue a claim 
against his employer. 
Hed already made a claim with a previous legal expenses insurer by that point who took the 
view that the event which gave rise to the claim happened outside the period they were on 
cover for. So they turned the claim down. Another ombudsman looked at Mr Ps complaint 
about that particular issue and determined that the insurer was right to turn down cover 
because the event that gave rise to the claim happened in November 2016 and Mr Ps policy 
with the previous insurer only ran up to October 2016.
Mr Ps policy with DAS ran from October 2018 to October 2019.  DAS also declined Mr Ps 
claim. They said the events that gave rise to the claim took place before their policy start 
date. Mr P disagreed. He said his claim is for something that took place within DAS period 
of cover- namely that he resigned as a consequence of a grievance he wasnt allowed to 
pursue. DAS agreed to accept the claim but after reviewing the ET1 filed at Tribunal they 
then withdrew cover because the events set out within it occurred prior to October 2018.
Mr P didnt agree so our investigator considered things. He also thought the event which led 
to the claim fell before the period of DAS being on cover. And he acknowledged that DAS 
had awarded compensation at different times for service failures which he thought were fair.
Because Mr P doesnt agree the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld for the same reasons set 
out by our investigator.
Its a requirement of many legal expenses policies that any intended claim arises out of an 
event which occurs during the period of insurance. Mr Ps policy is no exception. It says:
d We will pay an appointed representativeas long as: - The date of occurrence of the
insured incident is during the insurance period.
The date of occurrence is defined as: the date of the event that leads to a claim. If there is
more than one event arising at different times from the same originating cause, the date of
occurrence is the date of the first of these events.
As a general rule, you take out insurance cover for something which may or may not happen 
in the future. So, in my judgment, it isnt unfair in principle for a legal expenses insurer to 
exclude claims for things which started to happen before cover began. There are special 
policies available which are designed to cover such disputes, but this isnt one of them.
Mr Ps policy with DAS started in October 2018 and though Mr P says the event which gave 
rise to his claim happened during the period of insurance, I dont agree. Having considered 
all the documents hes submitted, and in particular the ET1, Im satisfied that the problems 
he experienced with his former employer have been ongoing for some significant time- and 
certainly before the insurance was in place. DAS have said that the date of occurrence was 
when Mr P made his flexible working request in September 2016. But as Mr P says, it was 
when he became aware that his request was unsuccessful that he became unhappy. And 
taking into account whats noted in the ET1, I think this was the first in a series of events that 
led to his eventual resignation. Because the flexible working request was declined in 
November 2016- at least two years before cover was in place- I cant say that DAS are 
responsible for this claim.
My findings accord with those reached by another ombudsman on the earlier claim Mr P 
made with another insurer which was subsequently declined by that insurer. As a 
consequence I asked Mr P whether he had any legal expenses insurance cover in place 
from November 2016. From what hes said, it doesnt appear that he did. Whilst thats 
unfortunate, I dont think I can say DAS are responsible for this claim.
Mr P hasnt complained about the awards of compensation DAS have made to date for 
some of the failings they identified in the service they provided. I dont think those awards 
are unreasonable and am therefore not awarding anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman