DRN-3886384
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc reduced his overdraft limit.
What happened
Mr A holds a current account with HSBC that has an overdraft facility.
 
In November 2021, HSBC reduced Mr As overdraft limit by £500. Mr A didnt think that was 
fair, so he complained. He said that his overdraft limit had been changed without notice and 
hed like it restored to its previous level.
 
HSBC sent its final response letter to Mr A on 13 April 2022. In it, the bank said it had a duty 
 as a responsible lender  to regularly review credit arrangements. It confirmed that its 
decision stood, and it wasnt able to reinstate Mr As overdraft to its prior level.
 
Mr A remained unhappy, and he asked HSBC to reopen his complaint. The bank said it 
would review things and, on 19 May, one of HSBCs agents called Mr A to discuss the 
matter. She confirmed that the banks decision wouldnt change.
 
In September, Mr A approached our service for an independent review. He was still unhappy 
with HSBCs decision and, further, he was unhappy with how it had dealt with his complaint. 
An investigator here looked at what had happened, but he didnt think HSBC had done 
anything wrong. He said that, in taking the decision to reduce Mr As overdraft limit, the bank 
had acted in-line with the terms and conditions of his account. Hed also seen that HSBC 
had written to Mr A informing him of its decision. So, overall, he felt HSBC had taken a 
reasonable decision  that it was entitled to take  and had let Mr A know about it.
 
Mr A disagreed. He said that there had been no communication, and HSBC shouldve done 
more to speak with him about its decision. Further, Mr A felt HSBC hadnt shown him any 
care when dealing with his complaint. Hed only been telephoned once to be taken through 
things and felt that he shouldve been called to discuss the matter at all stages.
 
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the revised overdraft limit 
that HSBC agreed for Mr A was fair and reasonable. Rather, what Im considering here is 
whether the bank could review and decide to reduce Mr As limit. And, if so, whether it did 
that correctly. 
Ill also say at the outset that, ultimately, what services a bank offers  including how much 
money it is willing to lend - is a commercial decision. Much the same as it is up to Mr A to 
decide whether to accept what HSBC offers him, or to take his business elsewhere.
The terms and conditions of Mr As account make clear that theres no fixed period for an 
arranged overdraft. They also say that such arrangements are regularly reviewed. 
Additionally, the terms say that HSBC will provide at least 30 days notice for any changes to 
Mr As overdraft which arent to his advantage.
 
So, on that basis, Im satisfied that HSBC could review Mr As overdraft limit, but it should 
give him the requisite notice before implementing any changes.
HSBC has provided copies of letters that its sent to Mr A; Ive seen that it wrote to him on 
6 October 2021 to explain that his overdraft limit would be reduced, and that the new limit 
would come into effect from 9 November. With that in mind, Im satisfied HSBC has complied 
with the terms of its agreement with Mr A.
 
Put simply, it decided to review Mr As arranged overdraft  something its entitled to do  
and implement a change. It then wrote to tell Mr A about that change, providing 30 days 
notice.
 
While I can understand Mr As disappointment in the banks decision, that doesnt render it 
unfair or unreasonable. And with everything that Ive set out, I cant fairly conclude that 
HSBC acted inappropriately here in abiding by the terms of the account and exercising its 
commercial judgement.
 
Mr A says he didnt receive any communication from HSBC about its decision. But the letter 
from 6 October 2021 is correctly addressed. And while its possible that letters sometimes 
arent delivered correctly  I think its reasonable to say that, more often than not, they are. I 
havent been given any specific reason why Mr As letter might not have arrived. So, overall, 
I think its more likely the letter was delivered correctly.
Im aware too that Mr A has said hes unhappy about how his complaint was handled. Strictly 
speaking, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and doesnt fall within our jurisdiction. 
But here I think we can consider this aspect, thats because its ancillary to the regulated 
activity which Mr A has complained about. 
Ive looked at how HSBC dealt with Mr As complaint and, on balance, I dont think it did 
anything wrong. I know Mr A thinks HSBC shouldve called him, particularly when it first 
responded to his complaint in April 2022. But theres no obligation on the bank to do so 
before issuing its final response letter. I am pleased to see, though, that HSBC did call Mr A 
 before it wrote to him  when it provided a further response in May 2022.
 
To sum up then, in the circumstances, I dont think HSBC has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
here. Its entitled to review its agreement with Mr A, and I find that it made legitimate 
commercial decision and that it acted in-line with the terms and conditions of Mr As account. 
Moreover, I dont think HSBC did something wrong in how it handled Mr As complaint. So, 
while I know this isnt the outcome Mr A is hoping for, I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman