DRN-2150841
The complaint
Mr M complains about the settlement amount offered by American International Group UK 
Limited (AIG) in respect of his claim. He says AIG has treated him unfairly and has caused 
delays. 
What happened
Mr M suffered an accident at work which resulted in an injury to one of his upper limbs. Mr M 
said he was unable to continue working due to the accident. And his employment was 
terminated. 
Mr M received treatment including injections and surgery. However he said the treatment 
was largely ineffective. He later made a claim against his personal accident policy with AIG. 
AIG agreed to settle Mr Ms claim, but he was unhappy with the amount offered. Mr M said 
he was unable to work again due to the injury he sustained, and said he thought AIG should 
pay him in line with the any work benefit section of his policy. The policy defines this as 
follows. 
any work benefit means the benefit which will be paid if bodily injury disables you to 
such an extent that you are permanently prevented from doing any paid work 
whatsoever for the remainder of your life
AIG referred Mr M to an Independent Medical Examiner (IME), Dr A. The medical report 
issued in April 2018 said Mr M had lost 80% of the use of one shoulder. 
AIG later undertook photographic surveillance of Mr M and presented the evidence to Dr A 
for further review. Dr A reviewed his findings and amended his original report in August 
2018, to say he thought Mr M had lost 50%  60% of the use of one shoulder. And AIG 
made a settlement offer to Mr M.
In June 2019 Mr M complained to AIG about the settlement hed been offered, the way his 
claim had been handled and the length of time AIG had taken to deal with it. 
AIG said itd made an offer to settle Mr Ms claim based on the higher figure of 60% loss of 
the use of one shoulder stated in Dr As report. And had calculated the settlement in line with 
60% of this loss being attributable to the accident, as Dr As report said he thought 40% - 
50% of Mr Ms loss of use of his shoulder was related to a psychological component. 
AIG said Mr M didnt meet the any work benefit term of his policy, as this would only apply 
if Mr M was permanently unable to do any form of paid work for the rest of his life. It said 
Dr As report had confirmed Mr M was likely to be unable to perform any manual jobs using 
his injured limb, but said he would be able to carry out a desk based job. 
Unhappy with AIGs response, Mr M brought his complaint to this service. 
Mr M later obtained a report from a psychiatrist, at his own cost, and presented this to AIG to 
support his claim. The report by the psychiatrist Dr O ultimately said: I did not find Mr M to 
exhibit any symptoms of mental illness, including in relation to his past shoulder injury.. 
AIG accepted the findings contained in Dr Os report and as a result, made an increased 
settlement offer to Mr M. AIG said it also changed its settlement offer from 60% loss of 
shoulder to 60% loss of arm, which further increased the amount of the settlement under the 
terms of Mr Ms policy. AIG paid the settlement amount to Mr M in October 2019. 
When bringing his complaint to this service, Mr M said AIG hadnt told him that Dr A had 
originally assessed his level of disability in his shoulder to be 80% and that this was then 
later reduced to 50% - 60%. Mr M raised concerns about the credibility of the reports, as he 
said they showed differing percentages, but both reports had been issued on the same date. 
Mr M also said he disagreed with the view that he would be able to carry out a desk-based 
job. He said his injury was to his dominant arm. And said he had never worked in an office 
before, so had no experience of the types of jobs AIG said he could now do. 
Mr M said he didnt think AIG had dealt with his claim honestly. And said he thought his 
claim should be settled in line with full any work benefit section of his policy.
The response to my provisional decision
AIG responded to the provisional decision and said it had no comments to make. 
Mr M responded. He said hes concerned that Ive not received all of the relevant evidence 
and has provided further copies. He also referenced a letter written by his consultant in 
2016. In this letter Dr C said he thought it would be possible for Mr M to undertake light duty 
office work but only if he had previous office experience. 
In summary Mr M has also raised the following points: 
he doesnt accept that Dr A amended his report to a 50%  60% loss of the use of his 
shoulder; 
had Dr A amended the report, he would have amended his commentary in addition to 
the percentage and hes queried the date the report was amended;
AIG didnt explain the reason Dr As first report was amended when Mr M asked; 
AIG didnt inform Mr M that there was an earlier report until it issued its final response 
letter; and 
he still disagrees that he could work and says it would be impossible for him to find 
an office based job where he can use his left arm only, due to his age and lack of 
previous experience.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also considered again my provisional 
findings in light of the responses to it.
Ive reviewed the letter Mr M has provided which was issued by his consultant in 2016. 
However two years after this, AIG arranged for Mr M to be referred to an IME  Dr A. And Ive previously explained why I thought it was reasonable for AIG to do this, and to rely on 
that report. 
The covering letter Dr A provided with his second report stated that hed amended the report 
after reviewing surveillance evidence gathered by AIG. And the letter is signed by Dr A and 
dated 30 August 2018.
AIG addressed the reason for Dr As second report in its final response letter to Mr Ms 
complaint. It said Dr A had amended his opinion after reviewing further evidence. 
AIGs letter said Dr A amended his report in September 2018 and Mr M has queried the 
date. Dr As cover letter was dated 30 August 2018, so I think its most likely that AIG 
received the letter and second report in September 2018, which would explain its reference. 
But this doesnt give me any cause to question the authenticity of the second report. 
For the reasons Ive explained above, I remain satisfied that Dr As second report was 
issued by him in August 2018, and that he amended the percentage loss of use of Mr Ms 
shoulder following a review of the surveillance evidence provided to him by AIG. 
I explained in my provisional decision that I didnt think AIG was required to atomically send 
Mr M a copy of Dr As report. And Mr M has not provided any evidence that he had asked for 
this and was refused. So Im still of the opinion that AIG hasnt done anything wrong in that 
regard. 
I sympathise with Mr Ms point about the difficulties he might face in finding a suitable job. 
However, the any work benefit term of his policy specifies the insured must be permanently 
prevented from doing any paid work whatsoever. And Ive still not been persuaded by the 
evidence Ive seen, that Mr M met that criteria. 
The points Mr M raised havent changed my mind, so I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised above.
My final decision
Im aware that American International Group UK Limited made an offer to pay Mr M a total of 
£90,000 in settlement of his claim, and has already made this payment to him. I conclude 
that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that American International Group UK Limited doesnt need to do anything 
further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman