DRN-3797313
The complaint
Miss B complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mishandled a claim she 
made about two fraudulent transactions totalling £765.71.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Miss B is unhappy with the way Nationwide handled her claim 
when she reported two transactions in April 2021 made as a result of a scam.
Nationwide initially recovered and refunded £5.71 and then refunded the remaining funds on 
6 May 2022. It then paid a further £51.56 in compensatory interest on 9 May 2022, from 
which it had already deducted 20% tax.
Amongst other things, Miss B was unhappy with the time it took Nationwide to refund her 
money. She also raised concerns around other aspects of its handling of her claim, such as 
failing to call her back, providing incorrect information, and failing to give details about how 
she could claim her tax back from HMRC, as well as providing her with call recordings.
Nationwide apologised for the poor service Miss B had received and offered a total of £350 
compensation covering various aspects of its service failings, but Miss B didnt think this was 
enough.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. While she acknowledged that Nationwide could 
have handled things better, she didnt think it warranted a further award of compensation on 
top of the £350 it had already paid. Miss B disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to 
me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Id like to assure Miss B that Ive taken everything shes said into account. And I 
appreciate that the experience shes had with Nationwide would have been frustrating for 
her, and I accept it could have handled things better. I can see, for example, that 
Nationwide didnt call her back with an update following a call she made in March 2022, 
and that she has also feels she was given incorrect or incomplete information by the 
bank.
However, Nationwide has already awarded a total of £350 compensation in recognition 
of its poor handling of various aspects of her fraud claim and subsequent complaint. And 
having considered the overall service provided by Nationwide, and the level of impact 
this has had on Miss B in terms of distress and inconvenience, Im not persuaded it 
needs to pay further compensation.
I understand Miss B was frustrated not to receive information about how she could claim 
the tax paid on her compensatory interest back from HMRC. However, this isnt 
something we would normally expect a business to provide as standard when it makes 
an award of compensatory interest. Miss B could have also contacted HMRC herself to 
ask for this information, rather than waiting for Nationwide to provide it. And if she feels 
that Nationwide hasnt provided all the call recordings she has asked for, then she 
should specify which calls she thinks are missing so it can attempt to locate and provide 
them.
Overall, Im satisfied Nationwide has already done enough to put things right for the 
things Miss B is unhappy about, so I wont be asking it to take any further action. I 
understand Miss B also has also raised a further complaint to Nationwide regarding 
matters such as her card reader and statements, which it has addressed in a separate 
final response issued in July 2022. But as the investigator has said, this will need to form 
the subject of a separate complaint and is not something I can comment on within this 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman