DRN-1444706
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) is sending him paper statements, in 
respect of his account, more frequently than he asked it to  this request being for paper 
statements to be sent annually. 
What happened
Halifax explained to our service that notwithstanding its systems are set to send Mr L 
statements annually, they are also set (which cant be overridden) to send statements 
quarterly if there has been debit card and/or cash withdrawal activity on the account.
And its for these reasons why Mr L has received paper statements dated March, June, 
September and December 2019.
Mr Ls complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that Halifax, 
having already paid him £62 and having explained that he could register for online banking 
as a means  everything else being equal  of supressing paper statements being sent, 
need do nothing more.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators view and so his complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. However, having done so, I can confirm 
that Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for the same reasons.
Even if I was to disagree with Halifaxs submission that its unable to stop statements being 
sent to Mr L quarterly where there has been debit card and/or cash withdrawal activity on his 
account, this in my view is a commercial decision its entitled to make and one that it would 
be neither fair, nor reasonable, for our service to interfere with. So I dont think it would be 
appropriate for me to direct Halifax to stop sending Mr L quarterly statements, or to pay him 
anything further than the £62 it has already done.
I accept Mr Ls point that he wants to keep his account balance, and the activity on his 
account, confidential. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to hold Halifax 
liable for other people, residing at Mr Ls address, opening post addressed to him and not 
them.
 
Furthermore I can see that Halifax has offered Mr L the option of registering for online 
banking which  everything else being equal  would supress paper statements being sent 
to him. And although I can understand Mr Ls reluctance to register for online banking, I cant 
see what more Halifax can reasonably suggest he does. Finally, and although I accept that Mr L has had a banking relationship with Halifax for a 
number of years, moving his account to a bank that might be able to provide him with the 
level of service he is looking for is also an option open to him.
In summary Im satisfied that Halifax need not pay Mr L anything further by way of 
compensation, or that it need give an undertaking to send paper statements only annually.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision represents the last stage of this services dispute resolution procedure. 
Mr L doesnt have to accept my decision, and if he doesnt do so, he will be free to pursue 
legal action against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Peter Cook
Ombudsman