DRN-3978467
The complaint
Mr H complained, on his own behalf as a client and also in his capacity as the appointed 
executor of the estate of Mrs H, about poor service provided in connection with the transfer 
of his late wifes ISA by HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (HSBC). He doesnt feel 
that the amount of £200 compensation paid to him by HSBC is adequate to reflect the full 
extent of the impact on him of ongoing issues between himself and HSBC. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H both held investments with HSBC, jointly and in their individual capacities. 
Mrs H died in July 2021 and Mr H is her appointed sole executor. 
This complaint concerns what happened when Mr H wanted to arrange the transfer to 
himself of an ISA which formed part of his late wifes estate, alongside claiming the 
Additional Permitted Subscription (APS  an additional ISA allowance surviving spouses can 
claim) to which Mr H was entitled on his wifes death.
 
Mr H made repeated calls to HSBC and spent a lot of time on the phone in an effort to get a 
clear understanding of what needed to happen to give effect to his wishes and chasing up 
the necessary paperwork. His frustration at the lack of progress and conflicting information 
hed been told by HSBC prompted Mr H to complain to HSBC. By then, he was anxious that 
whilst the transfer was still outstanding, the increase in the value of the shares in his late 
wife's ISA could result in him facing adverse tax consequences.
By early December 2021, Mr H was so disillusioned with the delays and poor service issues 
he had encountered in his dealings with HSBC that he told the bank he wished to transfer 
his portfolios elsewhere and asked HSBC not to levy any exit or other transfer fees or 
penalty for leaving. 
HSBC upheld his complaint. It apologised for the delays and conflicting information it had 
given, provided further details clarifying the APS and said it would re-send the relevant 
information. HSBC acknowledged that the service Mr H had received fell below standard and 
for this, it credited £200 to his account. HSBC told Mr H that whilst it had noted his strength 
of feeling about what happened, it wouldnt waive any transfer fees and it directed him to its 
terms and conditions which indicated customers would pay £15 per line of stock when 
transferring away from HSBC.
Mr H didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things and so he brought his complaint to us 
and one of our investigators looked into what happened.   
Our investigator acknowledged HSBC had been responsible for admitted errors and delays. 
But he said ultimately this had led to Mr H benefitting from the increase in the value of 
Mrs Hs shares since Mr H was entitled to receive the APS benefit that reflected whichever 
was the greater valuation  at date of death or on date of closure. Our investigator also 
pointed to the fact that HSBC had changed its mind and agreed to waive transfer charges. 
He said that whilst we had no authority to tell HSBC to pay him redress for the impact its 
poor service had on Mr H in his role as executor, he was pleased to see that HSBC had 
acknowledged its shortcomings by paying him £200. Our investigator concluded that 
although the service HSBC provided could have been much better, he was satisfied no 
financial losses occurred which needed to be addressed. All in all, his view was that HSBC 
had resolved the complaint fairly.
Mr H disagreed with our investigator. He mainly said that his problems with HSBC had 
continued since hed brought the complaint  it had admitted making further mistakes when 
closing and transferring the ISA and hed had to make a new complaint about misapplied 
dividend payments on another account held at HSBC. Mr H put things this way: This is why 
I believe the £200 award (HSBC) made in acknowledgement of their errors up to November 
2021 is wholly disproportionate as a total remedy given time HSBC have taken to sort 
affairs, the lack of mitigations and HSBCs continuing mistakes.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Having thought carefully about everything I've seen and been told, Ive independently 
reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator that the £200 paid already is fair 
redress. Ill explain why I say this.
Ive concentrated just on Mr Hs initial complaint. Although I can understand why Mr H 
wants me to widen the scope of my review to include his ongoing concerns about his 
dealings with HSBC, this is not within the remit this complaint. If Mr H has further cause for 
complaint that goes beyond the scope of the complaint he brought to us in December 2021, 
then he needs to first tell HSBC what his concerns are, so it has an opportunity to respond. 
If he still feels unhappy after that, he may be able to bring a new complaint to this service. 
We cant award redress for any complaint where the financial business hasnt first been 
given a chance to put things right.  As far as I can see, the background facts are not in dispute and as HSBC has upheld 
Mr Hs complaint I will concentrate on the question of fair redress. 
It seems clear that Mr H has suffered significant inconvenience during the course of his 
dealings with HSBC. I sympathise with Mr H. I can completely understand that whats 
happened has been upsetting and frustrating for him at what is likely to have been a difficult 
time. 
Theres information on our website which explains the Financial Ombudsman Service 
approach. Briefly, I need to decide what I think is likely to have happened if HSBC hadnt 
made any errors  in other words, if it had not been responsible for delays and poor service 
in the course of actioning Mrs Hs ISA transfer and arranging for Mr H to claim the APS 
benefit. 
Under the rules governing our service, Mr H (as the executor of Mrs Hs estate) isnt entitled 
to any compensation for the inconvenience he experienced in the course of carrying out his 
duties as executor. We can only tell a business to pay compensation for trouble and upset 
experienced by its customer, not by a third party. Here, Mr H was acting in a dual capacity 
not only as the appointed representative of his late wifes estate (for example, when he gave 
instructions about the transfer of her ISA) but also in his personal capacity (for instance, in 
connection with the APS benefit he wanted to claim). So I've approached this complaint on 
the basis that I can look at whether HSBC has paid fair redress to Mr H to reflect the trouble 
and upset he experienced when dealing with HSBC in his personal capacity as a client as 
well as considering if theres been any loss to the estate.
Thinking about everything, I find the £200 compensation paid already, alongside the waiver 
of transfer fees as Mr H requested, broadly reflects the level of award I would make in these 
circumstances. Whilst Mr H had all the stress of sorting things out on a day to day basis, he 
benefitted substantially from the increase in share value over the time it took for HSBC to 
complete the transfer. So I cant see that he suffered any financial detriment. And having 
listened to the call recordings and reviewed all of the other information provided to me by the 
parties, in my view, £200 redress fairly reflects the impact of HSBCs poor service on Mr H  
at least so far as this complaint goes. 
I havent been provided with any information that suggests the estate suffered any financial 
loss.
So, this leads me to conclude that no further redress is appropriate.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr H disagrees with the outcome I've reached in my provisional decision. 
HSBC said it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I appreciate that Mr H feels strongly about what happened and he holds a different view to 
me. I would like to assure Mr H that Ive taken carefully into account all the information I've 
been able to see and everything thats been said, including his comments in response to my 
provisional decision. But what Mr H has told me isnt enough on its own for me to be able to 
uphold the complaint. 
And as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in more detail in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
As HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct has already done everything I would expect it to 
do to put things right for Mr H, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman