DRN-3501907
The complaint
Mr C has complained that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly lent to him. He says he was provided 
with credit that he couldnt afford and he lost out as a result. 
What happened
Mr C opened a credit card account with NewDay in March 2019. His credit limit was initially 
£250. In January 2020 his credit limit was increased to £1000. Over the following 17 months 
NewDay provided Mr C with four more credit cards and several credit limit increases on four 
out of the five cards he now held. By June 2021 it seems he had an overall credit limit of 
£8,750 combined across all five cards. The cards were branded as Marbles, Pulse, Amazon, 
Aqua and AO.
Mr C says that NewDay shouldnt have allowed him to open an account and it shouldnt have 
increased his credit limit once it had. Mr C says he was struggling to meet his repayments 
and had a lot of credit elsewhere, too. He says if NewDay had done adequate checks on his 
situation it would have seen that he wouldnt be able to repay his balance in a reasonable 
length of time.
 
NewDay says it didnt lend irresponsibly to Mr C and that it did all the necessary checks 
before it lent to Mr C  and when it increased his credit limit. 
Our investigator thought that Mr Cs complaint should be partially upheld. They thought that 
the initial lending decision was reasonable, but that at the point of the first credit limit 
increase on the first card (and before the other credit cards were given to Mr C) that NewDay 
should have looked more carefully at whether Mr C could afford to borrow more.
 
Our investigator said that NewDay should remove any interest and charges applied after 9 
January 2020 and that it should write off the remaining balances on all of his accounts. If this 
resulted in a credit balance our investigator said this should be repaid to Mr C along with 
compensatory interest.
 
NewDay disagreed. It said it had done sufficient checks and there were no indications of any 
financial strain. 
 
As NewDay disagreed the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Cs complaint.
NewDay needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts, the amount of time Mr C had been indebted and Mr Cs income and 
expenditure. 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate.
When Mr C opened his account NewDay conducted a credit check. NewDay told us there 
were no signs of financial difficulties based on the checks it did. Having reviewed the results 
of the checks, I dont think there is anything to suggest that it would have been unreasonable 
for NewDay to have approved the account. They showed that Mr C owed about £1,500 
elsewhere and that he didnt have any payday loans or county court judgements. It did show 
that he had two defaulted accounts for a value of about £1,000 from about three years 
before the application. It did show that he was relatively highly indebted elsewhere but that 
he was managing his finances appropriately  there were no recent defaults or arrears and 
he wasnt in any payment or debt arrangements. 
I think this suggests that the decision to lend the initial £250 was reasonable. There were no 
obvious signs of financial distress and he had relatively low levels of debt. So, I dont think 
NewDay did anything wrong with its original lending decision.
However, I think that when NewDay made the decision to increase Mr Cs credit limit at his 
request to £1,000 in January 2020  a four-fold increase in his credit limit  NewDay should 
have been more assiduous in its checks. While its standard checks didnt seemingly cause 
significant concern in isolation, I think the knowledge NewDay had about the way Mr C was 
managing his credit with NewDay and elsewhere should have been a reason it didnt solely 
rely on those. I say this because Mr C had been using a high proportion of his credit limit for 
a considerable period of time. He had been using the credit card for cash advances, which 
incurs fees and may indicate that Mr C had difficulty accessing funds from less expensive 
sources. Mr Cs debt elsewhere had increased substantially  doubling in the nine months 
he had held the credit card to over £3,000. It also knew that Mr C described himself as a 
homemaker on his original application which indicated that he was unlikely to have a salary 
which could support such an increase in credit use.
I think these indicators should have caused NewDay to look at Mr Cs request more closely. I 
think it ought to have asked Mr C more about his financial circumstances including his 
income sources and his outgoings and it should have verified the information it already had 
about Mr C. I think the checks that it did complete were not reasonable or proportionate.
 
In the absence of such information from NewDay I have looked at the information Mr C has 
provided about his finances. These include his bank statements and his credit file from 
November 2021 which covers several years before then. From these I can see that Mr Cs 
only income is from Universal Credit and Carers Allowance. His regular income was under 
£500 a month. And the bank statements show that Mr C was gambling a lot. For example, in 
October 2019 Mr C spent around £1,250 on betting. The transactions are the most frequent 
activity on his account along with payments to other revolving credit accounts.
 The pattern and volume of gambling transactions strongly suggests to me that Mr C was 
gambling compulsively. I think he was using his credit card to help pay off other debts and to 
support his betting. I think that increasing Mr Cs credit limit in these circumstances was 
irresponsible as the lending was unaffordable for Mr C.
Ive looked at Mr Cs circumstances over the following 18 months, too. I agree with our 
investigator that they do not change significantly. This means that the additional credit 
offered, both by a further credit limit increase on his first credit card account and the 
subsequent provision of further credit cards and credit limit increases on those, were 
similarly unaffordable. It follows that I consider none of this additional credit should have 
been provided to Mr C by a responsible lender and that Mr C lost out as a result. 
Putting things right
When this service upholds a complaint of this type we normally direct businesses to put the 
consumer in the position they would be in now if the mistakes it made hadnt happened. In 
Mr Cs case this would ordinarily mean directing that NewDay refund any interest and 
charges and remove adverse information from Mr Cs credit file. However, I agree with our 
investigator that on this occasion NewDay needs to go further. I think NewDay should do as I 
have described above but when this has happened if there is any outstanding balance that 
this should be written off too. I dont think it is appropriate to remove adverse information 
from Mr Cs credit file where any balance is written off as this may not be in Mr Cs best 
interests (nor that of potential future lenders). However, if, after the fees and charges have 
been removed and Mr Cs payments accounted for, Mr C is due a refund then any adverse 
information should be removed from these accounts as usual. 
To be clear, I direct NewDay should:
Remove any interest, fees and charges accrued on any balance over £250 from 9
January 2020 on Mr Cs first (Marbles) account, and any interest, fees and charges
incurred at any time on any other account. Any repayments Mr C has made should 
be deducted from the remaining balances.
Write off any remaining balance on the accounts and release Mr C from any
ongoing obligations under the agreement. If removing the interest and charges from 
any account results in a positive balance, NewDay can set this off against other 
accounts to be written off.
If this process results in Mr C having repaid more than he borrowed, any 
overpayment should be refunded with 8% compensatory interest* calculated from the 
date of overpayment to the date of settlement.
 Record any accounts that have been written off on Mr Cs credit file to reflect this 
and ask the third party to remove any information they may have recorded about the 
accounts on Mr Cs credit file. If, after the fees, charges and interest have been 
removed, and Mr Cs payments accounted for, Mr C  is due any refund, any adverse 
information should be removed from these accounts.
If any accounts are being collected by any third party NewDay should re-acquire the 
debt. It is isnt possible or practical to do so, NewDay will need to liaise with the third 
party to achieve the same outcome for Mr C.*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr C a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part and direct NewDay Ltd to put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman