DRN-2705284
The complaint
Ms J complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited failed to remove a trade block on 
her account. This meant that when Ms J tried to sell an investment she had, she was 
prevented from doing so  and subsequently sold the investment at a worse price. 
What happened
In October 2019 Interactive Investor took over Ms Js account from another broker Ill refer to 
as Company A. Prior to her account being transferred, Ms J had initiated a partial transfer 
away from Company A to another broker Ill refer to as Company B. As is common during 
transfers of stock in specie, a trade block was placed on her account with Company A in 
order to facilitate the transfer and ensure that assets being transferred did not reduce or 
increase. Normally, once the transfer is completed, the trade block is removed so the 
consumer can carry on trading as normal. However in Ms Js case, Company A failed to 
remove the trade block from her account when this transfer to Company B completed in 
August 2019. 
On 23 February 2020 Ms J attempted to sell some units in a fund she owned. However, she 
received an error message that said trading on her account was blocked. She contacted 
Interactive Investor on 24 February to inquire about the issue  and the block was removed 
at around 9am on 25 February. However, the value of the fund had dropped and she 
received around £730 less than she would have had she been able to sell on 23 February 
2020, so she complained. 
Interactive Investor considered her complaint. It explained that when it took over her account 
in October 2019 it received it in the same state as it had been with Company A.  It did not 
consider it was obliged to monitor or ensure that the account had no trading blocks applied 
to it. It noted that the volume of customers which had their accounts migrated to it from 
Company A meant that it would not have been possible for it to have monitored each 
individual one. It considered it was Ms Js responsibility to ensure her account was operating 
as she expected, and to notify it if it wasnt. It also noted that when she did notify it that she 
was unable to trade on her account, the block was removed the following day. As a result, it 
offered £30 as a goodwill payment, but did not consider it ought to pay her any further 
compensation  nor that it should be responsible for the financial loss she was alleging she 
had suffered. 
Ms J remained unhappy and referred her complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into her complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. In summary, he considered 
that the terms of the account meant that Ms J was responsible for monitoring it and ensuring 
it operated in line with her expectations. He explained the reasons why a trading block had 
been applied to her account by Company A, and why it was still present when her account 
was migrated to Interactive Investor. Ultimately, he didnt consider it was Interactive 
Investors fault that she had been unable to trade, and as a consequence, didnt think it 
would be fair to ask it to compensate her for the difference in price. 
Ms J didnt agree. She didnt agree that Interactive Investor wasnt aware of the block on her 
account, and considered that it wouldve been aware at the time her account was migrated 
that this block was there. She considered Interactive Investor wouldve known at the time 
how many accounts were migrated over with a trade block, and shouldve proactively 
contacted customers to remove the block from their accounts  or to notify them if further 
action was required. 
She said that she had accessed her accounts numerous times since the transfer, and there 
had never been any indication that there was a trading block on it. In addition, there was 
nothing she could do to remove the block  it had to be done by Interactive Investor. She 
said that as an execution only service she expected Interactive Investor to provide her timely 
access in order that she be able to manager her account, and it had failed to do this. This 
caused her a financial loss for which she thought she should be compensated. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Im afraid I dont have much to add to what the investigator has already said. Ive considered 
the reason behind the trading block on Ms Js account. It seems to me that this was 
something which Company A wouldve been responsible for removing in a timely fashion, 
once the transfer to Company B had been finalised. Its failure to do this isnt something I can 
attribute to Interactive Investor. 
In addition, I accept that the only way Interactive Investor wouldve known about this trading 
block on Ms Js account wouldve been for it to have reviewed each account that was 
migrated over. And as it has explained, not all trading blocks wouldve been as a result of 
previous transfers  some wouldve been imposed for other reasons, including by customers 
themselves. I dont agree that it would be fair and reasonable for Interactive Investor to have 
reviewed her account in October 2019 and contacted her about the trading block specifically 
in order to check whether this was something she had placed herself. Ultimately, monitoring 
her ability to trade on the account was something Ms J was responsible for  and I consider 
it was for her to satisfy herself that trading was possible from August 2019, when the transfer 
to Company B happened, onwards. 
I can see the terms of the account specifically say that Ms J accepted full responsibility for 
monitoring her account  given that Interactive Investor was providing an execution only 
service to her, I think it wouldve been reasonable for it to rely on Ms J contacting it if and 
when she encountered problems using her account as she wanted. 
I acknowledge she says there was nothing indicating her account had a trade block  but I 
consider it likely Company A wouldve notified her of this at the time she initiated the transfer 
to Company B, before her account was migrated to Interactive Investor. In any event, given 
how significant her ability to trade on her account was for her, I consider it was her 
responsibility after the migration in October 2019 to ensure that her account was operating 
the way she expected it to. 
Ultimately, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to hold Interactive Investor 
responsible for a trading block on Ms Js account placed by a different firm some two months 
before her account was migrated over to it  and which caused a loss of opportunity four months after that. Im satisfied that, while unfortunate, ensuring her account was able to 
trade as normal was something Ms J was responsible for. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman