DRN-2920607
The complaint
Mr Y has complained that Experian Limited told him he had an excellent credit score, but 
told a utility company he was a high risk.
What happened
In December 2020, a utility company Ill refer to as B carried out a credit check using 
Experian. Under the criteria that B set, B concluded that Mr Y was a high risk, and declined 
him for a smart meter.
Mr Y complained, as Experian told him he had an excellent score. He felt theyd given him 
and B conflicting information.
Experian explained that the credit score they gave Mr Y and the credit scores companies 
worked out based on their own criteria were different things. Here, B worked out their own 
score based on their own criteria.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that B were responsible for the criteria they set and the way they scored Mr Ys 
file. They noted B had not searched the correct electoral roll data. They gave Mr Y the 
details for the Energy Ombudsman if hed like to pursue B.
Mr Y didnt agree. He felt Experian had told B he had a low score and had created the score 
on Bs behalf. He felt Experian should not have given him a low score based on an incorrect 
search of the electoral roll. He felt Experian had published misleading material about him on 
their website.
Mr Y asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Credit reference agencies scores are not universal, and lenders dont make all their 
decisions based on that credit score. The score Mr Y sees on his personal Experian file is 
just an illustration of how Experian reckons lenders might look at his credit history. Its not a 
guarantee of what any given company will think. Its just a general indication, which helps 
customers get a simple overview of how their credit file might be looked at.
Meanwhile, individual companies have their own criteria for how they assess credit files. 
Here, Experian did not tell B how to look at Mr Ys file, nor set Bs criteria, nor make any 
decision about whether or not to grant Mr Y a smart meter. That was all done by B rather 
than Experian.
I understand Mr Ys point that B were using Experians system to look at his file, and that the 
credit check appeared under Experians branding. But ultimately, while B may have been 
using Experians tools, it was Bs check  it was B who chose its own criteria to reach its own 
score, and it was B who decided whether or not to grant Mr Y a smart meter. Experian did 
not dictate to B that Mr Y was a high risk  that was Bs own assessment of his file based on 
Bs own criteria. Experian also did not tell B what kind of electoral roll search they should do 
 again, that was Bs decision and Bs action. And to clarify, Experian did not publish any 
adverse data about Mr Y on their website in any public fashion  the credit check was kept 
private between Experian, B, and Mr Y.
It would not be fair for me to hold Experian responsible for a separate utility companys 
actions or decisions. Our investigator has given Mr Y the details for the Energy Ombudsman 
if he wants to pursue B.
I would be concerned if, for example, Experian were displaying the wrong information on 
Mr Ys credit file  e.g. if they were incorrectly showing an account as being in a default, or 
displaying the wrong persons information on his file. But as far as both sides have told us, 
nothing on Mr Ys credit file is incorrect in such a manner. 
While I appreciate Mr Ys point of view, I cant see that Experian have made any error here. 
So I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint in this case.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case. We are not 
allowed to review the case or consider it any further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman