DRN-3207567
The complaint
Mr H says Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (Mitsubishi)  which was trading as 
Hitachi Personal Finance at the time  has unfairly declined his claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In March 2021, Mr H borrowed £2,650.50 from Mitsubishi to buy hearing aids from a 
company Ill call Business A. He also paid a deposit of £294.50. He received the hearing 
aids on 12 March 2021, and they were inserted by, or under the supervision of, an 
audiologist. Mr H says when he went for his initial assessment, he made it clear he wanted 
hearing aids that were secure in his ear  and unlikely to fall out. He says he also made it 
clear he didnt want hearing aids that gave a roaring sound when outdoors in the wind. Mr H 
says he purchased the hearing aids the audiologist recommended.
Unfortunately, one of Mr Hs hearing aids fell out while he was in his garden on 
13 March 2021 and he was unable to find it. Mr H subsequently returned the other hearing 
aid to Business A and asked for a full refund. It offered a partial refund of £870 for the 
hearing aid Mr H returned but said it wouldnt provide a full refund if Mr H was unable to 
return the other one too.
Mr H contacted Mitsubishi to make a claim under section 75 of the CCA.
Mitsubishi declined Mr Hs claim. In a letter dated 3 June 2021, it said it was satisfied there 
was no breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Unhappy with Mitsubishis response, Mr H referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators didnt think it was unfair for Mitsubishi to decline his claim.
Mr H disagrees with the investigators conclusions and has asked that an ombudsman make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the CCA protects consumers who buys goods and services on credit. It says, 
in certain circumstances, the finance provider is legally answerable for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. And section 9 of the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says any goods supplied must be of satisfactory quality  
that is, they must meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory.
Essentially, Mr H says his hearing aids were not of satisfactory quality because they were 
not sufficiently secure in his ears and he heard wind roar shortly after he left Business A. 
Mr H has explained that the night before he lost the hearing aid in his garden, one fell out 
when he removed his pullover. And hes explained that the hearing aids were less secure 
than the NHS behind the ear sort or another retailers in the ear canal sort.
On receipt of Mr Hs claim under section 75, Mitsubishi spoke to Business A and then 
provided its response in a letter dated 3 June 2021. Relying on Business As testimony, it 
said:
Mr H had confirmed he was happy with the process when the hearing aids were fitted 
on 12 March 2021.
Business A was willing to arrange a partial refund for the hearing aid Mr H returned in 
accordance with the terms and conditions.
Mr H had not made Business A aware of any problems with the hearing aids before 
he returned one of them. Business A says if he had, it is confident it could have 
adjusted the fit of the hearing aids at a follow-up appointment, after hed had some 
time to get used to them.
Mr H told Business A he was able to successfully insert the hearing aids when they 
were dispensed  and that hed inserted them on the day one was lost.
Business A says that if Mr H had any difficulty inserting the hearing aids, he should 
have contacted Business A and it would have provided additional support.
It was satisfied the hearing aids were not mis-sold and there was no breach of 
contract or misrepresentation.
I know that Mr H will be very disappointed, but as the hearing aid has been lost, it simply 
isnt possible for me to say whether it was or was not of satisfactory quality. The mere fact 
that it fell out of his ear does not prove it was not of satisfactory quality. After all, Mr H has 
lost hearing aids in the past. And in a letter dated 13 April 2021, Business A explained to 
Mr H that it could have addressed the wind roar by adjusting the settings. Simply put, Ive 
seen insufficient evidence to conclude that there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. I do not, therefore, think it was unfair for Mitsubishi to decline Mr Hs 
claim under section 75 of the CCA.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman