DRN-3027471
The complaint
T complains that BUPA Insurance Limited wont refund premiums it paid for a group private 
dental insurance policy.
What happened
T had a group private dental insurance policy, which it took out through a broker. The policy 
year ran from 2 June 2019 until 1 June 2020. 
In 23 March 2020, national lockdown was imposed by the UK government as a result of the 
Covid-19 pandemic. This led to the closure of NHS and private dentists to prevent the virus 
spreading.
Ts directors asked both its broker and BUPA whether there would be any premium refund 
due as a result of the beneficiaries under the policy being unable to access treatment while 
dental practices were closed.
BUPA explained that there was no plan to offer refunds on its private dental insurance 
policies. Ts directors received a renewal letter which quoted a premium increase for the 
following policy year. Ultimately, Ts policy with BUPA lapsed on 1 June 2020 and the 
directors arranged personal dental cover.
As BUPA had refused to refund the premiums T had paid, or to extend the term of the 2019-
20 policy to reflect the lockdown period, Ts directors asked us to look into Ts complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ts complaint should be upheld. He explained that BUPA had 
continued to provide remote, emergency dental services. He considered that T had 
continued to benefit from the insurance contract. And he didnt think it would be fair to ask 
BUPA to refund premiums when services were affected for reasons beyond its control.
Ts directors disagreed and Ive summarised their response. They didnt think insured people 
would be able to foretell future events. They said the policy terms included a list of specific 
things the policy excluded, but it was silent on an insureds rights if no services were 
available due to a pandemic. They considered this to lead in an imbalance in the rights of the 
contracted parties and therefore, they felt the contract should be interpreted in Ts favour. 
They considered that BUPA wasnt acting in good faith. They didnt feel it was Ts 
responsibility to subsidise any losses BUPA suffers in the payment of claims and they felt 
BUPA was profiting from Ts inability to make use of the policy. They also stated that BUPA 
was providing rebates for some of its other products.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I need to make it clear that this decision will 
only focus on whether BUPA is entitled to keep the premiums T has paid. Ive considered a 
complaint about the way BUPA handled claims brought by beneficiaries of the group scheme 
separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think BUPA has treated T fairly. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Ts directors that while Ive summarised their detailed responses to 
our investigator, Ive carefully considered all theyve said and sent us. In making my decision 
though, I havent commented on each and every point theyve raised and our rules dont 
require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues. 
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Ts complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of its contract with BUPA as 
well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance. 
The terms and conditions of Ts policy say the plan is for one year and that premiums must 
be paid for BUPA to provide cover during that year. Insurance policies are intended to cover 
the risk of an uncertain event happening over the duration of the contract. An insurer is 
entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk during that time, even if no 
successful claim has been made under the policy. 
BUPA provided cover under Ts private dental insurance policy from 2 June 2019 to 1 June 
2020. BUPA is entitled to retain the premium it charged to cover the risk of the policy 
beneficiaries making a claim during the policy year. And the terms of Ts plan set out its 
cancellation rights under the contract. These say that if T cancelled the policy within 21 days 
of either receiving the policy documents, or the cover start date, it would be entitled to a full 
refund of any premiums paid (unless any claims had been made). If T chose to cancel the 
policy at any point after 21 days, BUPA would refund the premiums thatd been paid after the 
date the cover ended. Theres no term in the contract which allows T to obtain a refund if 
dental practices close. Or to extend the term of the contract if dental services werent 
available. So I think it was fair for BUPA to tell Ts directors that a rebate wasnt available.
Its clear how strongly Ts directors feel about the clarity of the policy wording. I dont agree 
that the policy is unclear or ambiguous though. I think the contract clearly sets out when 
payments are due; the duration of the plan and a policyholders cancellation rights. I also 
think it makes clear the things that BUPA does and doesnt cover.
I appreciate Ts directors consider the policy was unusable between March 2020 and the 
date the policy lapsed. I dont think its accurate to say Ts policy was unusable. I note that 
BUPA did offer the policy beneficiaries the chance to make use of remote dental 
consultations. I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to refund premiums if dental treatment 
was unavailable due to circumstances outside of its control. Im satisfied the closure of 
private and NHS dental practices due to government restrictions between 23 March and 8 
June 2020 to prevent the spread of Covid-19 was outside of BUPAs control. 
And I dont think commercial decisions BUPA has made in relation to its Covid-19 response 
for separate products it provides are relevant to the outcome of this complaint. BUPA is 
entitled to make commercial decisions, so long as it doesnt unfairly single out consumers in 
any way. In this case, BUPA has decided against offering rebates to all of its dental 
policyholders. So Im satisfied T hasnt been unfairly treated or singled out in any way.
Overall, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
require BUPA to refund any premiums to T.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T and T to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman