DRN-3185604
The complaint
Mr S complains about some pension investment advice he was given by Portal Financial 
Services LLP. In particular he complains about the information he was given on those 
investments when he was looking to encash some of them in 2019. When that proved 
unsuccessful he became concerned about the safety of all the pension savings that Portal 
had invested on his behalf.  
What happened
Mr S held pension savings, both in two occupational schemes (on a deferred defined benefit 
basis) and in a personal pension that he was still contributing to. In 2012, when he reached 
55 years of age, he was provided with advice by Portal about his pension savings.
Portals report from the time records that it didnt initially recommend that Mr S transfer his 
pension savings from the two occupational schemes (OPS). And it also advised that he left 
his personal pension in situ as he was still making regular contributions to that plan. But 
following discussions with Mr S, Portal says it agreed to treat him as an insistent client and 
facilitate the transfers from the two OPS arrangements. So, in late 2012 Mr Ss pension 
savings were transferred to a new self-invested pension plan (SIPP) and invested in line with 
Portals recommendations. Mr S took a pension commencement lump sum (PCLS  
otherwise known as tax free cash) that he said he wanted to use to pay for a wedding and 
create an emergency fund.
Portal recorded that Mr S had a moderately adventurous attitude to risk. It recommended 
that his pension savings were invested across four Unregulated Collective Investment 
Schemes (UCIS). Although over the years Portal provided Mr S with upbeat assessments of 
the progress of his investments, they have in fact performed poorly. In 2019 Mr S was told 
by the SIPP administrator that at least one of his investments was now worthless. It was that 
information that caused him to become concerned about the suitability of the advice hed 
been given by Portal and the security of his pension savings.
Mr Ss complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think it had been 
reasonable for Portal to treat Mr S as an insistent client, and so it shouldnt have facilitated 
the transfer of his pension savings from the OPS. And our investigator didnt think the 
investments Portal recommended were suitable for what he knew of Mr Ss circumstances. 
So he thought that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld and he asked Portal to put things 
right.
Portal didnt agree with our investigators assessment. In brief it said that it had carefully 
followed the regulators requirements for dealing with insistent clients. It thought that Mr S 
had been given clear information about the risks of the transfer, and that he had decided to 
proceed regardless. It said that it had considered other ways that Mr S could raise the capital 
he was seeking, but those were unsuitable.
Since the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr S accepts my decision it is 
legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr S and by Portal. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
As Portal will be aware, unlike the Courts, I am not limited to looking only at the issues a 
consumer has focused on in their complaint. Our approach is "inquisitorial" - rather than the 
"adversarial" procedures of the courts, where the lawyers for the two sides "fight it out". By 
law, I am required to resolve complaints fairly. This means I decide what questions to ask to 
get to the bottom of things. And it means I can concentrate on the relevant facts of the case, 
rather than the complaint as presented.
Here, Mr Ss complaint appears to have primarily been triggered by concerns about some 
information he had been given when he tried to encash some of his pension savings. But 
those problems would then reasonably lead to a consideration of the actual investments that 
had been recommended to him. And those investments only arose as a result of Portal 
agreeing to facilitate Mr Ss transfer of pension benefits from the OPS. So I think it fair and 
reasonable that my starting point for considering this complaint should be the advice that 
Mr S was given, and Portals actions, in 2012.
I think there are three matters that I need to consider here. Firstly, whether the advice Portal 
gave to Mr S about potentially transferring his pension savings from the OPS was suitable. 
I then need to think about whether it was right for Portal to treat Mr S as an insistent client, 
and facilitate the transfer of his pension benefits despite it being contrary to its advice. And 
finally, should I consider Portal acted reasonably in the first two aspects, then to consider the 
advice it gave to Mr S about the investment of his pension savings.
The applicable rules, regulations, and requirements 
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Portal advised Mr S were 
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like Portal, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, Portal 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr Ss objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement 
for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer 
out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to   
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the clients best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;  
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
In looking at the suitability of a transfer of Mr Ss pension savings I think Portal gathered the 
necessary information from Mr S and the administrators of his OPS. It used that information to calculate what is known as the critical yield. In simple terms, that is the rate at which 
Mr Ss pension investments would need to grow after any transfer in order to replicate the 
benefits that he was giving up from the OPS. Portal estimated that for Mr S the critical yields 
for each OPS would be 9.1% and 12.61% respectively. Portal rightly concluded that 
achieving that critical yield would be unlikely, and so it couldnt recommend that Mr S 
transfer his pension savings from the OPS.
I think that was the correct recommendation in Mr Ss circumstances. He held valuable 
guaranteed benefits with the OPS. And although he did hold another pension plan, these 
schemes would form a fundamental part of his provisions to support his living costs once he 
had retired. So I dont think it would have been appropriate to recommend that Mr S give up 
his guaranteed benefits and transfer his pension savings to a SIPP.
Portal says that, once it had delivered its advice to Mr S, to not transfer his pension savings, 
he asked to be treated as an insistent client. That would mean that Mr S was effectively 
disregarding Portals advice and asking that the transfer progress regardless. That insistent 
client process does however place a number of obligations on Portal to ensure that it has 
provided Mr S with sufficient information about the risks he was taking. And it is important for 
Portal to ensure that it hasnt acted in such a way that Mr S was persuaded to follow an 
insistent approach.
I have a number of concerns about whether it was reasonable for Portal to treat Mr S as an 
insistent client. And in particular whether Portals actions encouraged Mr S to follow that 
approach, or that he even fully understood the decisions he was being asked to make.
As part of my investigation into this complaint I have asked Mr S for his recollections of his 
relationship with Portal at the time of the transfer. I must acknowledge that Mr S is being 
asked to recall events that took place almost ten years ago. So, over such a period of time, 
even the most careful of memories can and do fade. But I have no reason to doubt that Mr S 
has provided his complete and honest recollections of what happened.
I asked Mr S why he thought it had been unreasonable for Portal to have treated him as an 
insistent client. Mr S responded with the following;
I dont understand why they are saying I was an insistent customer when in fact I would 
say they welcomed me with open arms. At the time of the transfer they could not match 
the rate I was getting but assured me that as a long-term investor I would achieve a 
better rate. At the time I was looking for advice on how to make the best of my 
investment so I approached Portal as I thought they would be able to advise me as they 
are a big company and I assumed would give me good advice. If they had told me that 
they could not help me I certainly would not have insisted that they take my money, after 
all if they couldnt help me I could, and would have gone elsewhere.
From that testimony I think it would be fair to conclude that Mr S was aware that the 
calculations Portal had performed for him suggested that he would have been better off (in 
financial terms) by not making the transfer. But it also seems that he given the impression 
that, over the longer term, moving his pension benefits to the SIPP would leave him better 
off. And it certainly doesnt appear that Mr S understood that he was asking to be treated as 
an insistent client and acting against the recommendation of Portal.
So I dont think I can reasonably say that Mr Ss conversations with Portal sufficiently set out 
the contrary argument  and in particular explained the regulators assumption that generally 
transfers of this nature would not be considered to be in the best interests of a consumer. 
I think that Portals actions raised an expectation for Mr S that he should take his PCLS.It is my understanding that the insistent client process is in place to provide a route for 
experienced and fully informed consumers to be allowed to make their own investment 
decisions. At times consumers might wish to take approaches that are not always in their 
best financial interests. But it would be wrong for regulators to prevent those decisions if the 
consumer is fully aware of the risks they are taking.
I dont think that sentiment applies in this case. Mr S has provided testimony that suggests 
he didnt understand what was happening with his pension savings. He appears to have 
been unaware of the terminology insistent client until he made his complaint. I havent seen 
anything to cast doubt on what he says.
The options form that Portal sent to Mr S, before he made his decision about how to proceed 
showed the transfer of his benefits as Option 1. And the Do Nothing option was listed as 
Option 2. That in itself might have subliminally suggested to Mr S that he should proceed 
with the transfer, despite it being against the advice of Portal.
So, on balance, I dont think it is reasonable for Portal to say that it only effected the transfer 
because Mr S requested it to do so as an insistent client. I dont think that Portal could 
reasonably conclude that Mr S was fully aware of its advice that he should take no action at 
all  instead I think that, from the very outset of its relationship with Mr S, Portal most likely 
led him to understand that transferring his pension benefits and taking a PCLS would be an 
appropriate course of action.
Given that I have concluded that Mr S shouldnt have been treated as an insistent client, it 
follows that I dont think Portal should have assisted him with the transfer of his pension 
benefits from the OPS. I will therefore direct Portal to put things right for Mr S by applying the 
regulators guidance on redress of this nature. And by doing that any problems with the 
subsequent advice given to Mr S about the investment of his pension savings will also be 
corrected. So I dont need to consider that part of the complaint any further.
So I uphold Mr Ss complaint, and direct Portal to put things right.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mr S, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in if he had remained a member of the OPS. Portal must therefore 
undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as 
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ss acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ss 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ss SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mr S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Portal Financial Services LLP to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman