DRN-4205729
The complaint
Mr C complains that Argyle Consulting Ltd (Argyle) should have done more to stop him and 
his wife (Mrs C) from encashing funds from their pension and investment portfolios. He 
says his instructions were accepted, despite Argyle knowing he was vulnerable and
experiencing a significant episode of mental illness.
Mr C is being represented in this complaint, but for ease of reading I have referred
to some comments as being those of Mr C.
What happened
Argyle have managed investment and pension portfolios for Mr and Mrs C jointly and
individually, for many years.
In April 2021, Mr C contacted their advisor at Argyle, asking about the tax implications of
withdrawing money from across their portfolios. Argyle say they wrote to Mr and Mrs C at the
beginning of May 2021 with this information and advised them against it. Following this Mr C
raised a complaint about the advisor, regarding a lack of communication and the tax advice
they were given. Argyle say Mr and Mrs C went ahead with the encashment anyway.
Mr and Mrs C subsequently complained to Argyle. They said Argyle were aware that Mr C 
suffered with bipolar disorder and provided significant amounts of evidence (including emails
and messages) which they say show that Argyle was aware that Mr C didnt have the mental
capacity to make such a decision. They say Argyle should have done more to stop the
encashment by ceasing to act. They said not doing so has caused them significant
emotional distress and financial loss.
Argyle responded to say that they advised Mr and Mrs C against encashment. Whilst they
acknowledged that Mr C had been unwell when he made the request, they 
had spoken to Mrs C and their son, who had both told Argyle to go ahead with the request.
Mr and Mrs C remained dissatisfied and through the representative they now have, they said
that Argyle hadnt done enough. Amongst several complaint issues, they said:
Mrs C had not given express authority for the encashment;
Argyle were aware that Mr C didnt have mental capacity at the time of the request;
Mr C wasnt appropriately treated as a vulnerable customer; and
Argyle should have ceased to act and that it wasnt relevant whether Mr and Mrs C
had already entered into a forward contract with the proceeds.
Our investigator looked into it, but he thought Argyle had taken reasonable steps to check
the request. He didnt think that it was fair to expect Argyle not to have gone through with the
encashment, after checking with Mr Cs wife and son.
As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. The
representative has provided details of other cases this service has decided on, in similar
circumstances. Whilst I am aware of them and the decisions reached, each case is decided
 on its own merits.
I issued a provisional decision, an extract of which is below and forms part of this decision.
My provisional decision
Firstly, I would like to empathise with what Mr C and his wife have been going 
through. As well as ill health, they have said they have suffered considerable 
financial loss and I know this has been a very difficult period for them. However, my 
decision is focused on whether Argyle should have done more before acting on their 
encashment request. I dont think they should have and I will explain why.
The capacity of Mr C and the decision of Argyle to continue to act for him and Mrs C
Following Mr Cs request in April 2021 for advice on the tax implications of any 
encashment, he contacted Argyle on 5 May 2021 requesting withdrawals. He later 
made it clear this was for a currency purchase contract he had entered into (with the 
intention to buy property and a business abroad) and provided a copy of this.
Argyle were aware that Mr C suffered with bipolar disorder and had previous 
significant mental ill health. I am also aware from the evidence provided by Mr and 
Mrs Cs representative, that the advisor at Argyle will have been aware that Mr C was 
not well at the time of this request. I say this having been provided with many emails 
and messages exchanged between Mr C and the advisor. I agree that they appear 
almost incoherent, irrational and not in line with Mr Cs previous communications. I 
think this should have given Argyle reasonable doubt over Mr Cs capacity at the 
time.
Whilst I wouldnt have expected Argyle to immediately cease to act for Mr and Mrs C, 
I would have expected them to put some reasonable adjustments in place and take 
some further steps to legitimise the withdrawal request. I have gone on to consider 
what they did following the request and whether I would have expected them to do 
anything more.
Argyle have said that despite communication between the advisor and Mr C breaking 
down following an initial complaint being raised, he did continue to correspond with 
Mrs C. They have provided me with a copy of separate letters and emails to Mrs C. 
These explained the full implications and cost of the withdrawals.
Argyle were subsequently made aware that the encashment was for a forward 
currency contract that Mr C had entered into. They were provided with a copy of it 
and were told by email that it was for property purchases abroad. Argyle have said 
they contacted the currency provider with their concerns. They were reassured that 
they had spoken to both Mr and Mrs C, who were having coffee on their balcony in 
Tenerife and there was no apparent concern from Mrs C.Argyle also spoke to Mrs C separately on the phone. I have been provided with a 
transcript of this call. This call was two weeks after the initial request and no 
concerns were raised by Mrs C. She confirmed on several occasions that she was 
happy for the trades to proceed. Whilst I appreciate that Mrs C has subsequently said 
she was coerced into this communication by Mr C, I have to base my decision on 
what Argyle were aware of at the time.
Mrs C did however, suggest that Argyle contact her son. I can see they did this and 
have been provided with a copy of an initial email and notes from the subsequent 
call. Again, this email made clear what Mr Cs intentions were, that no action had yet 
been taken and that Mr C had raised a complaint already about Argyle and the 
advisors handling of the request. The advisor spoke to Mr and Mrs Cs son; he also 
raised no further concerns and suggested they go ahead as his father had requested.
Having considered all of this, I believe that Argyle took the necessary steps following 
the doubts over Mr Cs capacity. They contacted Mrs C and her son separately and
independently as well as the forward contract provider. They took their time with the 
request as they sought advice and made sure that all parties were aware of the costs 
and implications. A forward contract had been entered into and Mr C had also 
complained about the time being taken and the handling of the request. Considering 
this, I think Argyle acted fairly in continuing to act for Mr and Mrs C and proceeding 
with the encashments.
Express authority
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Argyle acted inappropriately as they didnt give 
express authority for the transactions. However, I dont agree that was the case. For 
these policies in particular, that were in Mr and Mrs Cs name,  they confirmed in 
writing and over the phone on 19 May 2021 that they wanted to go ahead with the 
encashment, as set out previously in writing by Mr C.
I think this sufficient confirmation and that Argyle acted fairly in accepting this as 
authority to proceed with the encashments.
Advice on tax and cost implications of encashments
I have also gone on to consider whether Argyle acted appropriately in making Mr and 
Mrs C aware of the tax and cost implications involved with encashing their policies. I 
can see that Argyle wrote to Mr and Mrs C on three occasions with this information, 
on 5, 7 and 10 May 2021. and I have been provided with these letters.
The letter dated 5 May 2021 set out what was required to realise the amount that Mr 
and Mrs C required and gave the exact cost in £1000s for this. The letter from Argyle 
explained that they did not know at the time what this money was intended for but 
said, based on the above I would add that I cannot envisage any investment that 
would be attractive enough to merit incurring such high levels of taxation. Any 
subsequent investment and associated costs would have to return this amount plus 
costs just to put you in the same position. As your risk profiles are cautious and you 
have regularly confirmed, I would urge you to consider this matter carefully before 
proceeding.
The letter of 7 May 2021 explained that they were now aware that the intention was 
to purchase property in Spain. Argyle highlighted six points regarding concerns andconsiderations for such purchases and went on to say, I hope that the above 
comments are helpful in your decision making and that you understand my concern 
that you fully consider all the implications of encashing the majority of your financial 
assets to invest in the holiday rental market in Spain.
Argyle wrote again on 10 May 2021, giving updated figures for the costs payable for 
the new increased amount that Mr and Mrs C wanted to realise. They also included, 
As mentioned in my letters of 5th May and 7th May, I am disappointed you did not 
seek my advice before embarking on this course of action. Based on the taxation 
implications which are clearly significant it would not have been my advice to proceed 
with the encashment of your financial assets in this way. I outlined some of the 
additional factors which need to be considered around reinvesting the proceeds into 
holiday property lets in a foreign jurisdiction with all of the resultant implications.
I believe Argyle gave Mr and Mrs C appropriate notice of the implications involved 
with their request. They also made it clear on several occasions that they didnt agree 
with the action being taken and that Mr and Mrs C were acting against their advice. 
Despite this Argyle advised them of what they believed to be the most suitable and 
tax efficient ways of encashing. They did this whilst stating that Argyle are not tax 
advisers and the above calculations are estimates only. Large pension withdrawals 
may attract higher rates of tax than indicated. I havent seen anything to conclude 
that this advice was wrong or that the encashment should have been done another 
way.
Conclusions
In summary, I dont agree that Argyle should have ceased to act for Mr and Mrs C. 
Its fair to recognise that Mr and Mrs C had a legal entitlement to their own money 
and that Argyle were of the opinion that they needed the proceeds for a forward 
contract that they had already entered into.
Mr C was clearly a vulnerable customer of Argyle. This was evidenced by them being 
aware that he suffered from Bipolar disorder and the content of his communications 
with his advisor. Because of this we would expect Argyle to have put some further 
checks and support in place before carrying out the requested transactions. 
However, they did this, taking express authority to act from Mrs C over the phone 
and also speaking to her son. I also believe that Argyle gave sufficient notice to Mr 
and Mrs C of the implications involved and that they didnt agree with the action 
being taken.
Mr and Mrs C responded through their representative to maintain that they didnt believe that 
Argyle had taken the necessary steps before processing the encashment. They provided 
several substantial responses. The main points of consideration were:
Mrs C has not given proper instruction and authorisation, therefore Argyle have not 
followed their own policies for encashment. Specifically, that she never contacted the 
advisor in writing or over the phone between 5 and 19 May 2021. 
Mr and Mrs Cs son had spoken to Argyle and given clear and sufficient concern. 
They provided copies of correspondence between him and the advisor. Argyle had not contacted the currency provider as I thought, so they disputed that 
Argyle were aware of a binding forward contract that Mr and Mrs C couldnt come out 
of. 
Argyle were made aware of Mr and Mrs Cs responses and maintained their position. Within 
this they said that:
Mrs C was copied in on all correspondence and she gave written and verbal 
authorisation to Argyle, although not the advisor directly. 
They didnt take any instruction from Mr and Mrs Cs son, that the correspondence 
provided wasnt a true reflection of the conversations that took place and that in any 
case they didnt feel it contradicted the version of events they had given. 
Argyle also said that they didnt have any call recording of the conversation with the 
currency provider. However, they maintained that their version of events was 
accurate and provided another summary of what was discussed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered this and the responses to my provisional decision in full, I remain of the 
opinion that Argyle took reasonable steps and acted fairly, in continuing to act for Mr and 
Mrs C. I will address each of the specific considerations that their representative provided in 
response to my provisional decision. 
The representatives have firstly disputed that Mrs C gave authorisation to sell the holdings 
and therefore allege that Argyle didnt follow their own policy, which said Argyle needed 
confirmation in writing and over the phone. The representatives have also shown that the 
legal advice that Argyle got, said Argyle should request written confirmation from Mrs C 
(rather than taking requests solely from Mr C as they had done previously). 
Argyle have provided a copy of an email from Mrs C dated 18 May 2021, where she 
confirms she is in agreement with Mr Cs request to encash the funds. They have also 
provided a copy of a call from Mrs C on 19 May 2021, where she confirms the same. 
I think this was sufficient and was express authorisation from Mrs C. Argyle have said these 
communications were not with Mr and Mrs Cs advisor but with other members of staff, as 
part of their complaint process which had begun. I think this was reasonable and the 
requests were clear, regardless who the calls and emails were with. 
Mr and Mrs C have also provided evidence that their son did discuss concerns with Argyle 
about the encashments. This evidence includes an email from the advisor to their son, a 
written statement and exchanges between the son and his siblings about what was 
discussed. They have also complained that Argyle should not have taken instruction from 
their son, who they say was not aware of all information. Argyle have responded to say they didnt take instruction from the son, and I am satisfied 
this was the case. They spoke to him on the request of Mrs C. They made him aware of their 
concerns of the encashments. Whilst the evidence provided shows he had concerns about 
his fathers health, I dont believe he suggested Argyle didnt act or suggested a different 
course of action. Argyle have provided their notes of the call and they state that the son told 
them that if Mr C had given an instruction, they should follow it. 
Whilst the evidence from the representative doesnt support that Mr and Mrs Cs son said 
this, it does show that he didnt feel he could tell Argyle not to act. On balance, I do think 
whilst the advisor and son had concerns, I dont think the calls increased Argyles concern or 
made them aware of anything new. I dont think it is reasonable to expect Argyle to have 
ceased acting based on these conversations. 
Argyle have consistently maintained that they spoke to the third-party currency provider on   
5 May 2021, providing details and a time of the call. The importance of this was to stress that 
they believed a forward contract had been entered into and to add more legitimacy to the 
request from Mr C for encashment. 
However, Argyle havent been able to provide a call recording or call log to show it 
happened. Mr and Mrs Cs representative has said that it didnt and provided a written email 
from the third-party company saying that it didnt. 
However, on balance, I believe that the call did go ahead. I say this because I can see that 
the advisor was copied in on communications between the company and Mr C, so had the 
relevant contact details. Argyle have also been very consistent and detailed in what was 
discussed in this call and the time of it. Stating that it was 08.58am and that the person they 
spoke to had just spoken to Mr and Mrs C, whilst they were abroad. This seems to marry up 
with the circumstances of the day. They have notes from the time and referred to it from 
early correspondence. 
I acknowledge the submission from the third party. However, this seems to be following 
looking for a record of a call. It isnt directly from the person the call was apparently with, or 
including phone records to show it didnt happen. Whilst I cant be sure, on balance I believe 
the call happened and I believe Argyle were of the view (from this call and from other email 
correspondence too) that Mr C had entered into a forward contract and so his request for 
funds had a purpose. 
In summary, my findings on this case havent changed following the responses to my 
provisional decision. I still believe it was fair and reasonable  in the specific circumstances 
of this complaint  for Argyle to continue to act for Mr and Mrs C. Whilst there is uncertainty 
over the discussions with the son and currency provider, I dont think anything that has been 
suggested should have meant Argyle ceased to act. They took reasonable steps, got further 
advice and made further checks before proceeding with the request of Mr and Mrs C.
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman