DRN-1329563
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPl) policy taken out in 1995
alongside a Mastercard and Visa credit card. Mr G says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, mis-sold him the PPl.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPl on our website and 
I've taken this into account in deciding Mr G's case. I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold 
and I'll explain why.
Mr G says the paperwork was pre-filled and that the PPI was never explained properly to 
him. 
Looking at the evidence available from the time Ive seen that there was a separate section 
for PPI on the application form. This section required the applicant to tick if they wished to 
take out PPI alongside the cards. In Mr Gs application there is a tick in the box to agree to 
the cover, but there is nothing here to suggest the PPl had to be taken out. Even though 
Mr G says the form was pre-filled, there are personal details about Mr Gs circumstances at 
the time, so I think its likely he was involved in the completion of the application form. And 
he signed this document, so at the very least I think Mr G wouldve checked through this 
information before signing the form to agree to its contents. So, based on this I think it was 
clear Mr G had a choice about taking out the policy and he signed the form, so I think he 
agreed to the cover. 
Barclays recommended the PPl to Mr G so it had to check that the PPl was right for him -
and based on what I've seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For
example he wasn't affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPl cover and he
seems to have had a need for the cover.
Mr G says the PPl was not suitable for him because he was entitled to generous sick pay
from his employer and he would've had no difficulty maintaining his repayments. Mr G told 
us he had 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months half pay. The PPl would've covered 
10% of Mr G's outstanding monthly balance for up to 12 months - which would've been in 
addition to his sick pay and for longer than his full sick pay entitlement would've
lasted. And so, he could've used these funds for other expenses. Mr G also told us he
had some savings and some premium bonds that he couldve used. However, Mr G told us 
this wouldve only lasted him for up to three months. So overall, I think the PPl
would've been useful and I don't think his sick pay entitlement or limited savings meant the 
policy wasn't suitable for him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr G about the PPl wasn't as clear as it
should've been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks 
like it was affordable. So, I don't think better information about the PPl would have put him 
off taking out the cover.
Mr G says that he brought a similar complaint to us and that was upheld, so he feels this 
complaint should also be upheld. But each complaint is dealt with individually, and I cannot 
comment on the merits of any other case in my decision. But I want to assure Mr G that I 
have read and considered everything he has provided in support of his complaint but 
unfortunately, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman