DRN-2441731
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the settlement Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has paid 
them for a curtailment claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out an annual travel insurance policy with URV on 27 January 2020. On 
15 March 2020, they flew to Thailand for a holiday and they were due to fly back to the UK 
on 1 April 2020.
However, on 23 March 2020, they learned that their airline had suspended its flights. It told 
Mr and Mrs H that the earliest it could fly them home would be 11 April 2020  but this 
couldnt be guaranteed. Also on 23 March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) 
advised all UK travellers abroad to return home as soon as possible due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
Mr and Mrs H were able to book new flights with a different airline for a total cost of around 
16,560 THB. They were scheduled to fly back to the UK on 31 March 2020  which wouldve 
meant their holiday was cut short by one day. However, Mr and Mrs H became concerned 
that Thailand (and in particular, the island they were on) would go into a lockdown and that 
the airport would close. They were worried that they might be stuck on the island with no 
way to get back to the UK. So on 25 March 2020, Mr and Mrs H brought forward their return 
flight to 27 March 2020  at a total additional cost of 73,490 THB.
Following their flight back to the UK on 27 March 2020, Mr and Mrs H made a curtailment 
claim on their travel insurance policy for their additional flight costs (less a refund theyd 
received from their original airline) and for five nights of lost accommodation.
URV partially settled the claim. It paid for the costs Mr and Mrs H incurred for the initial flight 
theyd booked on 23 March, which theyd been due to take on 31 March 2020, together with 
the one night of accommodation theyd have lost if theyd flown home one day early. But it 
didnt agree to pay for the additional costs of bringing forward Mr and Mrs Hs flights, or for 
the other four nights of accommodation theyd claimed for. It said these costs simply werent 
covered by the policy terms. And it also said that the risk of Mr and Mrs H needing to make a 
claim because of Covid-19 wouldve been foreseeable to them at the point they took out the 
policy.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with URVs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. She considered the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Hs policy and was satisfied that the curtailment section covered claims 
which happen because of the FCO advising against all but essential travel. So she thought 
that by paying the costs that Mr and Mrs H had incurred on the day this advice was given  
23 March 2020 - URV had settled the claim in line with its policy terms. She didnt think the 
FCO had given any additional guidance after this date though, which wouldve meant that Mr 
and Mrs H needed to bring their return home forward any further. This meant she didnt think 
the additional flight costs Mr and Mrs H had incurred when they amended their flights to 27 
March 2020, or the four additional nights of accommodation they missed out on were 
covered by the policy terms.  
Mr and Mrs H disagreed. They said the reason theyd brought the flights forward to 27 March 
2020 wasnt because of any additional change to the FCO guidance, it was because the 
island they were on was starting to shut down. Thered been rumours that the airport would 
close. So they said they brought the flight forwards to mitigate the risk to URV of them being 
stranded on the island and incurring further costs. There had been flights available sooner 
than 31 March 2020  but these were substantially more expensive than the flights Mr and 
Mrs H booked on 23 March. They felt it was unfair that in trying to minimise their claim, 
theyd lost out.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think URV has settled Mr and Mrs Hs claim fairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive looked closely at the terms of Mr and 
Mrs Hs policy and the circumstances of their claim in deciding whether or not URV handled 
it fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the contract between Mr and Mrs H and 
URV. Curtailment cover is set out in section B11  If you had to cut your trip short. This 
section explains that URV will pay up to £5000 for a policyholders share of pre-paid 
accommodation; car hire and excursions which they cant get back from anyone else, as well 
as any additional travel expenses a policyholder incurs to get back home.
The policy says:
If this happened:
You had to cut short your trip because the following happened after you left home:
-the Foreign and Commonwealth Office advise against all but essential travel within a 
30 mile radius of your trip destination.
Theres no dispute that on 23 March 2020, Mr and Mrs Hs original airline let them know that 
they wouldnt be able to fly home as planned on 1 April 2020. Theres also no dispute that on 
23 March 2020, the FCO advised all UK nationals who were abroad to travel home as soon 
as possible. So it seems that by arranging an earlier return flight for 31 March 2020; Mr and 
Mrs H acted in line with the FCOs advice. I think then that it was reasonable and appropriate 
for URV to conclude that the flight costs Mr and Mrs H incurred at this point, together with 
the one night of accommodation theyd have lost out on if theyd taken this flight, was 
covered. And Im pleased to read that URV settled this claim promptly and in line with the 
policy terms.
I understand Mr and Mrs H feel that the additional flight costs they incurred after changing 
their flights again on 25 March 2020 should also be covered. Theyve told us that the island 
they were on was beginning to lock down and that they were worried about being stranded there if the airport closed. Ive thought very carefully about this. I can entirely appreciate why 
Mr and Mrs H wouldve been worried and why theyd have likely wanted to get home as 
quickly as they could.
But the FCO didnt offer any additional advice or updates to UK travellers abroad between 
23 and 25 March 2020  the date which Mr and Mrs H chose to pay out more to bring their 
booking forwards. There was no change to the guidance Mr and Mrs H had already acted 
on. Neither was the island they were staying on in lockdown at that point. It wasnt put into 
lockdown until 30 March 2020  five days after Mr and Mrs H had already chosen to bring 
their flights forward and three days after theyd flown home.
So it doesnt seem that Mr and Mrs Hs choice to amend their booking on 25 March 2020 
was the result of any further advice from the FCO. On this basis, I think it was reasonable for 
URV to conclude that the costs they incurred as a result of bringing their flights forward to 27 
March 2020 werent covered by the curtailment section of the policy. 
Its clear Mr and Mrs H have been left substantially out of pocket as a result of their claim 
and I sympathise with their position. Especially as theyve told us they originally chose to 
book their return flights for 31 March 2020 to try and keep URVs potential claim costs down. 
But taking all of the above into account, I think that URV has settled their claim fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the policy terms. So it follows that Im not telling URV to pay 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman