DRN-4183360
The complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) did not provide a suitable 
recommendation when it gave him abridged advice and then full advice on his defined-
benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme.
What happened
Mr D was entitled to take his DB pension scheme benefits in August 2021. So, a few months 
before this he contacted the scheme administrators to ask for details of his pension and the 
cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of it. Mr D was informed that he was entitled to a 
starting pension of £6,334.56 per year and the CETV was £179,193.
Mr D felt it was in his best interest to transfer the benefits to an existing pension with Aviva, 
so he contacted his independent financial adviser (IFA) to initiate the transfer process. As 
Mr Ds IFA wasnt prepared to advise him on his DB pension, he contacted Aviva.
In February 2022 Aviva provided Mr D with abridged advice; it concluded that it wasnt clear 
whether or not it would be in Mr Ds best interest to transfer his pension. So, Mr D proceeded 
with the full advice service. Aviva ultimately concluded that Mr D should not transfer out of 
his DB scheme. And it said it would be unable to process the transfer for him. Its report of 
June 2022 set out the reasons for its recommendation.
Mr D complained to Aviva, as he didnt understand how it had reached this conclusion  he 
didnt think it was supported by the information it had gathered. Mr D also felt that Aviva 
should have been able to recommend against the transfer at the abridged advice stage, and 
hed incurred unnecessary costs by having to proceed to full advice.
Aviva didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said it was reasonable to recommend that Mr D 
should remain in his DB scheme because it couldnt clearly demonstrate a transfer was in 
his best interests, which was what the regulator required. Aviva said it couldnt have 
recommended Mr D remain in the DB scheme at the abridged advice stage as it couldnt 
fully establish his capacity for loss without completing detailed financial analysis.
Mr D didnt accept this as he said his own calculations demonstrated he was in a strong 
financial position to transfer out of the DB scheme. 
Aviva didnt change its decision so Mr D referred his complaint to our Service. Mr D 
maintained that Aviva had enough information to recommend that he remain in his DB 
scheme at the abridged advice stage. He felt Aviva ought to have told him at that stage that 
if he was in good health and he didnt have sufficient guaranteed income to cover his 
expenses, they wouldnt likely recommend a transfer. Nevertheless, Mr D still thought the 
overall advice to remain wasnt suitable as he had clearly demonstrated he had sufficient 
guaranteed income and other assets to be able to take the risk of transferring his DB 
pension. He said Aviva had shown through its analysis he would be over £50,000 better off if 
he transferred out of the DB scheme and questioned what amount above this wouldve been 
acceptable to support a transfer.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She felt the 
advisers conclusion at the abridged advice stage was reasonable. And that ultimately the 
advice to remain in the DB scheme was suitable overall given the CETV offered poor value 
for money and Mr Ds goal of leaving an inheritance for his grandchildren couldve been met 
by using his other considerable assets. She didnt think it was clearly in Mr Ds best interests 
to transfer out of the DB scheme.
Mr D didnt accept this. He said Aviva hadnt used the correct state pension forecasts or 
inflation metrics and so the income modelling wasnt accurate. He feels accurate modelling 
of his income in retirement demonstrates that he would be significantly better off by 
transferring out of the DB scheme. Mr D also said that Aviva didnt record his tax position 
correctly  he says he intended to remain a non-taxpayer and Aviva incorrectly assumed he 
was a basic rate tax payer. He maintains that it was in his best interest to transfer so he 
could avoid paying income tax. Mr D also said that Aviva ought to have advised him to 
purchase added state pension years, and had it done so it couldve included this in the 
income modelling.
The Investigator didnt think the inaccuracies were significant such that it would have made a 
difference to Avivas advice. And she thought Aviva had discussed Mr D buying added state 
pension years but he didnt want to pursue this at the time. Mr D continued to disagree, so 
the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has provided a large amount of information with this complaint and I wont be 
commenting on all of it. But I have reviewed everything and my comments below reflect what 
I consider to be the key issues and my thoughts on them. If I dont mention any specific 
point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it to reach my decision.
Im aware that Mr D has asked Aviva for information which he says he needed to support his 
complaint. He says Aviva hasnt responded and that this has disadvantaged him. But Aviva 
has given its response to Mr Ds complaint and Mr D referred it to our Service for an 
independent review. So, I dont think it is unreasonable that Aviva does not wish to engage 
further with Mr D about his concerns, given that it is now with our service for determination. 
Im also satisfied the Investigator made enquiries with Aviva and requested information from 
it where appropriate, before issuing her findings.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Avivas actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Aviva initially provided Mr D with abridged advice; so in accordance with COBS 19.1A, its 
advice could only result in two outcomes. Either it would recommend that Mr D remained in 
his DB scheme or tell him that it was unable to take a view on whether it was in his best 
interests to transfer without undertaking full pension transfer advice. And crucially, in 
providing abridged advice it was not permitted to carry out appropriate pension transfer 
analysis (APTA), which would include comparing the benefits payable from the DB scheme 
with an alternative arrangement and other income modelling. 
When providing both abridged advice and full advice, Aviva had to have regard to the fact 
that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Aviva should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ds 
best interests.
The abridged advice
Although Mr D feels strongly that all of the information and evidence Aviva gathered clearly 
shows that it was in his best interests to transfer, Mr D initially said that Aviva should have 
advised him to remain in his DB scheme at the abridged advice stage. Thats because it was 
aware of his objectives, and understood his financial position, including his assets and other 
pensions that he intended to use for retirement. Mr D also says his own income modelling 
was available for Aviva to consider. He believes that Aviva unfairly required him to take the 
full advice service, at significant cost.
Ive considered this carefully, but overall I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to 
conclude at the abridged advice stage that it was unable to take a view on whether it was in 
Mr Ds best interests to transfer, without undertaking full pension transfer advice.
Aviva told Mr D in its abridged advice report that the aim of the abridged advice service was 
to identify customers for whom a transfer out of a DB scheme is clearly unsuitable  this 
saved those customers from incurring a significant advice fee. I dont think that is an 
unreasonable way to describe things. And based on the information Aviva gathered, Mr D 
did not present as a customer for whom a transfer out of a DB scheme was clearly 
unsuitable. I say this because Aviva determined Mr D had a moderate attitude to risk, as well 
as having fairly extensive investment experience and knowledge  he had an existing self-
invested personal pension (SIPP) and had funds invested in stocks and shares ISAs. While 
it understood Mr D didnt have sufficient guaranteed income in retirement to meet his needs, 
he had other pensions and assets that could supplement this. So, it was possible that Mr D 
had sufficient capacity for loss such that he could afford to take the risk of transferring his DB 
pension.
So, I think Aviva needed to undertake further detailed financial analysis to determine 
whether or not it was clearly in Mr Ds best interests to transfer. Mr D says it couldve 
reviewed his own cashflow modelling, which he said showed that even allowing for modest growth, investing his CETV put him in a better position financially. But in the FCAs Finalised 
Guidance (FG) 21/3 Advising on pension transfers, section 4.61 states:
You can use the information on accrued rights in the Statement to assess how well the DB 
scheme meets your clients needs and objectives. So, for example, you can revalue the DB 
scheme pension to normal retirement age or apply early retirement factors to assess how 
well it meets the clients needs and objectives, alongside their other retirement provision, ie 
you can model the benefits from the DB scheme against the clients expenditure needs. You 
can also consider the generic risks of transferring and losing those benefits, as well as the 
generic risks and benefits of transferring into an arrangement with DC benefits. But you 
cannot assess how well a proposed arrangement would meet their objectives and needs 
because abridged advice does not consider how funds might be invested if a transfer 
proceeded. This includes where a client could use a DC scheme to fund an immediate 
annuity purchase, or an immediate vesting personal pension plan, if this forms part of the 
clients objectives. So you may get the transfer value and consider it in the round, where 
needed to give one of the two outcomes. But you should not make projections based on the 
transfer value, get annuity illustrations or carry out any comparisons of the ceding scheme
benefits with a proposed receiving scheme. This type of modelling would be part of APTA so 
cannot be used when giving abridged advice.
Sections 4.63 and 4.64 also say:
You must not prepare a transfer value comparator (TVC), consider a receiving scheme or 
undertake appropriate pension transfer analysis (APTA) when giving abridged advice. If you 
include any of these, you will not be giving abridged advice and must charge appropriately.
We consider that if you use cashflow modelling based on the transfer value, you are likely to 
be undertaking APTA. This includes using the transfer value to project any form of future 
benefit, including using generic or assumed products and assumptions. This is because you 
would be able to compare the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme, 
which you can consider as part of abridged advice, with those available under the proposed 
scheme.
So, at the abridged advice stage, I dont think Aviva was permitted to carry out any analysis 
that involved projecting the future value of the CETV if invested, and that includes 
considering Mr Ds own calculations. So, Im satisfied that Avivas conclusion at the abridged 
advice stage was reasonable, based on the evidence it had and the analysis it was permitted 
to carry out under the abridged advice regulations. 
The full pension transfer advice
Mr D says he understands the FCAs starting position that a transfer out of a DB scheme 
wont usually be suitable, however, he says that Aviva is obligated under the law and 
regulations to facilitate a transfer. But that isnt the case, Aviva must start by assuming that a 
transfer wont be suitable and only recommend that a customer transfer out of a DB scheme 
if it can clearly demonstrate that it is in the customers best interests to do so. And Aviva told 
Mr D, before he agreed to undergo the full advice process, that it would not facilitate the 
transfer for him if it ultimately concluded that he should remain in his DB scheme. That is a 
policy decision it is free to make. However, that did not prevent Mr D from acting on his wish 
to transfer out of the scheme if he truly believed it was best for him.
I know Mr Ds preference was to transfer the CETV to Aviva, because he already had an 
existing SIPP with it. But Mr D had fulfilled the FCAs requirement to take advice, and so he 
was free to approach another provider to facilitate the transfer of his funds. Transferring his 
DB scheme was not dependent on him having received a positive recommendation to transfer from Aviva or any other financial adviser. So, while I appreciate Mr Ds frustration 
with Avivas recommendation, he can still explore other options that would allow him to 
transfer his pension.
Turning to the advice itself, I appreciate Mr D feels very strongly that Avivas 
recommendation to remain in his DB scheme was demonstrably the wrong decision, but 
overall I dont think the recommendation was unreasonable. Ill explain why.
Financial viability and death benefits
Mr D has made many comments about the financial viability assessment carried out by 
Aviva, including that it didnt contain correct state pension figures or take into account the 
recent higher inflation weve experienced. But I dont intend to address each of these points 
in detail because ultimately I dont believe those inaccuracies were significant, such that they 
wouldve had an effect on Avivas overall recommendation. And in terms of the inflation 
measures used by Aviva, the regulator sets out the assumptions that should be used. Even 
though inflation has been higher than this recently, it is subject to fluctuation. And I dont 
think Mr D could reasonably expect Aviva to depart from the regulators assumptions, given 
they are projected over a much longer period of time.
Mr D has also commented on the transfer value comparator (TVC) Aviva carried out. The 
TVC is a measure of what sum of money the consumer would need now to invest at a risk 
free return to provide equivalent benefits to the DB scheme at retirement. As Mr D was 
already at his normal retirement age, the TVC effectively gave him a clear understanding of 
the value for money the CETV offered by his scheme provided, because it showed him how 
much he needed to buy the equivalent guaranteed benefits on the open market straight 
away.
The TVC was based on an updated CETV of £167,816 and demonstrated that it would cost 
Mr D £251,824.48 to purchase the equivalent benefits via an annuity, an extra £84,008.48. 
I know that Mr D says he wasnt interested in purchasing an annuity at the time, but I think it 
clearly demonstrated the value of the benefits he would be giving up by transferring out of 
the DB scheme. While I note Aviva concluded that Mr D was willing to give up the 
guarantees and accept the risk of transferring, that doesnt mean that it was clearly in his 
best interests to do so, given he wasnt going to be able to replicate the benefits hed be 
giving up.
Mr D asks what margin between the CETV and the cost of replacing his benefits wouldve 
been acceptable to Aviva, but I dont think I there is a specific number that wouldve been 
acceptable. Ultimately the advice to remain in the DB scheme was based on a number of 
factors, which I will go on to discuss.
Mr D also says that transferring gave him the flexibility to take an annuity at a later date, if he 
decided that he wanted to have more guaranteed income. He says Aviva didnt consider this 
and that hes obtained a quote for an annuity recently, replicating the benefits of the DB 
scheme for less than the CETV, which demonstrates his point. But its evident that there 
have been significant events that have affected annuity rates since Aviva gave Mr D advice. 
And so it could not have known that the cost of replacing Mr Ds DB scheme benefits would 
fall in the near or even distant future  its advice could only have been based on the 
information known at the time. 
Mr D has also said that it isnt reasonable to describe the DB scheme benefits as guaranteed 
because they would only increase by 3% each year. As inflation has been higher than this 
over the last two years, and isnt likely to fall significantly in the near future, he says his 
benefits decrease in real terms. I understand Mr Ds point here, but it isnt unreasonable to describe the DB scheme benefits as guaranteed because they do in fact provide him with a 
guaranteed annual income that escalates by 3% each year  this doesnt depend on any 
investment performance. In contrast, the income he can derive from his CETV if invested is 
not guaranteed, it is wholly dependent on investment returns and is also impacted by 
inflation.
As part of the financial viability assessment, Aviva carried out cash flow modelling, which 
assumed a medium growth rate. It determined that whether Mr D remained in his DB 
scheme or not, he could meet his income and capital needs beyond age 99, even with stress 
testing. Aviva also said that at age 85 (the average life expectancy), his total fund would be 
around £51,000 higher if he transferred out of the scheme. Again, Mr D feels that this means 
a transfer ought to have been recommended. And if not, again questions what margin 
wouldve been appropriate.
Aviva ultimately concluded that by remaining in the scheme, Mr D was able to achieve his 
goals with less risk. And while the cash flow modelling demonstrated that Mr D wouldve 
likely had a higher fund value overall at age 85, that wasnt the case if, for example, he lived 
to age 92. Thats because more of the income he needed in retirement was made up of 
guaranteed, escalating income, so that left higher amounts in his savings and SIPP to 
continue to grow. I appreciate that Mr D had concerns about his life expectancy given his 
family history, but Mr D led an active lifestyle and was in good health. So, as Aviva pointed 
out, there was a significant chance of him exceeding his life expectancy. And if he lived a 
longer life, he couldve had more funds to pass on in the event of his death if he remained in 
the DB scheme.
Furthermore, while Mr D could have a fund worth more than £51,000 if he transferred out 
compared with the situation if he remained in it, his wife would also be eligible for a 
guaranteed escalating spouses pension on Mr Ds death for as long as she lived. This was 
in addition to the fund Mr D would leave behind. So, it isnt necessarily the case that Mr Ds 
wife would be better off financially if Mr D passed away at age 85, particularly if she lived 
beyond this age.
In addition to the above, when Aviva undertook stress testing on the modelling, this showed 
Mr D would have a higher fund value at age 85 and 90 if he remained in the DB scheme. 
And it also has to be borne in mind that the modelling Aviva carried out was based on 
consistent returns at the medium growth rate, which cant be guaranteed. So, if investment 
returns were lower than expected, or if Mr D decided to take less risk with his funds as he 
grew older (as most people do), that couldve had an impact on the overall fund value such 
that remaining in the scheme couldve produced a better overall outcome for him.
I recognise that Mr D believes that figures used to produce the income modelling couldve 
been more accurate. And he still feels that this wouldve made a difference overall and tip 
the recommendation in favour of transferring. But I dont think the state pension figures were 
so inaccurate that it wouldve made a difference to the recommendation, particularly in the 
circumstances that allowed for stress testing. And I think Aviva used reasonable inflation 
assumptions.
It's clear that Mr D was very interested in leaving behind a large inheritance to his family. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The immediate lump sum death benefits 
on offer by transferring was likely attractive to Mr D. But whilst I appreciate death benefits 
are important to consumers, and Mr D might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his 
DB scheme to his SIPP because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr D about what was 
best for his retirement provisions. Mr D already had the ability to pass on whatever remained of his savings and SIPP funds on 
his death to any beneficiary of his choosing. And by taking the guaranteed income from his 
DB scheme, this left more of those funds to grow and pass on. Im also mindful he couldve 
made arrangements to put his savings in a trust to mitigate any potential inheritance tax 
issues.
So, in light of this and the fact that the cash flow modelling demonstrated Mr D could achieve 
his objective of leaving a large inheritance, as well as meeting his own income needs, by 
remaining in the scheme, I think the conclusion Aviva reached that Mr D should remain in 
the DB scheme was reasonable. Its clear to me that remaining in the DB scheme enabled 
Mr D to meet his objectives without risking his pension provisions. And the income from the 
DB scheme, together with Mr Ds state pension entitlement, more or less covered his income 
needs. So, overall, I dont think the financial analysis Aviva carried out clearly demonstrated 
was in Mr Ds best interest to transfer. And for this reason, I think the advice it gave him 
overall was suitable.
Tax issues
Mr D says that Aviva didnt give enough consideration to his tax position, as it was required 
to do under COBS 19 Annex 4A. He says that remaining in the DB scheme would see him 
pay around £29,000 in tax up to age 85. Whereas he says he wouldve been able to ensure 
that he paid no tax if he transferred because he could keep his pension withdrawals within 
the personal allowance and take the remainder from his savings.
But Im satisfied that Aviva took Mr Ds tax position into account when making the 
recommendation. Mr D was clear that while his minimum income requirements were low, he 
expected to take ad-hoc sums from his pension for holidays, special purchases and other 
expenditure. Furthermore, Aviva noted in the abridged advice report:
You prefer the ability to take more tax-free cash as you feel you are likely to be a taxpayer 
for life. You like the idea of having this either for capital needs or to deliver a more tax 
efficient income that can be tailored to your other income streams.
So, I think Aviva made it clear that it was basing its advice on Mr D being a taxpayer in 
retirement  and Mr D had a chance to challenge this if that wasnt correct. Nevertheless, 
even if Mr D had said he wanted to try as far as possible to be a non-taxpayer throughout his 
retirement, I dont think that wouldve caused Aviva to reach a different outcome. I dont think 
this additional want wouldve meant Aviva would conclude it was clearly in Mr Ds best 
interests to transfer, given he was already able to meet his main objectives by remaining in 
the scheme.
Other concerns
Mr D also says that Aviva failed to act in his and Mrs Ds best interests by not advising them 
to buy back missing state pension years. However, Mr D already had an IFA that helped him 
with his financial affairs and Aviva made it clear that the scope of its advice was limited to 
whether or not he should transfer out of his DB scheme. So, I dont think Aviva had agreed 
to provide Mr D or Mrs D with general pensions advice. But regardless, the evidence 
supports that Mr Ds state pension entitlement was discussed with him in the fact-finding 
stage. The notes show Mr D was told that it was a cost effective way to achieve additional 
guaranteed income, but Mr D wasnt keen on sacrificing additional capital for income.
Mr D says that he wasnt in an informed position to make that statement as Aviva didnt have 
exact figures or carry out the appropriate calculations. But as Ive said, Avivas advice was 
limited to whether Mr D should transfer his DB scheme or not, so I wouldnt have expected it to provide those. And in any event, I think Mr D was told what was being proposed was cost-
effective, so had he been interested in knowing more, I think he wouldve said so at the time. 
Mr D says that Aviva did not give proper consideration to his expectation that he and Mrs D 
were keen to downsize their residential property. Mr D said this wouldve made additional 
capital available to them through the sale of it, and this wasnt taken into account.
I can see that Aviva was aware of this, and also noted that Mr and Mrs D thought they might 
want to build their own property before doing so. The notes said if they chose to build a 
property this could cost up to £450,000 and they thought they might need this money 
available before selling their home. So, I think that this was taken into account overall. And 
while Mr D feels that transferring would put him in a better position to do this, I think he 
already had sufficient funds at his disposal to meet this objective without risking his 
guaranteed pension. And transferring the pension in order to use the funds for this purpose 
couldve actually placed Mr Ds pension more at risk, because the build couldve cost more 
than anticipated and/or Mr and Mrs D couldve had trouble selling their home, and so they 
might not have been able to recoup the funds they might spend on the project.
Summary
I appreciate that Mr D and Aviva had very different views of what was in his best interests. 
But I think its important to stress that Avivas role here wasnt simply to transact what Mr D 
wanted it to do. Its role was to advise Mr D, and in doing so it had to look beyond what Mr D 
wanted and make a determination of what it believed was in his best interests. And from 
what Ive seen, its clear that Aviva believed Mr Ds chosen path, which was to give up a 
guaranteed income in retirement, clearly wasnt in his best interests as it placed all of his 
pension funds at risk when he had no need to do so. Considering that Mr D was able to 
achieve all of his objectives by remaining in his DB scheme and the starting assumption the 
FCA said Aviva needed to make, I dont think that conclusion was unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman