DRN-4384069
The complaint
Mrs C complains that esure Services Limited (esure) mishandled her motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
For the year from early March 2023, Mrs C took out a motor insurance policy through esure 
(an insurance intermediary which arranged and administered the policy). 
On 23 March 2023, Mrs C contacted esure to enquire about changing the vehicle insured on 
the policy. 
The next day, Mrs C complained to esure. She said that, after inconclusive telephone 
conversations, it had gone ahead and changed the vehicle without her agreement. She also 
said that esure had then cancelled the policy, leaving her without insurance for her vehicle  
overnight. Mrs C said she had taken out a new policy through another provider.
By a final response dated 17 May 2023, esure apologised for its service and said it would 
credit £200.00 to the card Mrs C had used when she bought the policy.
By an email dated 19 May 2023, esure asked Mrs C to get in touch with alternative card 
details. Mrs C complained to esure that she was having difficulty in contacting esure.
In mid-June 2023, Mrs C made a further complaint to esure that it wasnt responding.
Mrs C brought her complaint to us in July 2023.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
esure had done enough for Mrs C. The investigator recommended that esure should 
increase their offer by £75.00.
Mrs C accepted the investigators opinion.
esure didnt respond to the investigators opinion.
The investigator asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service expects regulated firms to co-operate with our 
investigations. I regret to say that esure hasnt engaged with us at all about Mrs Cs  
complaint.
So we havent had access to the call recordings. Nevertheless, esures final response said 
that it had listened to the calls, and it apologised for its service. 
In the absence of evidence from esure, I accept Mrs Cs account of the facts.
Mrs C has said that esure didnt cause her a financial loss.
Mrs C has accepted the investigators opinion. And esure hasnt responded. I agree with the 
investigator that  in addition to its offer of £200.00  its fair and reasonable to direct esure 
to pay a further £75.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
So, whilst I wouldve wished to give Mrs C an explanation of why she received such service, 
I consider that its fair and reasonable to direct esure to pay Mrs C (insofar as it hasnt 
already paid her) £275.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct esure Services Limited to pay Mrs C (insofar as it hasnt already paid her) £275.00 for 
distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman