DRN-1862646
 
The complaint
Mr F believes Commsave Credit Union Limited acted irresponsibly by agreeing loans hed 
applied for. 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 19 May 2020, a copy of which is below 
and forms part of this decision. 
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr F believes Commsave Credit Union Limited acted irresponsibly by agreeing loans 
hed applied for.
what happened
Mr F has been a member of Commsave, through his employer, since 2015. Between 
January 2015 and October 2018 Mr F took out nine loans with Commsave, totalling 
£27,400. Payments for these loans were made by a direct deduction from his salary 
and have increased from £44 a week in January 2015 to £81 a week in October 2018. 
As part of the agreement, Mr F was also required to open a savings account with 
Commsave and save regularly. He did this, and his savings had increased from £0 to 
£5,000 in October 2018 when the last of the nine loans was approved.
Mr F also has a £2,000 revolving credit account with Commsave, which he maintains 
at or near the limit. This costs him £40 a week. But, between August 2015 and June 
2019, Commsave also refused Mr F an additional six loans, totalling £26,458.
Mr F says he has a gambling problem, which has caused him financial difficulties. He 
says hes taken out loans with other lenders at high interest rates as a result. And he 
admits to being selective with the information he gave Commsave when hes applied 
for loans. But he feels Commsave shouldve asked him more questions, and 
completed more checks, than they did. Because of this hes complained that 
Commsave were irresponsible when they lent him money.
Our investigator thought Commsave couldve done better. He thought theyd 
completed adequate and appropriate checks when they approved some of the loans, 
and he thought it was reasonable theyd relied upon Mr Fs overtime as this was a 
regular part of his income. But he didnt think it was reasonable theyd considered Mr 
Fs partners income when calculating affordability, as the loans were just in Mr Fs 
sole name.
He also didnt think that Commsave had taken proper account of Mr Fs outgoings. He 
said his bank statements showed a consistently low balance, use of an unarranged overdraft and returned direct debits. He also said these showed substantial gambling 
transactions and payments to lenders that hadnt been declared on loan applications.
Because of this, he didnt think Commsave shouldve approved the loan in August 
2015 or lent him any money after this date. So he recommended they refund all of the 
interest charged after August 2015 and arrange a repayment plan for the remaining 
balance.
Commsave didnt agree with the investigator. They felt theyd fully considered all of Mr 
Fs circumstances when approving each loan  he was making regular payments on 
time to all of his priority commitments, so they didnt think the gambling transactions 
indicated a significant problem. 
They also said it was important to understand the financial picture of the whole 
household. So they felt they were able to consider Mr Fs partners income when 
making a lending decision, as long as it was reasonable to assume Mr F had access 
to this income. And they thought that it was reasonable to expect the partner to be 
contributing to the household expenditure, because she had her own income.
Commsave have also said Mr F has been saving £50 a week with them for some 
significant time  more than he needed to under his agreement with them. They feel 
this shows he has disposable income over and above what he needed to meet his 
commitments. And they dont think this is the behaviour of someone in financial 
difficulties  Mr F has never told them hes having problems maintaining his payments, 
and theyd work with him to restructure his loans if he did.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where 
reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the 
lending decision was fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried 
out, I need to consider if the loan wouldve been approved if the checks had taken 
place. And I need to consider this for each and every loan.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect 
lenders to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan 
being applied for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each 
application. 
In making his complaint to us, Mr F has admitted that I would apply when I had a lot 
of overtime to make the payslips appear better than they really were. Mr F has 
provided copies of some recent payslips, which he says show he cant afford the 
loans. These show that his gross income without overtime is £444. And after 
deductions it means he picks up just £33 a week. 
But the deductions include Mr Fs payments to Commsave and other lenders. And, 
when looking at Mr Fs year to date income showing on these payslips, this shows his 
average gross weekly income is actually £564. Given this, I cant agree that £33 a 
week is reflective of what Mr F regularly picks up. Its not a true reflection of his current 
financial position now and isnt reflective of his financial position when he applied for the loans  the payslips Ive seen from the time Mr F applied for his loans show an 
average gross weekly income in excess of £700.
Ive seen copies of the loan applications Mr F made, and the household income and 
expenditure he declared each time. In each case, the monthly disposable household 
income was never less than £2,500. But I have to consider whether it was fair for 
Commsave to consider household income and expenditure on a sole named loan. I 
accept the argument that Commsave have put forward, and I think this shouldve 
formed part of their decision. But I also think they shouldve considered Mr Fs sole 
income and expenditure to ensure the loan was affordable to him.
From what Ive seen, Mr F declared that his partner had a similar income to him. And 
bank statements show Mr F transferred money to his partner on a weekly basis. I 
understand that this was his contribution to the regular household bills  
rent/mortgage, utility bills, food etc. And because Mr F has his loan contributions for 
Commsave and some other lenders deducted from his income at source, these have 
already been considered before the net income is calculated. So it wouldnt be fair to 
then consider these as expenditure as well  theyd be double counted otherwise.
Applying the above to the applications Mr F has made, Ive not seen anything to show 
me that any of the loans were unaffordable at the time they were applied for. Based on 
the lowest weekly payslip Mr F provided with each application, his disposable income 
was always more than sufficient to support the increase in weekly payments linked to 
the loan he was applying for. 
So, even though Commsave included the partners income and expenditure in their 
calculations, Im satisfied the loans were affordable to Mr F at the time he applied for 
them.
Commsave have said they carefully consider every application they receive, and their 
assessment includes looking at payslips, bank statements and the information 
provided by credit reference agencies. They additionally consider known savings and 
savings behaviour. Because he had no track record with Commsave at the time of the 
first loan, this application was assessed on the basis of the information declared and 
provided by Mr F, and his credit file. Subsequent lending decisions also considered 
how Mr F was maintaining his existing loan and his savings account.
Ive seen the credit files that Commsave considered as part of their lending decisions. 
These show Mr F had defaults, but they also show an improving situation, with a 
reducing level on indebtedness from 2016 to 2019. Its not unusual that people using 
Credit Unions have poor credit histories and cant get loans from high street lenders. 
This is the service they provide, filling the gap between traditional lenders and high 
interest lenders. So I dont see that Mr Fs credit history was a reason why Commsave 
shouldnt have lent to him.
Mr F has provided bank statements going back to 2013  two years before he applied 
for his first loan with Commsave. These statements show a substantial number of 
gambling transactions. They also show direct debits being regularly returned, because 
there wasnt enough money in the account to pay them, and payments to high interest 
lenders. But these statements werent sent to Commsave as part of any loan 
application Mr F made, so I cant say Commsave shouldnt have lent him money 
based on these - they cant be held responsible for something they werent aware of.
Mr Fs bank statements just before he applied for the first loan still show gambling 
transactions, but these were minimal compared to the earlier statements. And the bank statements Commsave wouldve seen for subsequent loans show a reducing 
number of gambling transactions over time  by 2018 theyre showing an average of 
one bet a week, usually in the region of £25, although sometimes higher.
Just because there are a number of gambling transactions, this doesnt mean that 
someone must have a gambling problem, and itd be unfair of Commsave to assume 
this was the case. These transactions form part of the picture, not the whole picture. 
For the most part, Mr F was maintaining a positive balance, making payments on time, 
and wasnt relying on his overdraft to keep his finances going. And Mr F was 
maintaining regular weekly savings with Commsave during this period, at a rate higher 
than was required.
So I dont think Commsave shouldve declined all of Mr Fs loans because he was 
spending money gambling  he could easily have been spending the same amount of 
money on other social activities, for example eating out, and this wouldnt be 
considered as any cause for concern either. Its how this social spending forms part of 
the overall picture thats important, not what specific type of spending is taking place.
Taking all of the above into account, and that Commsave have declined Mr Fs 
applications for loans on multiple occasions  the value of the approved loans and the 
value of the declined loans are almost the same; I dont agree that theyve been 
irresponsible when lending to Mr F, or that the loans werent affordable to him at the 
time he took these out.
But, if the loans are no longer affordable to Mr F, Id expect Commsave to act 
positively and sensitively to his current financial circumstances, and work with him to 
agree a repayment plan thats suitable for his needs and is sustainable.
Commsave have also offered to refund Mr F all of the interest he was charged 
between August 2015 and October 2018. Its now for Mr F to decide whether to accept 
that offer or not.
my provisional decision
For the reasons explained above I dont intend to uphold Mr Fs complaint about 
Commsave Credit Union Limited.
In summary I said that, between January 2015 and October 2018, Commsave had approved 
£27,400 in loans for Mr F. Also, between August 2015 and June 2019 theyd turned him 
down for additional loans totalling £26,458. And because Commsave required Mr F to 
regularly save with them, by October 2018 hed saved £5,000 and was saving at a higher 
rate than Commsave required.
I was satisfied Commsave had made appropriate checks every time Mr F had applied for a 
loan, and that every loan was affordable at the time it was approved. This was based on the 
information Mr F had provided to Commsave at the time of each application, and on 
additional checks, for example Mr Fs credit file, Commsave undertook.
But I didnt think it was reasonable that, for loans in Mr Fs sole name, Commsave had also 
used his partners income. But, because the loans were affordable based on Mr Fs income 
and expenditure alone, I didnt think this meant Commsave had been irresponsible.
Mr F also said he had a gambling problem, which was reflected in the bank statements he 
provided to us  although not all of these bank statements were provided to Commsave as 
part of any application he made. I didnt think the existence of the gambling problem meant that Commsave shouldve automatically not lent Mr F any money; and I didnt think it meant 
that any lending was therefore automatically irresponsible. I wouldve expected Commsave 
to consider Mr Fs spending habits as part of any overall assessment of a loan application, 
and I was satisfied they did.
So I agreed Commsave had acted reasonably when they approved Mr Fs loans. I also 
acknowledged that Mr F said he was now in financial difficulties and that Commsave said 
they were willing to work with him to come to a mutually agreeable payment arrangement. 
Commsave had offered to refund Mr F all of the interest hed been charged between August 
2015 and October 2018. I said it was now for Mr F to decide whether to accept that offer.
Both Mr F and Commsave have been given the opportunity to comment on my provisional 
decision. Commsave agreed with my provisional decision. But Mr F said his take home pay, 
without overtime, is £33 a week, and this isnt enough to cover his existing financial 
commitments. And he says he borrowed money from other lenders to put into savings, to 
support the loans he took from Commsave. He now cant access those savings because he 
has to keep a minimum balance based on the loans hes got.
Mr F has also said that he hasnt contacted Commsave about his financial difficulties, as he 
was put off doing so by what hes seen on an online forum. Hed ideally like all the interest 
frozen, which would give him the opportunity to repay the capital outstanding, and this is 
what hes been offered from other lenders.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive responded to the points raised by Mr 
F below.
Ive seen from the payslips Mr F has provided that his weekly take home pay, without 
overtime, is £33. But these payslips also show that overtime is a regular and substantial part 
of his salary. So I didnt think £33 a week was reflective of what Mr F picks up week in, week 
out. But I understand this is what Mr F picks up some weeks, and that it isnt enough to 
cover his outgoings those weeks. Which will put a strain on his finances.
But Mr Fs current financial position isnt reflective of his financial position when he took the 
loans out. So, because hes struggling now, I cant say he shouldnt have been lent any 
money between 2015 and 2019. I remain satisfied the loans were affordable at the time he 
took them out. And that affordability took into consideration the other loans Mr F had taken 
out  whether he used those loans to boost his saving or for other purposes.
I appreciate Mr Fs honesty about his financial situation. But, because payments to 
Commsave are deducted direct from his salary, they wouldnt be aware of his current 
financial situation unless he told them about it. And hes been reluctant to do this. Which I 
also understand.
I cant tell Commsave what to do about Mr Fs current financial situation, but I would expect 
them to work with him to agree a more affordable payment. Before they can do this though, 
Mr F will need to approach them about his difficulties and give them all the information they 
need so they can look at whats affordable.
So, Mr Fs comments dont change my view that Commsave acted reasonably when they 
assessed his loan applications. And it remains his choice whether to accept their offer to 
refund the interest or not.My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about Commsave Credit 
Union Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman