DRN-1249606
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) migrated his Additions Plus 
packaged bank account (PBA) to a Premier account with packs added on in January 2017 
without his consent. He also says that he didnt need the benefits that came with either the 
Tech or Travel pack, so wouldnt have wanted to make the change.
He would like the charges for the packs refunded.
What happened
Mr W held an Additions Plus PBA with Barclays from 2004. It came with a range of benefits, 
in return for a monthly fee. Some of the key ones were travel insurance; breakdown 
recovery; mobile phone insurance; gadget insurance; and banking benefits like an interest 
free overdraft. Mr W describes this account as:
great. Personal banker etcpaid a monthly fee, was happy
At the end of 2016 this PBA was costing Mr W £16 per month. At that time, Barclays decided 
to change the type of accounts it offered, and to withdraw the Additions Plus PBA. It 
effectively replaced the benefits that came with the PBA with packs, that were added to a 
standard current account. In this instance, it therefore migrated Mr Ws account to one with a 
travel pack and a tech pack. Between them, the key benefits these packs provided were 
travel insurance; breakdown recovery; mobile phone insurance; gadget insurance; and 
banking benefits like an interest free overdraft. It appears that together they cost Mr W £20 
per month.
Barclays was required to notify its customers of its change in offering, and says it wrote to Mr 
W in September 2016 to let him know what would be happening, and again in January 2017 
to confirm his account had been changed.
Having looked at all the evidence, one of our adjudicators thought that Barclays had done 
nothing wrong and didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. He disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint, and Ill explain why.
Did Barclays notify Mr W of the upcoming account changes?
Firstly, Id like to be clear that Barclays decision to withdraw the PBA and instead offer 
packs is a commercial one which it was entitled to make and not something on which I 
would comment. But it was required to notify customers, and if it made the change without 
doing so, Id be unlikely to consider that to be either fair or reasonable. It did not need 
explicit consent, as it was essentially tweaking and re-branding a product to which its 
customers had already agreed.
Barclays has sent us copies of the letters it sent, to Mr Ws correct address, in September 
2016 and January 2017. Those letters notified him of the upcoming/recent change and 
invited him to contact the bank if he didnt wish to continue with the packs. (It also sent later 
documents, such as Annual Eligibility Statements, but those arent especially relevant, given 
it is the fairness of the migration that is in question, not the speed with which Mr W may have 
realised the change had occurred.)
Mr W has offered no evidence about systematic problems with receiving mail. Barclays does 
not appear to have received any returned post from his address. In the absence of any 
evidence to the contrary, I can only reasonably conclude that Barclays did fulfil its 
requirements in notifying him about the migration. Mr W says its not fair that he is now left 
out of pocket due to mistakes made by Royal Mail. But I have no jurisdiction over any 
delivery services, and only have the power to consider the actions of Barclays.
To further evidence the fact that, had he known about the migration to the packs, he would 
not have allowed it to happen, Mr W says that he had no need of the benefits, which he had 
elsewhere. However, given that the packs broadly replicated the benefits that he already had 
with the Additions Plus PBA, which he describes as great, that doesnt persuade me that 
not opting out is because he wasnt notified. Based on his own view of the PBA, I can only 
conclude that he would have been attracted to the key benefits of the packs  albeit at a 
slightly increased price to the previous PBA.
All the available evidence points to Barclays having done what it needed to when carrying 
out this migration. It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint, and Barclays doesnt 
need to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman