DRN-3171002
The complaint
Mr T complains about poor service and about the cover provided under his home insurance 
policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.  
What happened
Mr T bought a HomeCare policy with British Gas in October 2019.
This policy provides an annual service of his boiler and central heating, plus insurance cover 
for home emergencies.
The first annual service was carried out in November 2019. By February 2021, some 15 
months or so later, Mr T still hadnt had the second annual service. 
On 8 February 2021, Mr T called British Gas because he had a problem with his boiler. They 
said they wouldnt be able to send an engineer until four weeks later. Mr T chose to get his 
own engineer and British Gas agreed to cover the cost. 
Mr T sent the invoice to British Gas on 8 February 2021. He chased them around a week 
later. When he contacted them again, on 11 March 2021, British Gas finally processed the 
invoice and the payment was later sent out to Mr T.
In the meantime, Mr T had been trying to arrange his annual service. He says he was initially 
told annual services could be up to 18 months apart. British Gas made an appointment to 
carry out the service in early April 2021.
They then cancelled that appointment and re-booked the service for late May 2021. Mr T 
says that when he pointed out that this was outside the 18 months service level hed been 
told applied, he was now told annual services could be up to two years apart.
Mr T complained to British Gas. He was unhappy about the time between annual services 
and the cancellation in April 2021. And about the service provided when he had to arrange 
his own engineer to fix the emergency in February 2021 and then chase British Gas twice for 
payment.
British Gas apologised for the inconvenience Mr T had experienced when he had to chase 
payment for the repairs carried out by his engineer. And they offered him £50  later 
increased to £80 - in compensation for his trouble and upset.
Mr T wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. He says he wants 
British Gas to refund his annual premium, given that he hasnt been provided with the 
service he paid for. And he wants adequate compensation for the stress and inconvenience 
hes experienced. 
Our investigator looked into it and thought British Gas should pay Mr T £100 in total in 
compensation for his trouble and upset, rather than the £80 they offered.
British Gas disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
Mr T has also expressed his dissatisfaction with the outcome. Our investigator said British 
Gas had done nothing wrong in terms of the annual service. Mr T thinks they did  and he 
thinks that merits more compensation than weve so far suggested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to clarify one very important thing at the outset. The HomeCare policy provided by 
British Gas has two separate elements  an annual service agreement and an insurance 
contract to cover (certain) home emergencies. 
The policy is set out in such a way as to make this absolutely clear  with the sub-sections 
dealing with the annual service agreement (amongst other things) being headed as Our 
non-insurance products. The section which deals with the emergency cover is headed Our 
insurance products.
The rules under which we operate make it clear that we can deal only with complaints about 
financial products  such as insurance. We cant look into complaints about other matters. 
And so, we cant look into complaints about service agreements, such as the one provided 
by British Gas as part of their HomeCare range of policies.
Our investigator said British Gas hadnt done anything wrong in terms of the annual service 
provision, so this makes no difference at all to the outcome of Mr Ts complaint in terms of 
the redress to be paid to Mr T. 
However, we do owe Mr T an apology, because we were never entitled to express a view 
about the annual service part of the HomeCare policy. We ought to have told Mr T that at the 
outset. Mr T may wish to raise this with the energy ombudsman to see if its something they 
will look into.
In terms of the issues we can look into  the service provided by British Gas when Mr T tried 
to use his emergency insurance cover  I agree with our investigator that £100 is fair and 
reasonable compensation for Mr Ts trouble and upset. Ill explain why.
Mr T bought a policy which he thought would provide some peace of mind in case he faced 
an emergency with his heating, water or electrics. When he contacted British Gas in exactly 
such a situation, they werent able to send an engineer within a reasonable timeframe.
Mr T got his own engineer to attend and fix the problem. British Gas paid for that - eventually 
 but Mr T was put to the trouble of finding an engineer and then having to chase British Gas 
several times to get the payment theyd promised. 
British Gas have explained that the failure to pay the invoice immediately was due to a 
systems error, although theyve not explained why the issue wasnt resolved the first time 
Mr T contacted them to point out he hadnt yet been paid.
Mr Ts emergency was fixed the same day  albeit he had to arrange for that to happen. The 
payment was made just over a month after Mr T sent the invoice. 
These arent life-changing events and the delays are relatively minor. But I can see why Mr T 
says he became frustrated, annoyed and stressed by British Gas seemingly ignoring his 
requests for the promised payment. He may quite reasonably have worried that he would 
never get the payment  or indeed any form of response at all from British Gas.It certainly wasnt the level of service Mr T had a right to expect - and that hed paid for. And 
in my view, any less than £100 compensation for that degree of trouble and upset would be 
unfair and unreasonable.
I know Mr T thinks £100 isnt enough. He say he hasnt had any use out of the policy and 
wants his premium (over £300) refunded. Im afraid I cant agree with Mr T on that point. He 
has used the policy  British Gas paid for the repairs carried out by his engineer in February 
2021. 
Hes also been covered for any other issue which might have arisen during the policy year. 
And, of course, with insurance policies, the customer pays for the cover. You cant expect a 
full refund of your premiums, even if you didnt have to make a claim at all.
Putting things right
So, in summary, I think £100 compensation for the trouble and upset suffered by Mr T is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances and thats what Im directing British Gas to pay.
To be clear, thats £100 in total, not in addition to the £80 British Gas already offered. I 
believe British Gas sent Mr T a cheque for £80. If hes cashed that cheque, they should pay 
him a further £20. If not, they should now pay the full £100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ts complaint.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay Mr T £100 in total for his trouble and upset.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman