DRN-3186042
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) closed her account and 
withheld funds while it carried out an investigation. 
What happened
Ms A opened an account with NatWest in July 2019. In November 2019 the account was 
closed without notice after a deposit of around £50,000 was made. NatWest informed Ms A 
shed need to complete a form to release the funds which she did on 12 November 2019. 
NatWest returned the funds 58 days after this in early January 2020 after she made a 
complaint. 
Ms A made a further complaint to NatWest. She said the withholding of her money had 
caused her significant distress and financial loss. She was unhappy with the amount of time 
it had taken NatWest to return her money and the time shed spent dealing with the matter. 
She was also concerned the incident had negatively impacted her credit file and ability to 
access financial services  in particular the impact of the payment reference used to return 
the funds that included an abbreviation for fraud.
NatWest upheld her complaint in part. It overturned its decision to close the account and 
confirmed it could be reopened, but it said it had been entitled to close the account and hold 
the funds for up to 60 days while it investigated things as stated on the funds release form 
Ms A completed. But, it agreed Ms A had spent too long on the phone trying to get through 
to the fraud department. It also apologised for the payment reference that alluded to fraud. It 
said this couldnt be changed but it had contacted the receiving bank to clarify its updated 
position.
NatWest paid Ms A £236.30 - £20 for the interest shed said shed missed out on while it 
held the funds, £16.30 to cover the cost of calls and £200 in recognition of the inconvenience 
caused.
Ms A brought the complaint to our service as she felt NatWest should increase its offer of 
compensation. She also complained the compensation was paid into her account using the 
same fraud payment reference number and this had caused her further worry about the 
impact on her finances.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this year explaining that:
I agreed NatWest had sufficient evidence to carry out further checks on Ms As 
account and was entitled to hold on to her money while it did this. I could also see it 
did inform her it may take up to 60 days to carry out these checks. 
But, in this particular case I didnt feel NatWest had been able to show me why it had 
held Ms As money for the 58 days it did. From what I could see it had all the 
information its ultimate decision was based on from the outset. I thought seven days 
was a reasonable amount of time for it to look into things, so I felt it couldve released 
Ms As funds 51 days sooner than it did.
Because I thought NatWest had held onto Ms As funds for longer than it should have 
I thought it had likely caused her a financial loss as shed been unable to place the 
funds in a savings account as shed intended. I said that if Ms A was able to evidence 
she had placed the funds in a savings account when they were returned to her, 
NatWest should compensate her inline with the interest rate of this account as this is 
likely what she wouldve earned had it not held on to her money for the time it did.
I had carefully considered the impact the incident had on Ms A including the stress 
and inconvenience of her money being held. And the ongoing worry she had around 
the fraud references NatWest used when the money was returned to her. But overall 
I felt the £200 already paid by NatWest was sufficient in this case.
NatWest responded to my provisional decision and said it had no further information to add. 
Ms A responded and provided evidence of when the money was placed into savings 
accounts and the rate of interest applicable. She also asked me to consider some further 
points in relation to her complaint:
She felt I should take into account the interest rate that wouldve been available at 
the time the money shouldve been returned (1.45%), not the rate of interest she 
ultimately earned.
She felt NatWest should pay further compensation for using a fraud payment 
reference when it paid her compensation for using it the first time. She feels this 
reflects NatWest has no intention of amending this process. She also feels it was 
unfair NatWest transferred compensation into her account without her consent.
Because Id said NatWest didnt carry out an investigation, it hadnt been honest in its 
communications with her and she should be compensated further for this.
She doesnt feel NatWests behavior suggests it will act differently in future and feels 
it should be held accountable.
She would like NatWest to re-open her accounts without her having to take any 
further action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about what Ms A has said in response to my provisional decision 
but considering everything afresh, Im not persuaded to change my mind. I wont repeat 
everything Ive said in my provisional decision (and have summarised above) but I would like 
to clarify my position in response to the additional points Ms A has raised.
Did NatWest carry out an investigation?
Ms A has said Ive confirmed NatWest didnt carry out any investigation into her account. 
And because of this she feels it has been misleading in its communication with her which 
has led to further distress.
To clarify, NatWest has carried out an investigation into Ms As account. And, as Ive 
outlined in my provisional decision, Im satisfied it was entitled to carry out this investigation. 
The information it has shown me, that Ive been unable to share with Ms A because of its 
sensitive nature, was sufficient to hold her money and carry out an investigation. And I think 
this investigation always wouldve taken some time. Ive said seven days wouldve been reasonable as NatWest hasnt given any information on how long it generally takes to 
conduct its investigations and hasnt explained why it took longer in this case.
The issue here is that it took longer than I think it reasonably ought to have. And, given 
NatWest didnt request any additional information as part of its investigation (because it had 
everything it needed from the outset) I think this delay was avoidable. So I think NatWest 
needs to compensate Ms A for the delay, not for the investigation itself which it was entitled 
to carry out.
Does NatWest need to pay more compensation?
Our service, and my role, is to consider the impact this complaint has had on Ms A. Our 
service doesnt regulate or police businesses. As Ive explained, Im satisfied the £200 paid 
by NatWest is fair and reasonable overall. In reaching this conclusion Ive already 
considered the impact of the reference used when the compensation was paid to Ms A. 
I understand that when NatWest made the £200 payment and then after this it again used a 
fraud reference number. So Ms A believes she should be compensated for this additional 
incident. But when Ive considered the complaint overall, Im satisfied £200 is fair considering 
everything Ms A has described.
As I explained in my provisional decision, in my experience, I think its unlikely the payment 
references used will have any impact on Ms As financial decisions in future. But Im satisfied 
NatWest has made it clear it will clarify what the payments were if any issues do arise.
And whilst I accept the compensation was paid to her account without her accepting it, I 
dont think this is unreasonable. NatWest has explained that because of the pandemic it felt 
paying the money into Ms As account was more appropriate than sending her a cheque. Ms 
A wasnt prejudiced by this payment in any way Ive seen and hasnt been prevented from 
bringing the complaint to our service. So I dont think shes been disadvantaged by it.
Ive also considered Ms As comments that NatWest should reopen her accounts without her 
needing to reapply. But, NatWest isnt asking her to reapply for her accounts as such, its 
asking her to visit a NatWest branch with identification and proof of address to satisfy its 
security processes. I understand this will be an inconvenience should Ms A choose to re-
open the accounts and I have taken this into account. But I think its reasonable NatWest 
needs to verify Ms As identity and address.
Ive also considered Ms As request to be compensated at the rate of interest she says she 
wouldve been able to earn at the time her money was frozen. But I havent seen any 
evidence the interest rate shes mentioned wouldve been available to her. So I think the 
appropriate redress in this case is for Ms A to be compensated in line with the interest rate 
applicable to her existing accounts  where she ultimately placed the funds.
  
Putting things right
The £50,000 NatWest held was returned to Ms A on 9 January 2019. I think it ought 
reasonably to have been returned to her on 19 November 2020  51 days earlier - seven 
days after shed completed the funds release form required in order to arrange its return.
Ms A has shown me evidence that she moved the funds to interest bearing savings accounts 
within two weeks of the money being returned to her. So, I think NatWest needs to pay 51 
days interest on £50,000 less the amount of time it took Ms A to move the money. I think its 
reasonable to assume it always wouldve taken her this amount of time to move the money 
into savings so she never wouldve earned interest during this time.The money was moved into two separate accounts which had different interest rates and 
part of the money was moved into each account. Ms A has shown me evidence that:
She moved £20,000 to a savings account with a rate of 1.26% on 21 January 2020 
(12 days after the money was returned)
She moved £30,000 to a savings account with a rate of 1.21% on 20 January 2020 
(11 days after the money was returned)
Based on what Ive seen, in addition to the £200 compensation paid, I think NatWest needs 
to pay:
Interest on £20,000 at a rate of 1.26% for 39 days (51 days less the 12 days it took 
Ms A to move the money)
Interest on £30,000 at a rate of 1.21% for 40 days (51 days less the 11 days it took 
Ms A to move the money)
If NatWest considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms A how much its taken off. It should also give Ms A a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks/ask for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require National Westminster Bank Plc to 
pay Ms A in line with the redress Ive outlined in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman