DRN-3193340
The complaint and background
Mrs P has complained about the overdraft charges and interest that National Westminster 
Bank Plc (NatWest) added to her account. She says that when she got in touch with 
NatWest to ask for help with stopping the charges it didnt offer her any assistance. Mrs P is 
unhappy that her account was ultimately defaulted and that the default was recorded on her 
credit file.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Ps complaint. He felt that NatWest hadnt dealt with 
Mrs P unfairly and so didnt think it needed to refund any of the charges or interest it had 
applied.
Mrs P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain the 
reasons for my decision. 
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts NatWest charged Mrs P were fair and reasonable. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. So this isnt something for me to get 
involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at NatWests charging structure per se, it wont have acted
fairly and reasonably towards Mrs P if it continued to apply any interest, fees and charges to 
her account  and didnt offer any other assistance  in circumstances where it was aware, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware, that she was experiencing financial 
difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were instances where NatWest didnt treat Mrs P 
fairly and reasonably.
I dont think that NatWest did treat Mrs P unfairly or unreasonably though. Looking at her 
account statements, I can see that until around July 2017 Mrs Ps account was well 
maintained, regularly seeing a credit balance. From July 2017 the account was overdrawn, 
but was generally operating within the arranged overdraft, and when interest and charges 
were applied which took the account over its limit Mrs P paid in funds to bring the account 
back into the arranged overdraft. But in October 2017 when charges and interest were 
applied which took the account over its arranged overdraft limit, Mrs P did not pay anything 
into the account to cover those charges, and then essentially stopped using her account. 
NatWest tried to contact Mrs P to discuss her account but didnt receive any response. So 
because Mrs P didnt get in touch or pay anything into her account, after a few months 
NatWest took action to stop any more charges from being applied to her account and 
ultimately defaulted it.  
This is the kind of action we would expect a bank to take in these circumstances, 
stepping in to take proactive action to stop the account from deteriorating further when it 
became clear that Mrs P wasnt able or willing to rectify the account herself. So I dont 
think NatWest acted unfairly or that it needs to refund to Mrs P any of the charges that it 
applied to her account. 
I appreciate that Mrs P says she contacted NatWest to ask for help, but shes said this 
was before February 2017, and at that time her account was well maintained. So even if 
there were a record of Mrs P contacting the bank at that time  and the banks notes 
dont show any record of that contact  then I dont think there is anything we would 
expect the bank to have done at that stage.
And, ultimately, given that Mrs P has said herself that she was not able to afford to repay the 
overdraft until recently, the default on her credit file is an accurate representation of her 
financial circumstances at the time that it was registered.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs P, but Im satisfied that NatWest 
hasnt treated her unfairly, and so I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman