DRN-3521412
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc will not refund three payments he made to a 
gambling company, B, which he thinks has defrauded him.
What happened
Mr C made three card payments to B so that he could trade on the outcome of the 2020 US 
Presidential election. He used Bs exchange service, which enables customers to bet against 
each other on the outcomes of certain events. Mr C s bets were that President Trump would 
be re-elected. The payments made from his account were:
on 4 November 2020, a payment of £5,000;
on 5 November 2020, a payment of £10,000; and
on 24 November 2020, a payment of £5,000.
Mr C says that the third payment was made by his wife, but I dont believe that makes any 
difference to his complaint. He has said too that she made further payments to B until 10 
December 2020, but, as those payments were made from her account, that is not something 
I can consider in the context of his complaint.
Voting in the election took place on 3 November 2020, although the deadlines for postal 
votes closed before that date in some states and after that date in others. 
By 7 November 2020 most of the major US news networks had called the result for Joe 
Biden. Usually, that would be sufficient for other candidates to concede defeat, putting the 
outcome beyond doubt, but the 2020 election was anything but usual; President Trump did 
not accept the result on 7 November 2020 and has not done so since.
In addition, there is no immediate official declaration of the winner of a US Presidential 
election. Rather, a number of steps must be taken following the casting of votes. The 
significant steps following the 2020 election were:
3 November 2020  election day;
7 November 2020  major networks report that Joe Biden has won;
14 December 2020  members of the Electoral College meet in state capitals and 
formally vote for the President;
6 and 7 January 2021  Congress votes to confirm the election of President Biden;
20 January 2021  inauguration of President Biden.
Because President Trump did not concede defeat in the usual way on or shortly after 7 
November 2020, but instead made a number of legal and other challenges, the outcome of 
the election remained in doubt for some weeks. In recognition of this, B kept its exchange 
market open.
On 22 November 2020 Mr C contacted B to check when the market would be closed. He 
asked if that would be when there was confirmation of who would be sworn in as President 
on 20 January 2021. B relied in an online chat Correct  when the president is confirmed.
On 27 November 2020 B published the following statement on its website:
We have not settled certain markets on the [exchange] relating to the U.S. election because 
of the uncertainty about the outcome of the results caused by ongoing recounts and potential 
legal challenges.
Given our responsibility to both backers and layers to ensure that the markets are settled 
correctly and given the unprecedented amount of money that has been traded on these 
markets, we have sought advice from leading U.S. lawyers to determine the appropriate time 
to settle the markets.
We currently anticipate that we will wait until the outcome of the Electoral College votes on 
14 December 2020 is known before we settle the markets. This, of course, assumes that 
there is no conclusive outcome before this date.
Mr C checked the position again on 1 December 2020, when he asked  so you will not 
pay out after college votes announced. It will be the person inaugurated on the 20th thats 
declared the winner. Am I right? He received the answer Yes.
Mr C contacted B twice on 14 December 2020, the day on which the states formally 
instructed Electoral College members to vote to approve the election of President Biden. 
Both contacts appear to have been before those votes took place.
At 9.31am Mr B was told:  The markets will remain open for trading until we can settle on 
certainty. There are electoral events that are still to take place within the coming month 
before there is certainty on the matter.
In an exchange later the same afternoon Mr C was told:  the market will not be settled 
until the President is officially in Office 
In the event, B closed the market on 14 December 2020, when the composition of the 
Electoral College had been confirmed. Further speculative legal challenges were made after 
that, and there remained some doubt whether legislators would object to the count of the 
Electoral College ballots on 6 January 2021 (as in fact a small number did).
Mr C said that he had been led to believe that B would keep the market open beyond 14 
December 2020 and possibly up to and including 20 January 2021, the date of the 
inauguration. He said that, in closing the market when it did  despite assurances that it 
would be kept open  B had acted fraudulently. He also said that he had not been told about 
loss limits when he placed his bets.
Mr C complained to B. It did not accept that it had done anything wrong and referred Mr C to 
the Independent Betting Adjudication Service (IBAS). Mr B complained to HSBC that the 
three payments had been made as the result of fraud. He said they should therefore be 
refunded. HSBC said that it was unable to assist as Mr C had not provided any proof that he 
was misled at the time the payments were made.
Mr C referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She did not believe however that there was any basis on which HSBC could be 
held liable for any losses Mr C had suffered. Mr C did not accept the investigators 
assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.My provisional decision
Although I was minded to agree with the investigators overall conclusions, I issued a 
provisional decision  so that Mr C could provide clarification about some matters and make 
further arguments if he wanted to do so. In my provisional decision, I said:
The three card payments that were made from Mr Cs account are not disputed. They were 
paid to his account with B so that he could trade on the outcome of the election, and he used 
the funds for that purpose.
Mr C says however that he was led to believe that the particular market on which he placed 
those bets would remain open for longer than was the case. I can see that some of the 
messages he received from B were potentially misleading. The second message of 14 
December 2020 in particular gave the impression that the market would not close until after 
the President was in office  which I would take to mean the date of the inauguration.
I am not persuaded however that Mr C was misled about the date on which the market 
would close before he made the payments or placed any bets. B was always clear that the 
market would close when there was certainty about the outcome of the election. And there 
was no way of knowing when Mr C made the payments when that certainty might come 
about. In saying that, I note that all the payments were made after the day of the election, 
when it was widely suspected that President Trump might seek to challenge anything that 
was not in his favour.
If  as Mr C alleges  B provided misleading information, it does not appear to me that it did 
so until after he had made the payments. I have seen no evidence that he made those 
payment or placed any bets in reliance on any statement that the market would remain open 
after 14 December 2020. It was always possible that the outcome of the election would be 
certain before that date. For that reason, I do not believe there is any basis on which I can 
fairly say that HSBCs response to his claim was unreasonable.
When Mr C referred his complaint to this service, he said that the result of the election had 
been expected to be known by mid-November. He did not place his bets on the 
understanding that the market would remain open for two months or more after that.
I do note that the final payment was made on 24 November 2020, two days after Mr C had 
been told that the markets would be closed when the President was confirmed. I do not 
believe however that confirmation meant the same as inauguration. It meant the point at 
which it was known who would be sworn in as President. That could have been any point up 
to and including the date of the inauguration.
In addition, I do not believe that Mr C has shown how, it the market had remained open 
beyond 14 December 2020, his position would have been any different. His bets were 
placed before that and before he had received any assurances about when the market was 
likely to close. Any losses he suffered had crystalised by that point, and he has not explained 
how he could have improved his position after that.
Finally, it seems to me that Mr Cs primary complaint is about what B told him and what it did 
after he had placed his bets on the market. It is not about the payments he made to enable 
him to do that. So, even if I were to take a different view about HSBCs actions, I might well 
conclude that the underlying dispute would be best resolved through IBAS. If IBAS were to 
find in Mr Cs favour, there would be no dispute with HSBC; if it were to make a finding in 
favour of B, it is unlikely that I would conclude that HSBC had treated Mr C unfairly.
Mr Cs response to my provisional decisionMr C did not accept my provisional decision and made lengthy and detailed further 
submissions. I do not need to set out in detail Mr Cs further arguments, but I have 
considered them carefully. Those submissions were largely concerned with the actions of B 
and why, in Mr Cs opinion, the market should have remained open until the presidential 
inauguration. 
Mr Cs further submissions included the following information however:
Any uncertainty about the eventual outcome of the election influenced the exchange 
market. 
Mr C could have cashed out his bets at any point until the market was closed. The price 
at which he could do so varied depending on the position taken by other customers of B 
who were in the market.
When B indicated on 14 December 2020 that the market would remain open, it was 
moving in favour of people who had placed bets on President Trump to win. 
Bs statements about when the market would close did not cause Mr C to place any 
more bets, but they did influence his decision not to cash in those that he had placed. 
As he result, he suffered a financial loss. 
IBAS had considered the matter but had found in favour of B. 
I am grateful to Mr C for his clarification of the position and of his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have indicated, Mr Cs additional submissions are largely concerned with the actions of 
B after he had placed his bets and, crucially, after he had instructed HSBC to make the 
payments to B. My role however is to determine Mr Cs complaint about the bank, not to 
adjudicate on his dispute with B. Indeed, it appears that IBAS has already done that.
Mr Cs primary complaint about B is that it said the market would remain open until the 
outcome of the election was certain, and that it was not certain when it closed the market. It 
is not for me to say whether B was within its rights to conclude that the outcome was certain 
after the Electoral College votes on 14 December 2020. I simply observe that B closed the 
market on the basis that President Biden had won the election and that he was duly 
inaugurated on 20 January 2021. None of the legal challenges to which Mr C has referred 
was successful  in the sense that they did not prevent Joe Biden from becoming President. 
I do however accept that, if the market had remained open, it is possible that Mr Cs position 
would have been better. In saying that, I have in mind that movements in the market do not 
depend on the probability of a certain outcome; they depend on the position taken by other 
participants. In short, the more people in the market who believed, however mistakenly, that 
President Trumps challenges would succeed, the better Mr Cs position would be. 
I do not believe however that Mr Cs further explanation makes any difference to my 
conclusions about his complaint about HSBC. In summary, he says that Bs reassurances 
led him to decide to leave his money in the market. They did not however lead him to make 
the payments in the first place. He made the payments on the basis that the market would 
remain open until the outcome of the election was certain. That date was not known at the 
time Mr C made the payments. As I indicated in my provisional decision, a finding by IBAS in favour of B would make it 
unlikely that I would find that HSBC had acted unfairly. IBAS did find in favour of B, and so I 
do not believe that the bank did treat Mr C unfairly.             
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require HSBC UK Bank Plc to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman