DRN-2780739
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) hasnt refunded 
the premium they paid for a single trip travel insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs Bs son is representing them on this complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. The 
policy was purchased on 15 January 2020, to cover a holiday from 30 May 2020 until
6 June 2020.
They paid £430.17 for the standard level of travel insurance cover, which also
covered them for declared medical conditions. Mr and Mrs B also paid an additional 
premium of £19.98 for optional travel disruption extension cover. The premium Mr and Mrs B 
paid for their travel insurance policy, including the additional cover options, included a 
discount of £20.16.
On 26 May 2020, their holiday had been cancelled. On the same day, Mr and Mrs B 
contacted the broker to cancel their travel insurance policy.
Great Lakes said that because the policy was cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off 
period, no monetary refund was available. However, they were willing to offer a pro rata 
refund in the form of a voucher for £15.37. This was calculated from the date the holiday was 
cancelled on 26 May 2020. When it issued its final response, Great Lakes didnt include the 
premium Mr and Mrs B paid for their optional travel disruption extension within its 
calculations.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs B complained to Great Lakes and then brought their complaint to
our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in 
part. She thought it was fair for Great Lakes to offer a pro-rata voucher but she noted that 
Great Lakes hadnt included the additional premium paid for the optional travel disruption 
extension within its calculations. The investigator thought the refund should be calculated 
from the date Mr and Mrs Bs holiday was cancelled and that it should include a 
proportionate refund of the additional premium paid for travel disruption cover.
Great Lakes accepted the investigators findings and recalculated the pro-rata voucher. So
the investigator said she was satisfied that Great Lakes had offered Mr and Mrs B a fair 
resolution even though there was no requirement for them to be given one. Mr and Mrs B 
didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, the complaint 
has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mr and Mrs B held have a cooling off period of 
14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is 
called the right to cancel. 
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained. 
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk). 
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt cancel their travel insurance policy within 14 days. And, under industry 
rules, even if they had cancelled the policy within 14 days, they wouldnt be entitled to a full 
refund of the premium paid. This is because Great Lakes covered the risk of them cancelling 
the upcoming trip for reasons that were covered under the policy during that time. 
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs insurance policy with Great Lakes outline their 
cancellation rights under the contract. These apply to both the basic policy and to any 
additional cover options purchased and say:
[You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or
receipt of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any
premium you have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or
have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs Bs cancellation rights under the contract of insurance are more favourable to 
them than is required by industry rules. But Mr and Mrs Bs policy was purchased on 15 
January 2020 and cancelled on 26 May 2020. This was more than 14 days after they bought 
the policy.The policy terms and conditions give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a 
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional 
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the 
individual policyholder such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical 
conditions. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider 
the Covid-19 global pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I dont think this type of 
situation, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term 
relating to discretion is intended to cover. 
This means I dont think Mr and Mrs B are entitled to any refund of premiums under the 
terms and conditions of the contract with Great Lakes.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Bs planned trip  and therefore the need for this single trip 
insurance policy  changed due to circumstances outside of their control. So, Ive thought 
about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry 
rules and the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs contract because of the exceptional 
and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. 
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Bs contract with Great Lakes to 
be performed  cover under the policy started on 15 January 2020. 
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Bs contract with Great Lakes to 
be performed  cover under the policy started on 15 January 2020 and continued until the 
policy cancelled. 
Mr and Mrs B werent just insured for the dates of travel. The price set by Great Lakes also 
covered Mr and Mrs B for cancellation cover from the policy start date of 15 January 2020. 
So, the premium they paid covered the risk of them having to cancel their holiday due to any 
of a number of listed events insured under the policy. That included, for example, Mr and 
Mrs B falling ill with one of their declared pre-existing medical conditions. 
Great Lakes was covering the risk of Mr and Mrs B making a successful claim under the 
basic policy and the optional travel disruption extension cover from 15 January 2020 until 
their holiday was cancelled on 26 May 2020. 
Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the 
risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, 
regardless of what Mr and Mrs Bs cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to 
retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. 
However, after 26 May 2020 due to Covid-19, Great Lakes didnt bear any risk under 
Mr and Mrs Bs single trip travel insurance policy. The holiday had already been cancelled 
due to Covid-19 and Great Lakes hasnt paid a claim in relation to this. Great Lakes was 
therefore no longer carrying the risk of the holiday being cancelled for any other insured 
reason. And, as the holiday was no longer going ahead, Great Lakes was also no longer 
carrying the risk of any claim being made while Mr and Mrs B were travelling abroad.   Based on the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 
pandemic, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs B 
with a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for their single trip travel insurance policy 
from 26 May 2020. 
I think this pro-rata refund should also include the premium Mr and Mrs B paid for their 
optional travel disruption extension cover. Travel disruption extension cover includes 
extended cancellation benefits as well as extended curtailment, travel delay and enforced 
stay benefits. But Great Lakes was no longer covering the risk of a claim under the optional 
travel disruption extension cover from the date the holiday was cancelled. Great Lakes 
accepted the investigators findings and therefore will recalculate the value of the voucher to 
reflect this. 
How the refund should be paid 
In considering whether I think Great Lakes should make a pro-rata refund of Mr and Mrs Bs 
premiums by way of a voucher or by way of a monetary refund, Ive thought about what 
would be fair and reasonable to both parties.
While I understand Mr and Mrs Bs reasons for doing so, it was their decision to cancel the 
insurance policy. Mr and Mrs B entered into a contract with Great Lakes, paying a premium 
in return for Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim occurring under the policy. 
Paying a refund by way of a voucher means the risk Great Lakes agreed to accept is moved 
to a future date.    
Overall, I dont think I can fairly say Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund to 
Mr and Mrs B. I think a voucher, subject to the restrictions and limitations attached to that 
voucher being reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances. 
The voucher which Great Lakes has offered is valid for 36 months and is fully transferrable, 
so it can be used by either Mr and Mrs B or by a third party. The voucher can be used to buy 
a future travel insurance policy  either annual or single trip. 
I understand why Mr and Mrs B may not wish to use a voucher given because of their age 
and not wishing to travel abroad now. However, I dont think the terms of Great Lakes 
voucher are unreasonably restrictive, so I think the voucher is a fair offer in the 
circumstances. 
I also acknowledge Mr and Mrs B want a full refund of the premium. However Ive explained 
above why this isnt fair in the circumstances.
The calculation of the voucher 
Great Lakes doesnt break the premium for the basic policy or the additional cover options 
down into pre-travel cancellation and post-departure cover. Instead, the premium charged is 
split equally across the whole period of cover. 
An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges taking 
into account factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood 
of claims arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly.
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating 
the premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the 
incidence of risk across the life of its single trip travel insurance policies. And Im satisfied that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly or any differently to other customers in 
similar circumstances. 
The premium they paid for this policy was for a period of approximately 144 days from 
15 January 2020 to 6 June 2020 So, any pro-rata refund should equate to the premiums 
equivalent to 12 unused days of cover from 26 May 2020 until the original end date of the 
insurance policy on 6 June 2020.
This reflects the fact that Great Lakes wasnt covering any further risk under the policy from 
the date the holiday was cancelled.
Overall, Great Lakes has agreed to a pro-rata refund of the base premium and the additional 
premium. So Im now satisfied that Great Lakes updated offer is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in part against Great 
Lakes Insurance SE and direct them to put things right by paying a pro-rata refund of the 
base premium and the additional cover option from the date the holiday was cancelled.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman