DRN-4116254
The complaint
Mr P complains that Click2protect UK Limited charged him a cancellation fee when he 
cancelled his minor cosmetic repairs motor insurance policy after two days. He wants the fee 
refunded.
What happened
Mr P applied online for a minor cosmetic repairs policy from Click2protect. Two days later, 
he rang to cancel the policy. But Click2protect said it would apply a £15 cancellation fee. It 
said Mr P had agreed to this when he bought the policy online. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
policys fees and charges had been made clear in the online journey that Mr P completed 
when he bought his policy. She thought they were also made clear in Click2protects Terms 
of Business. So she didnt think it was unfair for Click2protect to apply the £15 charge. 
Mr P replied that he hadnt been presented with or accepted Click2protects terms and 
conditions on his online journey. He said he hadnt seen the charges online. Mr P asked for 
an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr P is adamant that he wasnt made aware of the cancellation charge when 
he bought his policy online. On the contrary, he said the policy documents said he could 
cancel within 30 days and receive a full refund. But Click2protect said a £15 cancellation 
charge would be applied when he cancelled within 24 hours. I can understand that Mr P 
must have felt frustrated by this. 
Click2protect has a responsibility to provide clear, fair and non-misleading information about 
products it sells to consumers. So Ive looked at the evidence provided by Click2protect of 
the sales journey Mr P completed when he bought his policy. 
I can see that during his online journey from quotation to purchase Click2protect provided 
seven separate opportunities for Mr P to read the policy documentation before purchase. He 
had to read and click that he agreed with the pop-ups displayed. In two of those 
opportunities, Mr P would have to click a button to confirm that he had read the documents, 
including Click2protects Terms of Business, and that he agreed to them. I can see that it 
isnt possible to complete a purchase without agreeing to those statements.
The first of these pop-ups sets out the cancellation charges. This includes a £15 charge for 
cancellation within the cooling off period after the policy has started. The Terms of Business 
explain that this fee is for setting up, cancelling the policy and refunding the consumer. I 
cant say what charges Click2protect should apply as this is its commercial decision. But I 
think £15 for cancellation during the cooling off period isnt unusual and I think its 
reasonable for the costs it has incurred. 
So Im satisfied that Click2protect made Mr P aware during his online journey that it would 
apply a £15 charge for cancellation during the cooling off period. This charge was also 
clearly explained in its Terms of Business which Mr P had to say that he had read and 
agreed before he bought his policy. I can see that Mr P cancelled after the policy started. 
And so Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable and in keeping with its Terms of Business 
for Click2protect to apply the fee. I dont require it to refund this fee. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman