DRN-4299558
The complaint
Mr G complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement from Toyota 
Financial Services (UK) PLC (Toyota) was not of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In June 2022 Mr G entered into a hire purchase agreement to acquire a used vehicle from 
Toyota on a five year agreement. He complained to the supplying dealership soon after 
getting the car, as it seemed the hybrid unit wasnt working, and the vehicle was running on 
petrol only. Toyota have confirmed this was repaired at that time. Mr G has also told us there 
was some damage to a wing mirror at some point. 
Then in 2023, Mr Gs car was vandalised, and the catalytic convertor was stolen. At some 
point after this, Mr G complained to Toyota about the quality of the car and sold it back to the 
dealership. He has told us that sale was at a large loss of value which was also unfair. 
Toyota looked into his complaint and responded in May 2023 with their final response letter 
(FRL). They did not uphold it. They said the hybrid unit issues had been repaired at the time, 
and they had seen no evidence of any ongoing issues with this. They confirmed that Mr G 
had chosen to sell the vehicle back to the dealership without getting the catalytic convertor 
replaced or the damage repaired, which may well have reduced the value of the car, but hed 
done this having been advised to get it fixed first and having had many discussions about his 
options with the dealership. 
Mr G brought his complaint to our service shortly after this, and the investigator here did not 
uphold the complaint. They explained that the hybrid unit had been repaired in 2022 at no 
charge to Mr G, so this fault had been repaired, which is a suitable remedy under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). 
They also explained that Mr G had said there should have been a hybrid unit certificate 
supplied with the car to show it was checked and working, and this meant the car had been 
misrepresented to him. The investigator explained that they hadnt seen any evidence of this 
being misrepresented to Mr G, and he would have been expected to check the documents 
he got with the car to raise any concerns at the point of sale. 
Finally, they said Mr G also raised concerns around not being provided with a courtesy car 
after his car was damaged in the catalytic convertor theft. The investigator didnt feel this 
was something Toyota would be expected to provide. Toyota had also explained in their FRL 
that if a courtesy car was to be supplied, it would have been Mr Gs car insurance company 
responsible for this, as the car had been damaged in the catalytic convertor theft, and this 
wasnt their responsibility, and didnt involve the quality of the goods they had supplied. 
Mr G disagreed with the investigator view and asked for a final decision. He said the car was 
not of satisfactory quality as per the CRA, because the hybrid unit was faulty. He also said 
that the insurance company had paid the dealership for the repairs to be carried out after the 
catalytic convertor theft, and the depreciation in value he suffered wasnt fair. So, the case 
has been passed to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr G was supplied with a vehicle under a 
hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it.
The complaint here has been complicated by circumstances. The fact the vehicle had the 
Catalytic convertor stolen and was damaged is not part of the complaint about the quality of 
the vehicle when supplied. That has just led to Mr G deciding to sell the car back to the 
dealership. The price Mr G achieved for the car, and his complaint about it being under 
valued is also not part of the complaint about the satisfactory quality of the vehicle. Whatever 
price Mr G chose to either pay for the car when he acquired it or chose to sell the car back to 
the dealership for, are not relevant to a complaint about the satisfactory quality of the car. 
They also arent something for Toyota to answer here, or for our service to comment upon. 
These are personal decisions made by Mr G, and I wont be commenting further other than 
to say I wont be upholding these concerns, as they were simply his choices as to what to 
pay for the car, and what to sell the car for. Toyota have made no error here or been 
involved in those choices.
I will focus on the quality of the car he was supplied, and Mr Gs concerns with that. He has 
quoted the CRA here, and this is central to my decision on the car, and whether it was of 
satisfactory quality.  
Both parties have agreed that when the car was supplied in June 2022, there was a fault 
with the hybrid unit. Mr G took the car back to the dealership, and they repaired the unit. Mr 
G says he didnt ask them to repair it but had asked for the car to be exchanged. Ive seen 
no evidence to corroborate this, so have gone on to think about how likely this was. 
If Mr G had only wanted the car replacing, and didnt want a repair, Im unsure why he would 
have driven the car away after the repairs without complaining. Ive seen no complaint 
evidence until after the catalytic convertor theft the following year. Overall, Im persuaded 
that the balance of probability is that even if it wasnt his first choice, Mr G accepted the 
repair carried out by the dealership. 
Repairing the car is one of the remedies available under the CRA to the parties when an 
issue is discovered with the quality of the car. The CRA does not say that a car must be 
replaced in these circumstances. I dont have the full details of the repairs carried out but 
repairing a hybrid unit feels like a fair option to remedy the situation. The vehicle worked fine 
and was able to be driven, but clearly having expected a hybrid car and the benefits that 
come with it, its fair to repair the car if that hybrid isnt working. Theres been no evidence 
presented about any time without the vehicle or further problems caused, and no evidence of 
Mr G complaining about having the car returned following repairs until the following year 
when his catalytic convertor has been stolen and the car damaged. 
Mr G has also complained that he was misled, because the car should have come with a hybrid battery certificate when he acquired the car. The evidence hes provided shows an 
advert for the car which says there would be a hybrid health check, but there is no mention 
of a certificate. Ive seen no mention in the documents from the sale discussing a certificate, 
and Mr G accepted the car and its documents without this certificate. 
For a misrepresentation to have occurred, Mr G would need to have been told something 
wrong and also hed need to have relied upon that wrong information to persuade him to buy 
the car. Ive seen no evidence Mr G was told the car would come with this certificate, or 
asked if the car came with the certificate, and when he didnt receive this certificate, Ive also 
seen no evidence of him raising that at the time. As such, I cant agree that the agreement 
was misrepresented to him. 
Mr G has also mentioned concerns about some damage to a wing mirror, but as a cosmetic 
issue, he had the opportunity to examine this before acquiring the car. Toyota have said it 
was scheduled to be repaired free of charge at his next service, which seems more than fair. 
This is not an issue which made the car of unsatisfactory quality. 
I appreciate it would have been frustrating to get the car and then find it had a problem with 
the hybrid battery unit, but when he raised his concerns, the dealership appears to have 
investigated, identified the problem, and repaired it. Ive seen no evidence of any further 
problems with the hybrid unit, so I am satisfied that whilst the hybrid was faulty when 
supplied, the issue was repaired suitably. This meets the requirements of the CRA, so I am 
satisfied that Mr G was treated fairly here. 
I was really sorry to hear about the catalytic convertor theft Mr G suffered in 2023, and the 
damage to his car. But as Toyota said in their FRL, this is an issue between Mr G and his 
insurance company, and not something related to the satisfactory quality of the vehicle as 
supplied by Toyota. 
I think Mr G has expressed some concerns about how he could have prevented this theft, 
but Im satisfied that this kind of theft is not something thats a particular issue with this 
vehicle and is unfortunately an industry wide problem which all vehicle manufacturers are 
trying to deal with currently. As such, I am satisfied that this theft doesnt impact on the 
satisfactory quality of the car. 
Overall, whilst I agree that the car was supplied with a faulty hybrid unit, I am not persuaded 
that the fault made it of unsatisfactory quality and that it should have been rejected or 
replaced. I am satisfied from the evidence supplied shows it was fairly repaired at the time, 
and as such, I wont be asking Toyota to do anything further. 
In their FRL, whilst they didnt uphold the complaint, Toyota offered Mr G a goodwill gesture 
of three monthly payments totalling £299.28 in recognition of the issues he had faced. Mr G 
told us he believes this is an indication that they had done things wrongly here or the car 
quality wasnt satisfactory, but I dont agree, and I am satisfied Toyota have treated him 
fairly. Mr G may wish to contact Toyota to see if this goodwill gesture is still available.     
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Paul CroninOmbudsman