DRN-1465209
The complaint
Ms F complains that Allianz Insurance Plc declined her pet insurance claim, added 
exclusions to her policy and gave poor service. My references to Allianz include its agents.
What happened
Ms F had pet insurance for her dog insured by Allianz. The policy covered an illness or injury 
for 12 months or up to the £3,000 condition limit, whichever was reached first. Ms F had the 
policy for several years, renewing each year.
In November 2018 Ms Fs dog had vet treatment for his right hind leg cruciate ligament 
injury and repair and she made a claim.
Allianz declined the claim. It said the dogs vet records showed hed been treated for left hind 
limb lameness on 10 August 2017 and it was suspected cruciate ligament injury. That meant 
the dog was covered for the condition from the first treatment date of 10 August 2017 and 
the claim for the 2018 cruciate ligament injury on the right limb was outside the 12 months 
cover for the condition.
Allianz added specific exclusions on the policy excluding claims resulting from or connected 
to cruciate ligament damage - both hind limbs and arthritis/DJD (degenerative joint disease) 
of the stifle joints from 10 August 2018. Allianz said its underwriting guidance was that for 
cruciate ligament injury and illness claims for both hind limbs were excluded. 
Ms F complained to us. In brief she said:
a number of things were suspected as possible causes for her dogs limp in 2017 but 
there was no investigation or diagnosis, it got better with rest and time.
Allianz hadnt told her it had added an exclusion to her policy or that she needed to 
tell it about an incident even if there was no diagnosis, treatment or claim
Allianz wouldnt send its underwriting criteria to her and ignored her dog's vet 
evidence which supported her claim
Allianz hadnt addressed all the points she and her friend made to it on her behalf. 
Shed had to correspond with different people at Allianz, given consent on a number 
of occasions for Allianz to contact her friend and had to resend emails
the policy premiums shed paid over the years were more than the vet costs claimed
Allianz had now sent the next policy renewal document with a premium increase and 
several exclusions connected to other medical issues referred to in her dogs vet 
notes (which she named) which she didnt think was fair.
Ms F wants Allianz to:
pay the claim and interest or compensation as she had to pay the vet costs in 
instalments which meant she had to postpone some personal plans
remove at least some of the added policy exclusions particularly for those medical 
conditions not claimed for
provide clearer information for people when taking out and renewing the policy; 
provide support for people through the complaint processes and not have different 
people handling a complaint.
Our investigator thought Allianz acted fairly in declining the claim and adding the exclusions 
in relation to cruciate ligament damage to both hind limbs. He explained that Ms F would first 
need to complain to Allianz about the exclusions for other medical conditions before we 
could look at the issue.  
Ms F disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said it wasnt fair that Allianz 
could place an exclusion on the basis of a suspected injury and a healthy leg shouldnt be 
excluded. She said her vet confirmed that the force being exerted on acceleration by her 
dogs breed could be enough trauma to cause the injury and her dog was running on sand at 
the time of the 2018 injury which he didnt usually do.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator correctly explained why we cant consider Ms Fs complaint about Allianz 
adding exclusions for non-related cruciate ligament damage medical conditions as part of 
this complaint. 
My decision is about whether Allianz fairly and reasonably declined the claim and added the 
cruciate ligament damage related exclusions, and I think it did. I also think Allianz gave Ms F 
reasonable service. Ms F has detailed how shed like Allianz to change its complaint process 
for consumers in the future. But were not a regulator and I dont have statutory powers to tell 
a business how it must change its business process, even if I thought it should.
I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy documents clearly highlight that an illness or injury is only covered for 12 months 
starting from the date Ms Fs dog first received treatment for the illness/injury.
The dogs vet notes from 10 August 2017 say hed been limping on his left hind leg for a few 
weeks and it was worse after exercise, happening at end of walk. The vet notes of 
5 September and 3 October 2017 say the vets who saw the dog suspected cruciate ligament 
injury. The vet advised Ms F to reduce her dogs exercise to try to manage the problem 
conservatively otherwise her dog may need cruciate ligament surgery. The lameness 
continued for about two months and got better following rest. 
Although there was no formal diagnosis of the dogs cause of lameness in 2017 I think  
Allianz reasonably understood from the vet evidence at the time that it was more likely than 
not the dog had a cruciate ligament injury and was first treated for the condition on 
10 August 2017. 
As the policy covers a condition for 12 months Allianz could fairly say it would only cover 
cruciate ligament problems until 10 August 2018, subject to policy limits. Allianz could fairly add an exclusion to the policy to reflect the time limited cover for the condition. 
Ms F queries whether Allianz could fairly add an exclusion for both legs. Ive seen Allianzs 
underwriting criteria. Allianz reasonably didnt send the criteria to Ms F as its commercially 
sensitive information. Im satisfied that the cruciate ligament damage and arthritis/DJD of the 
stifle joints exclusions Allianz added were line with its underwriting criteria. Its for Allianz to 
decide what risks it wants to insure so I cant tell it to change its criteria. It may help Ms F to 
know that many insurers, as well as Allianz, exclude claims for cruciate ligament damage for 
both legs where there has been cruciate ligament damage on one leg because of the 
associated risks .
The dogs vet notes from November 2018 show the dog had right hand lameness after 
playing on the beach. Ms Fs told us he was running on sand and the vet notes say he 
yelped and then went lame. The dog was subsequently diagnosed with cruciate ligament 
damage. The treatment he had for the condition in November 2018 was outside the 12 
months cover period for the condition.
If there was vet evidence that the two incidences of lameness were unrelated then I may 
have said Allianz couldnt fairly rely on the exclusion to decline the disputed claim. 
Ms Fs dogs vet told Allianz that in his opinion the dogs issues were traumatic in origin 
rather than the dog having a predisposition to the condition. But Allianz has said theres no 
evidence of a traumatic event with enough force to rupture a healthy ligament, and I think 
thats correct.
Ive seen Ms Fs dogs vet letter in response which says we dont know the biomechanical 
forces which the dogs joints were subject to when he injured his right stifle. The vet also 
said the dogs breed isnt usually listed in literature about genetic predisposition to cruciate 
ligament problems but is more likely to be mentioned with references to traumatic injuries. 
But the issue isnt about the dogs genetic predisposition to the condition. The issue is 
whether the two injuries were in any way related. Ms Fs dogs vet doesnt say the force 
being exerted on acceleration by her dog caused the 2018 injury to an otherwise healthy 
ligament. Also, when the vet completed the claim form for the 2018 treatment he answered 
yes to the questions any similar or related illness or injury? and any similar or related 
similar clinical signs? and referred to the left stifle injury in August 2017. That evidence 
suggests the incidences were related.
Overall theres not enough evidence to show the two incidences of cruciate ligament 
damage were unrelated in Ms Fs dog. So I think Allianz could fairly rely on the cruciate 
ligament damage exclusion to decline the claim.
Ms F says Allianz didnt tell her about the exclusion. But Allianz didnt know about her dogs 
vet history until she made the claim for the November 2018 treatment. The May 2018 policy 
renewal document is clear that Ms F must tell Allianz if her dog has:
Shown signs of Illness or Injury or been unwell, this is regardless of whether or not 
your pet was seen by a vet for the problem
Been seen by a vet for any reason other than routine vaccinations and neutering
We need to know about anything your pet has been seen by the vet for and any 
issues you have discussed with the vet regarding your pet's health, even if the vet 
didn't feel there was anything to be concerned about at the time or the problem 
resolved quickly.So Allianz was clear about what information it wanted from Ms F at policy renewal which 
wasnt only for matters that had been diagnosed, treated or claimed. The document is also 
clear that failure to tell Allianz may affect cover and mean a claim isnt paid.
If Ms F had contacted Allianz at the May 2018 policy renewal and told it about her dogs 
lameness in 2017, as I think she should have reasonably done, Allianz would have sought 
more information. It would have been able to tell Ms F it would be adding the exclusion 
relating to cruciate ligament damage before she renewed the policy. As Ms F didnt tell 
Allianz it couldnt add the exclusion any sooner than it did. Ive explained why it could date 
the exclusion from August 2018.
Im satisfied that Allianz fairly and reasonably declined the claim. I note Ms F says shes paid 
more in premiums than the costs she claimed but that doesnt mean Allianz has to pay the 
claim.
Ive read Ms Fs detailed points about Allianzs service and her chronology. Under the 
relevant Financial Conduct Authority rules a business should respond to a consumers 
complaint within 8 weeks and Allianz did so. Allianzs final response letter is dated the date it 
told Ms F it would respond by. Its letter reasonably concentrated on the reasons why it had 
declined the claim. Allianz acted reasonably in not responding to a third partys queries 
without Ms Fs authority. If Ms F did have to her authority more than once I understand that 
would have been annoying but overall I think the service Allianz gave to Ms F was 
reasonable. Theres no basis for me to say Allianz has to pay any compensation to Ms F.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman