DRN-1489488
The complaint
Mr Ts complaint is that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt uphold his claim under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit act 1974 (s. 75) after he missed a connecting flight that he had paid for 
using his Barclays credit card.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr T made a s. 75 claim. Under s. 75, assuming certain conditions are met, Mr T has 
an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. In this case, Mr T is the 
borrower, Barclays the credit provider and the airline the service provider. So, for me 
to say that Barclays should have upheld this claim I need to be satisfied that the 
airline breached the contract or there was a misrepresentation.
Mr T has explained that he only had 75 minutes to make it to his connecting flight 
and that due to the time taken to get through immigration this wasnt enough. I 
understand the situation Mr T experienced, but the airlines guidelines set out that the 
minimum connecting time between its European flights and USA flights was 75 
minutes. As this was the amount of time that was allowed on Mr Ts flights, I cannot 
say that a breach of contract occurred. 
I also do not find that I can say the ticket was misrepresented to Mr T. His tickets 
would have shown his flight times and so he was aware of the connection times and I 
have nothing to suggest this was misrepresented to Mr T.
Mr T was provided with an alternative flight the following day at no extra cost to him. I 
have looked at the terms and conditions provided regarding his flight and it states in 
the section about cancellation, delays and denied boarding that if the airline causes a 
customer to miss a connecting flight then it will provide an alternative flight at the 
earliest opportunity. In this case the delays appeared to be linked to the operations at 
the airport rather than the airline, but Mr T did miss a connecting flight and as he was 
then provided with an alternative flight at no cost, I do not find I can say the contract 
was breached.
I understand the upset caused to Mr T as he needed to travel on a certain day, and I 
note that Barclays paid him £100 as a gesture of goodwill. I can see why Mr T wants 
compensation for the trouble and upset he was caused. But this is a claim under 
s. 75, and as I do not find that there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation, I 
do not find I can say the complaint should be upheld.  
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman