DRN-3218028
The complaint
Mr D complained when MBNA Limited registered a default on his credit card account 
because of arrears resulting from the impact of the global pandemic.
What happened
Mr D opened a credit card account with MBNA in February 2020. In April 2020, he contacted 
them to request a payment deferral. His income had been impacted as a result of the global 
pandemic. MBNA agreed Mr Ds application for a payment deferral to cover the period from 
April to June 2020. But, as Mr Ds financial situation hadnt improved, he applied for the 
payment deferral to be extended. MBNA agreed to a further payment deferral which ended 
in November 2020.
Mr D called MBNA in early November 2020 seeking a further payment holiday. MBNA said 
theyd already provided payment deferrals together with breathing space previously. They 
thought Mr Ds financial situation appeared to be more of a long-term issue. So, they made 
him aware of free and impartial debt support available where he could get advice. But Mr D 
declined this support as he didnt want his credit file to be impacted.
In December 2020, MBNA received correspondence from a debt management company on 
Mr Ds behalf. This included a detailed income and expenditure analysis. The debt 
management company offered a monthly payment, on Mr Ds behalf, of £8.10. 
MBNA wrote to Mr D on 17 December 2020. They said his account would be transferred to 
their recoveries department. They confirmed that while not contractually binding, theyd 
accept the payments of £8.10 offered for the time being. But they made it clear that the 
existing account terms were still in force and the temporary arrangement wouldnt stop a 
default being registered. MBNA said theyd stop any further interest and charges and send a 
default notice and a final arrears letter before his account was transferred. They explained 
that the transfer may take up to two months and, in the meantime, Mr D should advise them, 
should his circumstances change. MBNA were clear that Mr Ds credit file would be 
impacted by the transfer.
In January 2021, the debt management company complained to MBNA on Mr Ds behalf. 
They thought that the negative impact on Mr Ds credit file was unfair  particularly given his 
previous good credit history.
MBNA responded to Mr Ds complaint. They didnt think theyd done anything wrong or acted 
unfairly. They said they were obliged to report factual information such as payment history to 
the credit reference agencies. Mr D wasnt happy with MBNAs response. So, he referred his 
complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt think MBNA had done anything wrong or acted unfairly. Mr D 
disagreed. He thought thered been a lack of government help and there was a broader 
problem with the Financial Conduct Authoritys broader regulations. So, he asked for his 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 which 
explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising out 
of the global pandemic. It provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.  
Further guidance issued by the FCA on 1 July 2020 extended these measures, and where 
consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, businesses were advised to 
freeze or reduce their payments for a further three months. 
In Mr Ds case, he applied for a payment deferral in April 2020, and this ultimately expired in 
November 2020. I cant see that any adverse data was reported on Mr Ds credit file during 
that period. So, MBNA appear to have complied with all the guidance issued by the FCA. But 
Mr Ds financial problems continued. MBNA offered support to Mr D, but he appears to have 
declined this as he didnt want his credit file to be adversely impacted.
Mr D then sought advice independently from a debt management company, who acted on 
his behalf. They assessed his financial circumstances and, with Mr Ds permission, 
approached MBNA with this information and an offer for reduced payments. But the 
payments offered were less than that required under the agreement between Mr D and 
MBNA. So, while it appears that MBNA accepted the offer in the interim, their process meant 
that control of Mr Ds account needed to be passed to their recoveries team. This is not 
unusual as a lenders recovery team is often better placed and resourced to provide support 
and guidance where financial problems exist. And this would often result in a default notice 
being issued.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) were involved in drawing up the Principles for 
the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. They 
explain whats required from a lender in these circumstances. Section three of the principles 
says If your lender does not agree a reduced or revised payment with you because the 
amount you offer to the lender is not acceptable, for example, a very low or token payment, 
the account will not be reported as an arrangement or a debt management programme 
negotiated by a third party. Any payments you make will be reflected in the current balance, 
arrears will continue to accrue, and a default may be recorded. This seems to be what 
happened in Mr Ds case, and MBNA were entitled to do that. Mr D confirmed he wasnt able 
to make the contractual payments and MBNA confirmed the amount offered wasnt 
contractually binding.
So, on balance, I cant find anything to suggest that MBNA have acted unfairly or done 
anything wrong here. They are obliged to report what actually happened to the credit 
reference agencies. And thats what theyve done here.
Mr D has expressed concern about ongoing government support and the regulations and 
guidance issued by the FCA. This service is not able to instruct either the UK Government or 
the FCA on matters regarding their support or guidance. But it is this services role, as an 
Alternative Dispute Resolution Service (ADR), to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. 
So, Im only able to consider Mr Ds complaint to MBNA within the context of the guidance 
and rules at the time.
Having done so, I cant reasonably say that MBNA have done anything wrong or acted unfairly in Mr Ds circumstances. I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed, particular given the 
financial impact the global pandemic has had upon him, but it wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
for me to ask MBNA to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman