DRN-4378399
The complaint
Mr F and Ms J complain that the mortgage they were applying for with the support of London 
and Country Mortgages Ltd was withdrawn, and their application failed, because they hadnt 
supplied requested documents. But they said these were all emailed to L&C, as agreed.
What happened
Mr F and Ms J asked L&C to help them remortgage. They said they flagged from the start 
that they were having problems using L&Cs online portal, as it just wouldnt let them upload 
required documentation.
Mr F and Ms J said theyd chosen a mortgage they wanted to apply for, and tried to upload
the documents needed for their application, without success. They said they notified L&C of
the problems, and it asked them to send the documents by email. Mr F and Ms J told us they
provided all the requested documents by email on 22 September. But on 29 September,
L&C contacted them to tell them this mortgage application had been cancelled. It said the
necessary documentation wasnt supplied in the requested time, and the underlying rate had
now been withdrawn.
Mr F and Ms J said theyd shown L&C that theyd already sent the documents, but it just said
it had no record of the documents being sent to it.
Mr F and Ms J said they lost out on the chance of a better interest rate, and they were now
paying more each month than theyd hoped to pay. They wanted L&C to cover the additional
costs, which they worked out as over £8,000 for all of the fixed interest rate period.
L&C said it had requested these documents from Mr F and Ms J a number of times. And it
said it had checked its records carefully. The documents werent received until 30
September. So L&C said it wasnt its fault that Mr F and Ms Js application didnt go ahead.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld in part. She said Mr F and Ms J
had repeatedly complained that they couldnt use L&Cs portal. And L&C hadnt resolved
this. Mr F and Ms J were told to send documents by email, and our investigator thought they
did so. She said we couldnt be sure that Mr F and Ms Js application would ever have been
successful, so she couldnt ask L&C to pay the difference between the monthly payments
under the rate theyd hoped to secure, and the one they eventually got. But she did think
L&C should pay £150 to make up for poor service.
Mr F and Ms J agreed. But L&C didnt. It said the email Mr F and Ms J said theyd sent on 22
September, with the requested documents, just hadnt been received in its organisation. And
L&C said it then chased these documents, later the same day, sending an SMS to Ms J. It
received no reply to this.
L&C said it couldnt act on an email it never received. So it didnt think it should have to pay
compensation in this case. Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to
me for a final decision. And I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I accept that Mr F and Ms J have had repeated and ongoing problems with using the 
L&C portal to upload documents. I think this must have been quite frustrating for them, 
although it looks as if L&C had put in place a workaround, which allowed them to email 
documents. 
That brings me to what appears to me to be the core dispute in this case, whether Mr F 
and Ms J did in fact send an email to L&C on 22 September, with the final documents 
needed for their application.
Mr F and Ms J have shown us an email they say was sent. That appears to me to be in 
the format I would expect, and the addresses used look to me to be correct.
L&C is adamant this email was not received. Its shared with us internal 
communications, which detail the search it has done for emails from either Mr F or Ms J, 
and the results. L&C says this shows that the email wasnt received in its organisation. 
The implication is either that the email was not sent, or that something external to L&Cs 
systems has gone wrong, and the email was never received.
However, I note that the results of L&Cs search say that between 15 September and 30
September, Mr F and Ms J only emailed one named contact within the organisation, and
they only did so on two dates, 29 or 30 September. L&C has told us that this search 
covered emails sent to anyone within its organisation, and emails sent with and without 
attachments.
But the email exchange that Mr F and Ms J sent us, to show that they submitted the
requested documents, is with a different member of staff. And I can see that, further 
down the same email chain, there is an exchange of emails they had with a member of 
L&Cs staff, on 15 September. The emails from L&C ask for more information, and 
include an email in reply saying Mr F and Ms J are on holiday.
I think its important to note here that what I can see on this email chain fits with what 
L&C said in its final response letter to Mr F and Ms J, that it had been in touch with Mr F 
and Ms J on 15 September, and it was made aware then that they were on holiday.
So it does look to me as if L&C did have at least one other email exchange with Mr F 
and Ms J during the period it has searched. But that email doesnt seem to have been 
picked up by L&Cs subsequent search.
I have considered the evidence that L&C has sent to our service, and Ive been unable 
to conclude that L&Cs search is as robust as it has suggested. I dont think what L&C 
has said rules out that Mr F and Ms J emailed documents to L&C on 22 September, as 
they suggested, and their email copies would seem to show. Rather, I think its more 
likely than not that this email of 22 September which Mr F and Ms J have shown to our 
service, was sent as theyve said.
I do think, though, that Mr F and Ms Js application didnt fail solely because this email
wasnt actioned by L&C. It does appear as if L&C had warned Mr F and Ms J of the
upcoming withdrawal of their rate, and that documents needed to be submitted at the 
latest by 25 August. So I think it may have been prudent to check that the documents 
they sent were safely received on or before this date.Our investigator suggested a payment of £150, which she said would be in respect of 
the stress and inconvenience L&Cs mistakes had caused. I have weighed up all the 
above issues, and I do thats appropriate here. I think this would provide a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. So thats what I currently propose to award.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F and Ms J simply acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision, but didnt comment 
further. 
L&C replied, to say that it would stand by the fact that it had no record of having received the 
email of 22 September from Mr F and Ms J. But L&C said it could understand why this had 
been brought into question, because that other email Id identified, of 15 September, hadnt 
shown up on its IT checks. 
L&C said it couldnt replicate those IT checks now, so it could tell what had gone wrong. 
These checks are only able to look back a certain number of months. So L&C said it would 
just like to say that it could understand the outcome reached, and would accept it.
Neither side has offered further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. Ill 
now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that London and Country Mortgages Ltd must pay Mr F and Ms J £150 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Ms J to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman