DRN-3551247
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr G complain about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) 
handled a claim under their home insurance policy. When I mention Admiral I also mean its 
suppliers.
What happened
Mrs B and Mr G have a home insurance policy with Admiral covering their household 
buildings and contents.
The details of the claim are well known to both parties and I wont repeat all of them here. 
But for simplicity the main points are:
Water was leaking from an upstairs bathroom into the kitchen below, damaging the 
kitchen ceiling, kitchen units and the bathroom itself. 
Mrs B and Mr G found a third-party company who could carry out the work to repair 
the bathroom and Admiral paid for this.
Some kitchen units were removed and stored in a playroom in the house.
Mrs B and Mr G asked for the kitchen units to be taken away. Admiral arranged this, 
but its contractors took the units and some cupboard doors and an extractor fan. It 
took several weeks for the units to be taken away and Mrs B and Mr G had to source 
a replacement extractor fan themselves.
Because the extractor fan had been removed, the kitchen had little ventilation, so 
using their stove meant the fire alarms would be activated after a few minutes 
cooking, which would interrupt their childrens sleep. 
Mrs B and Mr G chased Admiral repeatedly for updates throughout this time, at one 
point making eight calls over two days.
Because Mrs B and Mr G werent happy with the way Admirals supplier was 
handling their claim, Admiral changed the company it was using.
The claim for the kitchen was ultimately settled by Admiral and it included payment 
for some other parts of the claim that were disputed by both parties. 
Admiral looked into Mrs B and Mr Gs complaint and upheld it in part. Admiral agreed its 
communications had been poor, and that its service had fallen short in several areas of the 
claim. But it said that overall the claim had progressed at the speed it would expect. Admiral 
agreed to pay Mrs B and Mr G £150 compensation for their inconvenience. 
Mrs B and Mr G remained unhappy so they brought their complaint to this service. They ask 
for an increased amount of compensation for the delays in settling the claim. Our 
investigator looked into it and said he agreed that Mrs B and Mr G had suffered avoidable 
inconvenience. He said he thought Admiral had dealt with the poor communications in its 
response, but hadnt considered the disruption to Mrs B and Mr Gs family life by the kitchen 
units being stored in the playroom for a lengthy period. He said he thought Admiral should 
pay an additional £100 compensation for this, making a total of £250.
Admiral accepted the view, but Mrs B and Mr G did not. They didnt think that £250 
compensation was sufficient for the inconvenience theyd had chasing Admiral and its 
suppliers. They say they were inconvenienced by not being able to use their kitchen fully for 
a prolonged period.
Because Mrs B and Mr G didnt agree with the view, their complaint has been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Mrs B and Mr G that Ive read their, and Admirals, evidence carefully and 
even though I havent mentioned all of it here, or in the timeline of events, I have taken it all 
into account when forming my opinion.
Mrs B and Mr G initially contacted this service asking for the claim to be settled fairly and 
speedily, and asking for compensation for their stress and time wasted.
The repair and replacement of the bathroom and kitchen now seem settled and I can see 
from later correspondence with Mrs B and Mr G that they make no further comments on this, 
so I think its fair for me to say that those elements of the claim are complete to their 
satisfaction.
The remaining part of the complaint I must consider is the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mrs B and Mr G by Admirals claims process and impact on their family life. 
I can see from Admirals response to Mrs B and Mr G that it agrees its service during the 
claim was poor, and particularly the parts that were carried out by one of its suppliers. 
Admiral changed this supplier due to Mrs B and Mr Gs dissatisfaction during the claim and 
afterwards the claim seems to have progressed somewhat better. 
Admiral has already paid £150 for Mrs B and Mr Gs inconvenience for them having to 
repeatedly chase up Admiral and its contractors and Im not going to ask it to pay more.
Any insurance claim of this nature is likely to cause some element of disruption to peoples 
lives. This includes potentially needing to take time to deal with aspects of the claim and 
allowing time for the claim to progress. However, in this case, it clearly went beyond a 
normal level of disruption and I think its fair to say Admiral and its suppliers did substantially 
contribute to this. 
I have thought carefully about the disruption to Mrs B and Mr Gs family life because of the 
storage of the kitchen units in their childrens playroom for several weeks, and the 
inconvenience of them not being able to use their stove properly for more than a few minutes 
at a time due to the fire alarms being triggered. It seems to me that this must have been a 
very unsatisfactory situation to be in, and particularly with a young family in the house. 
But I can also see that Admiral responded to Mrs B and Mr Gs complaints about this, and it 
has apologised for its service and agreed to pay additional compensation of £100 for the disruption, making a total of £250. I appreciate Mrs B and Mr G will find my decision 
disappointing, but Ive looked at what this service would recommend in similar situations and 
Im not persuaded to ask Admiral to pay more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs B and Mr G a total of £250 for their distress 
and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman