DRN-2739968
The complaint
Mr N complains that Nationwide Building Society has wrongly recorded information about 
cash withdrawals from his account.
What happened
Mr N contacted Nationwide for details about two cash withdrawals from his account  each 
for £50 made on 16 June 2020. When Nationwide told him the location of the cash machine 
it recorded for them he said that this was incorrect as he hadnt used that one. He said that 
Nationwide didnt address this as part of its response to his complaint.
Nationwide had issued a final response saying that the withdrawals were at 13:23 and 13:46 
on that day at the location of the third-party financial business it had initially given. These 
were made when the chip on Mr Ns card was read and the correct PIN entered. It said that 
to raise a fraud complaint it would need to stop the card and replace it first. And that as Mr N 
didnt want this to happen it wouldnt take any further action and referred him to local police.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that there had 
been a misunderstanding about Mr Ns complaint. She said that Mr Ns point was that it was 
very important to record accurately where and when his bank card was used.  Mr N said the 
circumstances in which the fraudulent data came to be recorded needed to be investigated. 
But she said that this hadnt stopped him referring the complaint to this service.
The terminal identification number was provided on the audit report about the withdrawals 
from Nationwide. She contacted the third-party business where Nationwide said Mr N had 
withdrawn the money. And it confirmed that this terminal number did relate to its cash 
machine. She also received confirmation of the different terminal identification for the 
financial business Mr N said he had used. But she noticed that both businesses were within 
0.1 miles of each other and shared the same postcode. She also provided Mr N with 
photographs of both businesses showing some similarities in the appearance of the outside 
of each. There would now be no CCTV available and this was something normally obtained 
through the police if it related to a third-party. She didnt think that Nationwide had made a 
mistake.
Mr N didnt agree. He said he would have to have walked past the financial business where 
he said he would have withdrawn the money to the one Nationwide claimed hed used twice. 
That didnt make sense as he had an account at that first business. He had never gone to 
the financial business Nationwide claimed he had but had sometimes to the other. And so, 
something wasnt right and unless he could be placed there he remained of the view that this 
was incorrect.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully appreciate Mr Ns recollection about where he made withdrawals that day. And his 
clear concern about what he has been told by Nationwide and the security of his account. 
Ive looked closely at the evidence from Nationwide. It shows that Mr N withdrew the money 
at the cash machine of that different financial business  although as our investigator has 
said one close to and similar in appearance to the one Mr N thinks hed have used.
Mr N doesnt want to challenge whether he authorised the withdrawals himself with his card 
and PIN; the issue is the cash machine used. Had he done so Nationwide would have 
replaced his card and looked into a claim of fraud. I dont think it was unreasonable in not 
doing so here and I can see why it misunderstood Mr Ns real point. 
In the circumstances I think sufficient investigation into what happened has now taken place. 
And there isnt going to be any more evidence. Having considered this, I dont have a 
reasonable basis to find Nationwide most likely made a mistake. I appreciate Mr N will 
remain dissatisfied by the result.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman