DRN-3104364
The complaint
Miss C complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided her with a loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Everyday Loans provided a loan to Miss C as follows:
Date 
takenAmount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
repayableDate 
repaid
11/07/18 £1,500.00 18 months £189.33 £3,407.94 28/02/20
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She didnt think Everyday Loans should 
have provided Miss C with the loan and she set out the steps that needed to be taken to put 
things right.
Everyday Loans responded by telling us that it disagreed with the adjudicators assessment.
In summary, Everyday Loans said that its affordability calculation showed that Miss C had 
around £305 disposable income left after paying her monthly outgoings and the repayment 
on its loan. And that her borrowing from short-term lenders wasnt a reason to uphold the 
complaint when looking overall at Miss Cs creditworthiness and her circumstances.
As the complaint hasnt been settled, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry 
practice and law. Ive kept all this in mind when deciding Miss Cs complaint.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think 
about when deciding Miss Cs complaint. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy 
itself that the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing 
to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable 
and proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan 
repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay.
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. And its important to keep in mind that when working 
out if a loan looks likely to be affordable a lender must take a borrower focussed 
approach and think carefully about the impact of the lending on the customer. The 
lending decision shouldnt just be about the business risk to the lender of not getting its 
money back.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint.
Everyday Loans gathered information from Miss C by asking her about her income and 
expenses and looking at some of her recent bank statements before it agreed to lend to her. 
It relied on statistical information which indicated what the likely living expenses would be for 
someone in Miss Cs particular circumstances based on national UK averages - and it 
included an extra amount as a safety margin to allow for variation in income and 
expenditure. It also checked Miss Cs credit file to understand her existing monthly credit 
commitments and credit history. Everyday Loans said that based on these checks it was 
satisfied that the loan was affordable for Miss C.
I've thought carefully about what Everyday Loans has said, including the comments it has 
made in response to our adjudicators view, but I dont think that Everyday Loans made a 
fair lending decision when it provided this loan.
I say this because it looks to me like Everyday Loans put too much emphasis on what it 
considered affordable on a strict pounds and pence basis. I dont think Everyday Loans 
properly took into account Miss Cs credit record and the information it saw in the bank 
statements when thinking about her overall financial situation.
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history 
showing other short-term loans or even an impaired credit record  and I dont disagree 
with Everyday Loans when it says these wouldnt necessarily be a sufficient reason to 
prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application.
But I think Everyday Loans should have been concerned when its affordability calculation 
showed that she was already committed to paying around £418 just to service her 
existing debt. Given that Everyday Loans understood that her monthly take home pay 
was on average around £1,642, this meant that Miss C was already paying unsecured 
loan and credit card providers over a quarter of her net pay. I think that this was such a 
significant proportion of Miss Cs monthly income it was a clear warning sign that she was 
already over-reliant on credit and potentially an indication that she was having serious 
money problems. And that was borne out by what Everyday Loans could see on the 
credit checks it obtained showing recent borrowing and some payment problems on 
existing accounts. 
There was also evidence apparent on her bank statements showing that Miss C was 
financially over-stretched, borrowing from friends and often overdrawn on her current 
account. All in all, I think that Everyday Loans shouldve realised that Miss Cs credit 
history showed that managing her debt had got beyond her control. Everyday Loans saw that she had been unable to pay her existing contractual credit commitments even though 
she was still taking out expensive high cost credit to supplement her income.
I think that Everyday Loans saw enough to realise that whatever its affordability checks 
appeared to show, it would be irresponsible to lend further to Miss C when it was evident 
that she was already failing to manage her existing debt  and it shouldve recognised that 
this loan was likely to add to her overall indebtedness and financial difficulty. I've taken into 
account that Miss C told Everyday Loans that the loan was intended for debt consolidation. 
But Everyday Loans didnt have control over this  it paid the money direct to Miss C. And 
I think the scale of her overall debt (an amount that Everyday Loans saw was more than 
£10,000) and the extent of her evident money problems, compared to the much smaller 
value of the loan, would suggest that she would remain in serious financial trouble 
regardless.
It looks like Everyday Loans didnt assume that Miss C would use the loan it provided to 
consolidate other high cost loans and its calculations showed that the loan should still be 
affordable for her.
But this makes no difference to my overall view. If the effect of this loan was to add to Miss 
Cs overall indebtedness, this would mean she faced having to pay well over a third of her 
net pay on servicing her debt. This would be such a substantial proportion of her take home 
pay so as to make it unlikely the loan would be sustainably affordable on this basis over the 
whole loan term.
The fact that Miss C was ultimately able to repay this loan doesnt mean that she was able 
to do so in a way that was sustainable for her. 
So, for all these reasons, I am upholding Miss Cs complaint that she should not have 
been given the loan.
Miss C has been further indebted with a high amount of interest on a loan that she 
shouldnt have been provided with so she has lost out as a result of what Everyday 
Loans did wrong. I think Everyday Loans needs to take the following steps to put things 
right.
Putting things right
I havent seen enough to make me think that Everyday Loans acted towards Miss C in any 
other way that wasnt fair and reasonable. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss C to repay the capital amount that she 
borrowed, because she had the benefit of that lending. 
But she has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to her. In line with 
this Services approach, Miss C shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she 
borrowed.
This loan has been repaid so Everyday Loans should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Miss C received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Miss C made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Miss C having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).Whilst its fair that Miss Cs credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So Everyday Loans should remove any 
negative information recorded on Miss Cs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted 
if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Cs complaint and direct Everyday Lending 
Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) to take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman