DRN-2143005
The complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt allow him to pay a cheque into his 
savings account in branch.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr W went to a Nationwide branch to pay a cheque into his savings account. 
He says he wasnt allowed into the branch to pay the cheque in over the counter, so he went 
to a second branch. This branch wouldnt let him pay in the cheque either, so he went to a 
third branch, which did. Mr W complained to Nationwide as he felt the first and second 
branch he visited should have allowed him to pay in the cheque. 
Nationwide responded to say because of the pandemic it was only allowing essential 
banking to take place in branches. In its view paying a cheque in to a savings account wasnt 
essential. It said it did offer to take the cheque from him and process it. And it said the third 
branch let him pay in the cheque as an exception. 
Mr W didnt think Nationwide had treated him fairly, so he brought the complaint to our 
service. An investigator looked into the matter. He concluded, in summary, that it had been 
reasonable for Nationwide to decline Mr Ws request to pay in the cheque over the counter 
and felt its offer to take the cheque and process it was a fair alternative. 
Mr W disagreed with the investigator saying, amongst other things, that Nationwide didnt 
offer to take the cheque and process it. As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr W attempted to pay in his cheque in branch Nationwides policy was to focus on 
essential banking. In light of government and regulator guidance I dont think this was 
unusual or unreasonable. 
Nationwide says paying a cheque into a savings account isnt essential banking. I agree. So 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to decline Mr Ws request to pay in the 
cheque over the counter, especially as there were other ways the cheque could have been 
paid in  such as by posting the cheque to Nationwide, or dropping it through the letterbox.
Nationwide says it offered to take the cheque from Mr W and process it. Mr W says it didnt. 
But I dont think it makes a material difference to reaching a fair outcome here. I say this 
because Im satisfied Nationwide didnt need to take the cheque from him. 
Mr W went to a second branch and his request to pay in the cheque over the counter was 
declined. For the same reasons as above, I dont think this was unreasonable. The third 
branch agreed to Mr Ws request, but Im satisfied this was an exception, so this doesnt 
make me think the first and second branch should have accepted his request too.
Im aware Mr W is unhappy with the way Nationwide handled his complaint, but as complaint 
handling isnt a regulated activity, I cant comment on this. 
Overall, I think Nationwide treated Mr W fairly, so I dont think it need do anything more to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020. 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman