DRN-2272238
The complaint
Mr S complains that Ageas Insurance Limited held him at fault for an accident after a claim 
was made on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S was involved in a collision with another driver. Ageas initially disputed liability. Then the 
other insurer provided a statement from an independent witness. Her description of events 
placed Mr S at fault. Ageas told Mr S it would be unable to defend the matter in court. So it 
accepted liability on Mr Ss behalf and settled the other drivers claim. 
Mr S was unhappy that he wasnt involved in this decision. He thought there werent any 
independent witnesses present. He said the other driver had admitted liability at the time. 
Ageas said it should have done more at the time to communicate its decision to Mr S.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Ageas 
had reasonably considered the evidence available before making its decision on liability. He 
thought it was entitled to do this by the policy terms and conditions. He thought Ageas 
communication hadnt affected the outcome of the claim. 
Mr S replied that he didnt see any independent witnesses at the time. He disagreed with her 
statement. He thought Ageas should have involved him in the decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr S feels frustrated by Ageas decision. He said the fault claim has 
had an effect on his premium quote at renewal. I can see that Mr S is adamant that the other 
driver is lying and that he wasnt in the wrong. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr S the same as someone else in his position. 
I think Ageas is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr S to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr S has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
I can see that the evidence Ageas had to consider was the two parties versions of events. 
Mr S said he was pulling into a driveway when the other car collided into his. The other 
driver said Mr S reversed out of the driveway into her path. This was confirmed by a 
statement from an independent witness. Mr Ss relatives reported what hed told them, but 
they didnt witness the collision and they wouldnt be regarded as independent in any case. 
Mr S said the other driver admitted liability at the time. But theres no evidence to 
substantiate this. Mr S also thought the independent witness wasnt present at the time. But 
Ive seen no evidence to support this or that she wasnt independent of the parties. I can see 
that Ageas didnt just rely on her statement when Mr S raised concerns about this. Ageas 
also spoke to the witness and questioned her closely about her evidence. I think this was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances in order to establish the witnesss independence and 
reliability.
I think Ageas considered the likely prospects of being able to successfully defend Mr S if the 
matter went to court. It thought this was unlikely and I can see that it told Mr S this. So it 
decided to admit liability as I think its entitled to do by the policy terms and conditions. I think 
it did this after reasonably considering the evidence available. So I cant say that Ageas did 
anything wrong in this.
Ageas has agreed that its communication with Mr S about its decision could have been 
better. But I cant see that this has affected the outcome for Mr S as I cant see that he had 
any further evidence that Ageas should have considered.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman