DRN-3933661
The complaint
Miss A complains about a settlement offer from Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF), in relation to 
the quality of a used car that was supplied through a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In March 2022, Miss A acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with BMF.  
The cash price of the car was £6,400. Miss A paid a deposit of £1000, which included a part 
exchange of a previous vehicle to the value of £700. So, the total amount financed on the 
agreement was £5,400 payable over 33 months.
Miss A said that in June 2022 her car broke down. She said she was told by a garage that 
the issue was related to the cars transmission, and so she wasnt able to use the car for 
around two months after it broke down. 
In July 2022 Miss A complained to BMF about the issues. Miss A said as her car wasnt 
driveable, she hired a car from a friend which cost her £125 per week. BMF issued their final 
response in August 2022. They upheld her complaint and agreed to a rejection of the car. 
They offered to cover her travel costs as well as pay her £100 in compensation.
Unhappy with their offer, Miss A brought her complaint to our service for investigation. Miss 
A said she wanted her full deposit back, two monthly repayments refunded, and 
reimbursement of the car hire costs, as well as toll charges she incurred while driving the 
hired car. 
Miss A said the issues with her car has caused her significant stress and upset due to her 
health condition where she requires a car to get around. In an email to our investigator in 
December 2022, Miss A confirmed that the dealership had refunded her deposit in full. 
Having reviewed all the information, our investigator recommended that Miss As complaint 
should be upheld. Our investigator concluded that a rejection was the fairest outcome and 
that BMF should settle the complaint with the following actions:
refund to Miss A all rentals for the period from July 2022 to the date of settlement 
refund to Miss A £1,000 for the car hire and £125 for the toll charges, less two 
monthly repayment amounts to account for the continued provision of a car
pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement
pay a further amount of £100 for any trouble and upset thats been caused due to the 
faulty goods
remove any adverse information from Miss As credit file in relation to the agreement.
Miss A accepted this recommendation. However, BMF didnt agree to all of it. They disputed 
the hire costs. They believed that the car, which Miss A hired, was likely to be a household 
vehicle rather than one that had been rented. In the circumstances BMF asked that the 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
In their final response to Miss As complaint, BMF confirmed the car was being repaired by 
the dealership. However, they also confirmed that the dealership had agreed to a rejection 
due to the unreasonable delays. The delays to the repairs and the subsequent offer of 
rejection are also detailed in their complaint system notes.
In her letter of complaint, Miss A complained about the delays to having her car repaired and 
the impact it was having on her. Particularly when taking into consideration her health 
condition.  Miss A accepted the rejection but wasnt happy with the redress that was being 
offered to her. 
Under the CRA, if goods are not of satisfactory quality they do not conform to the contract. 
Section 19 of the CRA sets out certain remedies available to the consumer for goods that do 
not conform. One of those remedies is the right to a repair. However, the CRA also says that 
any repairs should be completed in a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience 
to the consumer. So, in the circumstances, Im satisfied that a rejection of the car is a fair 
outcome. 
BMF system notes confirm they offered Miss A an allowance of £120 a week for a 
replacement hired car. 
Miss A provided copies of bank transfers she made to the value of £1000, for an eight-week 
period which she said was for the hire of a car from a friend. In her complaint email to BMF 
Miss A said she arranged the car hire through a friend because she couldnt get to work, the 
rental cars were too expensive, and she required an automatic car with unlimited mileage.
In addition to the bank transfers, Miss A provided us with copies of quotes she obtained for 
car hire that was significantly in excess of the £120 allowance she was being offered by 
BMF. Miss A said she hired the car from her friend for eight weeks at £125 per week.In consideration of the circumstances Miss A found herself in, I think its reasonable to 
expect BMF to reimburse this amount to her.
Following our investigators view, BMF disagreed with the recommendation to reimburse 
Miss A for the rental of a car she said she arranged through a friend. BMF believed the 
friend whom Miss A hired the car from was living at the same address as her, and so 
believed it was likely the car was a household vehicle rather than one being hired by Miss A.
I acknowledge BMFs concerns about the validity of the car hire, however without any 
specific evidence of the contrary Im persuaded by what Miss A has said to us. For example, 
even if the hirer is living at the same address as Miss A, and keeps the hired vehicle at their 
home, the evidence provided shows that Miss A has still paid for the use of it. In addition, 
Ive not seen any terms of hire provided by BMF that Miss A has in some way contravened 
or breached.
Miss A was being significantly impacted by not having a car. She explained that due to 
health reasons she wasnt able to travel to work without a car, and required a specific type of 
vehicle with sufficient mileage allowance to allow for her commute. Miss A provided 
evidence that shed transferred funds which she noted on her statement as being for the 
loan of a car. BMF accounted for an allowance of £120 a week for a hire car, and Miss A 
was able to source a car, that suited her needs for £125 per week. Im persuaded that Miss 
A acted reasonably by sourcing a car at a fair cost. Im satisfied that its reasonable in the 
circumstances for BMF to reimburse Miss A for this. 
Putting things right
All things considered; under the CRA a rejection was reasonable in consideration of the 
delays to the repair of Miss As car. The dealership has already accepted the car back and 
BMF has confirmed in their final response dated 24 August 2022, that Miss A was no longer 
liable for the car and that her monthly payments would cease from that point. Miss A has 
also confirmed that her deposit was refunded in full. 
In consideration of whats already been confirmed, Ill be instructing BMF to refund to Miss A 
all monthly repayments made from July 2022. Reimburse to Miss A £1,125 for the cost of the 
hire car and the toll charges. However, BMF should deduct from this amount the value of two 
months repayments as the expected amount that Miss A would have had to pay had she 
been in possession and had use of her car. Ill also be instructing BMF to pay 8% simple 
interest on all refunds as well as removing the agreement from Miss As credit file.
Miss A has described the impact the whole situation has had on her which was particularly 
challenging due to her health condition. I acknowledge BMF have already offered to pay 
Miss A £100 in compensation, however Im in agreement with our investigator that a further 
£100 is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I uphold this complaint and instruct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
refund to Miss A all monthly repayments from July 2022 
reimburse to Miss A £1,125 for the car hire and toll charges, less two monthly 
repayment amounts to account for the continued provision of a car
pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunds and reimbursements from the date of 
payment until the date of settlementpay a further amount of £100 compensation, in addition to what had been offered in 
their final response, for the distress and inconvenience thats been caused 
remove the agreement from Miss As credit file
If Blue Motor Finance Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Miss A how much its taken off. It 
should also give Miss A a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman