DRN-4038276
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L complain that Santander UK Plc unfairly withdrew its offer to allow them to 
port their existing mortgage product with it to a new property when it found out there was 
Chancel Repair (CR) liability registered against the title of the new property. They say this 
resulted in them having to exit their mortgage with Santander early and incur an Early 
Repayment Charge (ERC), which they want Santander to refund with interest.
Mr L and Mrs L also say Santanders actions have caused them considerable stress.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr L and Mrs L took out a repayment mortgage with Santander. The loan 
amount was £332,999 and the term was 17 years. The mortgage had an initial fixed period 
until December 2024 at the rate of 1.65%. After this, the rate would revert to Santanders 
Follow-on Rate for the remainder of the term.  
The mortgage offer set out that if Mr L and Mrs L redeemed the mortgage before       
December 2024, an ERC would apply.
In 2021, Mr L and Mrs L decided they wanted to move to a different property. They asked 
Santander if they could port their existing mortgage product to the new property and take out 
additional borrowing. Santander initially agreed to this and on 12 August 2021, it issued a 
mortgage offer comprising of two parts:
1. £317,690 for a term of 20 years with a fixed rate of 1.19% until 2 November 2026 
(additional borrowing)
2. £302,089 for a term of 20 years with a fixed rate of 1.65% until 2 December 2024 
(existing mortgage)
Shortly afterwards, Mr L and Mrs L found out that there was CR liability registered against 
the title of the property. They purchased indemnity insurance that provided cover for any 
future costs arising from the liability, and they explained this to Santander. However, on                  
7 September 2021, Santander told Mr L and Mrs L it was no longer willing to lend against the 
property because of the CR liability. 
Mr L and Mrs L contested Santander's decision on the basis they felt they had acceptable 
CR indemnity insurance. They also said they were aware it had agreed to lend against 
properties in the same area with CR liability.
On 11 September 2021, Santander issued its final response letter. In summary, it said it 
didnt accept applications where there is CR liability registered against the title of the 
property and it was satisfied it hadnt made a mistake. 
Because Santander was no longer willing to allow Mr L and Mrs L to port their existing 
mortgage to the new property, Mr L and Mrs L say they had no choice but to exit the 
mortgage early and take out a new mortgage with a different lender. If they didnt the 
property chain would collapse, which would be very costly for them.
On 15 September 2021, Mr L and Mrs L received a mortgage offer from another lender 
(L1), which they accepted. The loan amount was £642,999 for a term of 20 years with an 
initial fixed rate of 1.16% until 31 December 2026.
Mr L and Mrs L completed the purchase of the property on 24 September 2021 and incurred 
an ERC of £15,031 for ending their mortgage with Santander early. A few days later 
Santander got in touch with Mr L and Mrs Ls solicitor to let them know that it was able to 
proceed with the lending because of Mr L and Mrs L having acceptable indemnity insurance.
Since Mr L and Mrs L were unhappy with Santander, they registered their complaint with our 
service. They said they wouldnt have incurred the ERC had Santander not unfairly 
withdrawn its mortgage offer when it did.   
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he didnt think Santander had applied its policy fairly or in a timely matter. And if it 
had, Mr L and Mrs L wouldnt have incurred the ERC. Because of this he felt Santander 
should refund the ERC to Mr L and Mrs L, plus interest at 8% simple a year. He also felt 
Santander should pay £300 to Mr L and Mrs L for the distress and inconvenience the matter 
had caused.  
Santander only agreed to refund part of the ERC. It felt the savings that Mr L and Mrs L 
would make from having a mortgage with a lower rate of interest with L1 should be deducted 
from the ERC refund. The investigator agreed and Santander completed a redress 
calculation. In summary, it calculated the redress as follows:
- £15,031 (the ERC)
- PLUS £1,006 (8% simple interest a year from the date the ERC was paid to the date 
of calculation)
- LESS £4,889 (the difference in interest)
- PLUS £300 (distress and inconvenience)
TOTAL: £11,448
The investigator felt the formula Santander had used to calculate the redress was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Mr L and Mrs L didnt agree. They said they wanted the total amount they paid to Santander 
to be refunded plus interest. They also said the amount calculated by Santander hadnt 
taken into consideration they had funded the ERC by adding £15,000 to their new mortgage 
with L1, which is included in the total loan amount they are paying interest on. 
As agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on how this complaint should be 
settled. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Santander has accepted the investigators findings that it hadnt applied its lending policy 
fairly, and it needs to do something to put things right. But it doesnt think it should refund the 
total amount of the ERC it charged due the interest savings Mr L and Mrs L will make from 
taking out a new mortgage with L1.  
So, the issue for me to decide here is whether the amount Santander has agreed to pay to 
Mr L and Mrs L to put things right is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
As a starting point, where a customer has lost out financially, we would look to put them 
back in the position they would have been in, as far as possible, if the business hadnt got it 
wrong.
Here, if Santander hadnt withdrawn its mortgage offer, Mr L and Mrs L wouldnt have 
needed to exit their mortgage with Santander and incur the resulting ERC.
Mr L and Mrs L now have a new mortgage with L1, so they cant return to the position they 
were in before Santander got things wrong. But I think the first step should be for Santander 
to refund the ERC that Mr L and Mrs L incurred because they wouldnt have had to pay this 
charge had Santander not got things wrong when it did.
A further consideration here is that Mr L and Mrs L were able to secure a new mortgage with 
L1 for a fixed term with a lower interest rate than the fixed rates on their existing mortgage 
with Santander and the further borrowing it had offered. So, they are effectively making a 
saving due to them paying less in interest. I think it is fair to take this saving into account 
when calculating the financial loss Mr L and Mrs L have incurred, which is what Santander 
has done. I think Santander has acted reasonably when doing this.
However, Santander hasnt factored into its calculation that Mr L and Mrs L funded the ERC 
by adding £15,000 to their new mortgage with L1, so this is included in the total loan amount 
they are paying interest on. Given that this additional borrowing was needed due to 
Santanders decision to unfairly withdraw its offer, I think the cost of this to Mr L and Mrs L 
should be included when calculating how much Santander should pay to put things right.
However, I can see that there is a provision in Mr L and Mrs Ls new mortgage with L1 which 
allows them to make overpayments of up to 10% of the outstanding balance each calendar 
year without charge. This means that Mr L and Mrs L would be able to pay the amount 
refunded from Santander to their mortgage without any charge if they choose to. This is 
unlikely to be enough to allow Mr L and Mrs L to pay off all of the £15,000 they borrowed 
(due to the deductions discussed above), but it would reduce the overall loan amount and 
therefore the amount of interest Mr L and Mrs L will be charged.
Santander has recently told us that it will also refund the interest Mr L and Mrs L have paid 
on the additional £15,000 added to the mortgage with L1 plus 8% interest. I think this is fair. 
But I also think it should cover the ongoing cost of the interest on the amount (of the 
£15,000) that will be left after the partial refund has been deducted until the end of the fixed 
rate term, unless Mr L and Mrs L are able to repay this sooner.I appreciate Mr L and Mrs L will be disappointed to be left with some of the additional 
borrowing on their mortgage with L1. However, they will continue to make savings due to  
being charged a lower interest rate with L1, which could be used to repay the amount 
remaining at the end of the fixed rate term without penalty.
So having thought about this carefully, Ive set out below what I think would be a fair way for 
Santander to calculate redress.
Putting things right:
To settle this complaint, I propose to require Santander UK Plc to calculate redress as 
follows:
- £15,031 (the ERC charged)
- LESS the difference Mr L and Mrs L will pay in interest for their new mortgage 
with L1 than they would have paid to Santander as set out in its mortgage offer 
dated         12 August 2021. This should be calculated until the expiry of the 
respective fixed rate terms set out in Santanders offer dated 12 August 2021.
- PLUS the amount Mr L and Mrs L have paid in interest on the £15,000 additional 
borrowing included in the mortgage with L1 from the start of the mortgage with L1 
until the date of calculation, plus 8% simple interest a year from the start of the 
mortgage with L1 until the date of calculation. 
- PLUS the interest Mr L and Mrs L will pay on the amount remaining after 
deducting the partial refund calculated from the £15,000 additional borrowing 
included in the mortgage with L1 until the end of the fixed term with L1.
The total amount calculated should be paid to Mr L and Mrs L.
Santander should also make a separate award of £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its actions.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to deduct tax from the interest. Santander 
should give Mr L and Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if they ask 
for one.
Responses to my provisional decision
Santander responded to say it accepts my provisional decision and it has nothing further to 
add.
Mr L and Mrs L responded to say they accept my provisional decision and asked for the 
interest calculations to include the full duration of the issue. They also asked for a deadline 
to be given for the calculation to be completed and redress paid to them.
Mr L and Mrs L also said they wanted the calculation to be completed prior to my final 
decision and the investigator confirmed on my behalf that this wasnt something I could 
instruct Santander to do before I issue my final response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After reviewing everything, I see no reason to depart from my findings in my provisional 
decision.Putting things right
To settle this complaint, I require Santander UK Plc to calculate redress as follows:
- £15,031 (the ERC charged)
- LESS the difference Mr L and Mrs L will pay in interest for their new mortgage 
with L1 than they would have paid to Santander as set out in its mortgage offer 
dated 12 August 2021. This should be calculated until the expiry of the respective 
fixed rate terms set out in Santanders offer dated 12 August 2021.
- PLUS the amount Mr L and Mrs L have paid in interest on the £15,000 additional 
borrowing included in the mortgage with L1 from the start of the mortgage with L1 
until the date of calculation, plus 8% simple interest a year from the start of the 
mortgage with L1 until the date of calculation. 
- PLUS the interest Mr L and Mrs L will pay on the amount remaining after 
deducting the partial refund calculated from the £15,000 additional borrowing 
included in the mortgage with L1 until the end of the fixed term with L1.
The total amount calculated should be paid to Mr L and Mrs L within one month of us 
notifying it of Mr L and Mrs Ls acceptance of this decision.
 
Santander should also make a separate award of £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its actions.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to deduct tax from the interest. Santander 
should give Mr L and Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if they ask 
for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Santander UK Plc to calculate 
and pay redress as I have set out above within one month of us notifying it of                      
Mr L and Mrs Ls acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Michelle Griffiths
Ombudsman