DRN-3034878
The complaint
Ms H complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Plcs handling of a claim under her home 
insurance policy and about their decision to decline that claim.
What happened
Ms H has a home insurance policy with RSA with covers her buildings and contents amongst 
other things.
She made a claim on 6 April 2021 after she discovered water ingress and damage in her 
porch.
RSA appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage. His view was that the damage was due to 
poor design and construction of the porch  and was gradual, rather than being the result of 
a single insured event. So, RSA declined the claim.
Ms H wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to RSA. She didnt agree with RSAs 
decision to decline the claim. She said shed been told when she called to make the claim 
that the damage would be covered. 
She also said the surveyor was rude and unprofessional. And that the survey company 
hadnt offered her suitable alternative times for the appointment when she was unable to 
make the first date and time they suggested. She also said the surveyor had damaged her 
porch floor when he carried out the inspection.
RSA maintained that their decision to decline the claim was correct. And they said there was 
no evidence Ms H had been told the claim would be successful. But they part upheld the 
complaint and said theyd give feedback to the survey company about her dissatisfaction 
with the service theyd provided.
Ms H wasnt happy with this outcome and brought her complaint to us. She wants RSA to 
pay the claim and to compensate her for the stress and inconvenience shes suffered due to 
their poor handling of the claim and the surveyors poor service.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think RSA had done anything wrong.
Ms H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal with the main issue first. Im sorry to disappoint Ms H  and Im sorry that shes 
experienced these problems with her porch through no fault of her own  but I cant see any 
reasonable argument to say that the damage to her porch is covered by her insurance 
policy.
In the section setting out the buildings cover, the policy says that RSA will pay for physical 
damage cause by any one of a list of events (these are often called insured events). The list 
includes things like fire, vandalism, theft, subsidence and so on.
That list includes two types of event which might conceivably be relevant to the damage in 
Ms Hs porch. These are storm or flood and accidental damage. 
I dont think anyone is suggesting the damage to Ms Hs porch was caused by a storm or 
flood. There was no such event in Ms Hs area in the period before the claim was made.
In addition, the policy says that damage wont be covered if its caused by:
poor or faulty design, workmanship or material.
The surveyors report in this case says that the porch was built on foundations which were 
not high enough, it has no damp proof course and theres no damp proof membrane under 
the floor. Water is effectively seeping into the porch from the ground beneath, with nothing to 
prevent the ingress.
The policy also says that accidental damage is a sudden, unexpected event. There doesnt 
appear to be any such event or incident in this case. The water was discovered when Mrs H 
asked builders who were carrying out work elsewhere in the property to put down new 
flooring in the porch.
In any case, the policy says that accidental damage isnt covered if its caused by water 
entering the home other than by storm or flood. Or of its caused by poor or faulty design, 
workmanship or materials.
Theres also a general conditions and exclusions section at the end of the policy, which 
makes it clear that the policy does not cover either wear and tear (including things that 
happen gradually) or defective construction or design.
All of those policy terms are set out very clearly and theyre not hidden in the small print. Nor 
are they inherently unfair or unreasonable. Insurance policies are generally there to cover us 
when we suffer unfortunate or unforeseen accidents. Theyre generally not there to allow us 
to replace things that are worn out or were defective from the start.
RSA have based their decision to decline this claim on an expert report from an independent 
surveyor which says the problems Ms H is having with her porch are due to the fact it was 
originally built without sufficient foundations or a damp proof course or a damp proof 
membrane. I cant say thats unfair or unreasonable in any way.
Ms H has said the porch was there when she bought the house and the survey she had 
carried out beforehand didnt pick up these problems. Im afraid thats not something RSA 
are responsible for. I dont think it would be fair to ask them to repair or replace a poorly built 
porch because the defects werent picked up more than twenty years ago by a surveyor 
appointed by Ms H.
Ill turn to Ms Hs other complaint points now.
We dont have a recording of the call Ms H initially made to RSA to make the claim. Ms H 
says she was told the claim would be paid. I cant say what happened on that call. I suspect Ms H may have been stressed and upset 
by the situation. I suspect the call-handler may have wanted to be sympathetic and 
reassuring. You can see how, in that situation, there may have been a misunderstanding, 
which was no-ones fault.
Its very unlikely the call-handler would have said the claim would be paid. For one thing, 
they wouldnt be entitled to make that judgement - and they would know that. For another, 
one of the outcomes of the call was that RSA would arrange for a surveyor to assess the 
damage. I think that probably should have indicated to Ms H that the claim wasnt settled as 
yet, and that RSA needed to go through further steps before they decided what to do.
So, on balance, I dont think Ms H was told the claim would be paid. Even if she had been, I 
dont think that means RSA should pay the claim now. If incorrect information had been 
given in error, Ms H should be compensated because her expectations had been wrongly 
raised and then disappointed. But I dont think it would be fair to ask RSA to settle the claim 
on the basis of an error by one of their call-handlers.
Its also impossible for me to know exactly what happened when the surveyor was making 
the appointment with Ms H or at the inspection visit itself.
As for the appointment time, I know Ms H couldnt make the first time that was offered. It 
seems the surveyor tried to contact Ms H several times to re-arrange. And when they did 
speak, the appointment was set for 15 April 2021  nine days after the claim was made and 
within a few days of the original suggested date. 
The delay appears to have been the result of the busy schedules of both the surveyor and 
Ms H. Thats neither the surveyors nor Ms Hs fault. And in any case, the delay was 
extremely short. As I say, the inspection took place nine days after the claim was made, 
which isnt unreasonable.
When the survey took place, Ms H objected to the surveyor asking to look down onto the 
porch roof from one of her bedrooms. I dont think that was an unreasonable request, 
although I understand why Ms H declined it. As it happened, the surveyor was able to 
inspect the porch roof from some ladders which Ms H provided.
RSA fed back to the survey company that Ms H had found the surveyor rude and abrupt. 
And that she had to ask him repeatedly to maintain the distance between them. In my view, 
that was a reasonable response to Ms Hs complaint on this point. RSA have made the point 
that only the survey company can know whether this fits into a pattern and whether and how 
they might advise the individual surveyor.
Ms H also said the surveyor damaged her floor when carrying out the inspection. Again, I 
cant know precisely what happened. What I can say is that the photograph Ms H provided 
appears to show a floor which is extensively cracked. Its also water-damaged and I dont 
think theres any dispute that it needs replacing. And Ms Hs builders had already been trying 
to work on the floor when they discovered the water ingress. 
So, I cant in all fairness conclude that the surveyor caused damage to a floor which was in 
good order and could otherwise have been retained and used without repair or replacement, 
were it not for the damage he (allegedly) caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman