DRN-3006220
The complaint
Mr C complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited avoided his home 
insurance policy and refused to pay the claim he made for theft at his property.
What happened
Mr C took out a home insurance policy with LV through a price comparison website in 
November 2019. The start date of the policy was 5 January 2020, but Mr Cs purchase of the 
property didnt complete until March 2020.
In April 2020 Mr C made a claim for theft from the property which happened in March 2020. 
During the claim investigations, LV established that Mr C and his family hadnt been living in 
the property at the time of the theft as it was undergoing significant renovations.
LV said Mr C was specifically asked about occupancy of the property when he bought the 
policy. Based on the fact that the property had been left unoccupied for a significant length of 
time, LV said Mr C answered the question about occupancy of the property incorrectly. And 
it considered this to be a qualifying misrepresentation. Based on this, LV decided to avoid 
Mr Cs policy and returned his premiums. This meant it treated the policy as though it never 
existed from the point of avoidance and refused to deal with Mr Cs claim.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt think it should be upheld. He 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. But he didnt think this was deliberate 
or reckless. He believed it was careless. He said this entitled LV to avoid Mr Cs policy and 
decline his claim.
Mr C doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
says the property wasnt unoccupied as it was still lived in by the seller until the completion 
date. He also says that the COVID pandemic should supersede any policy exclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has brought his complaint to our service through a representative. For ease of 
reference, Ill only refer to Mr C by name in this decision, even when referring to evidence or 
arguments put forward by his representative. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
LV thinks Mr C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he took 
out the policy through a price comparison website. It says he was asked the following 
question and that he answered no.
Will the property be left unoccupied for 30 days or more at a time? 
Ive looked at the questions asked at the point of sale and at the answers Mr C gave. Having 
done so, I think Mr C was asked a clear question. Mr C answered no to the above question 
despite knowing that he hadnt yet completed the sale and so wouldnt be living in the 
property.  
Mr C has argued that the property wouldnt be unoccupied as the seller was to remain living 
there until completion of the sale. Ive thought about this. But whilst the property might not, 
technically, have been unoccupied at the time of the policy being taken out, the policy was 
taken out to provide cover during Mr Cs ownership of the property. So, it wasnt relevant that 
the seller lived there while they owned it. 
From what Ive seen, Mr C knew he hadnt yet completed the purchase of the property, so he 
knew he wouldnt be living in it immediately. And he knew he wouldnt be living in the 
property immediately after completion either, due to the renovations he intended to 
undertake. 
I also think the policy information provided to Mr C at the start was clear that the definition of 
occupied required the property to be being lived in by Mr C or a member of his family  
rather than by someone else, such as the seller. And I think its likely Mr C knew it wouldnt 
be occupied by him or a member of his family until after completion of the sale and the 
subsequent renovations. I say this because the items stolen indicate that the renovations 
were likely to be extensive, and because I can see that Mr Cs property ended up being 
unoccupied (as defined by the policy) for around six months from inception of the policy.
Based on the above, Im satisfied that Mr C failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he took out the policy. So, Ill now consider whether the 
misrepresentation he made is a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. To answer this 
question, I need to establish what LV would have done if Mr C hadnt made the 
misrepresentation.
LV has said that if Mr C had answered no to the unoccupancy question, its policy would not 
have appeared as an option for him on the price comparison website. It has also provided 
evidence in the form of its underwriting criteria which shows that it wouldnt have offered 
Mr C a policy if it had been made aware that the property would be unoccupied (by Mr C or a 
member of his family) for more than 60 days at a time. So, Im satisfied Mr Cs 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one.LV hasnt specifically said whether it believes Mr Cs misrepresentation was careless or if it 
was deliberate or reckless. But I can see that it has provided a refund of premiums. This 
means it has treated Mr Cs misrepresentation as careless. I dont think this decision is 
unfair, taking into account the circumstances of this case.
As Im satisfied Mr Cs misrepresentation should be treated as a careless misrepresentation, 
Ive looked at the actions LV can take in accordance with CIDRA. The remedies set out in 
CIDRA explain that for a careless misrepresentation, the insurer may avoid the policy 
providing it can show that but for the misrepresentation, it wouldnt have offered cover. It 
also needs to provide a refund of premiums. 
This is what LV has done in this case. Therefore, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im 
satisfied LV was entitled to avoid Mr Cs policy in accordance with CIDRA. And as this 
means that  in effect  his policy never existed; LV does not have to deal with his claim 
following the theft at his property. As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to 
misrepresentation cases, I think allowing LV to rely on it to avoid Mr Cs policy produces the 
fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Cs argument that the pandemic and subsequent lockdown 
were significant, unforeseeable events and so should supersede the policy terms. But I note 
that by the time of the first lockdown in March 2020, Mr Cs property had already been 
unoccupied, by him or a member of his family, for over 60 days. So, this argument doesnt 
change my conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman