DRN-3868489
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain HDI Global Specialty SE settled their landlords insurance claim 
unfairly.
HDIs been represented for the claim and complaint. For simplicity Ive referred to the 
agents actions as being those of HDI. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C claimed on their HDI landlords insurance policy for a range of damage and 
loss they felt had been caused by departing tenants. They had been quoted around £43,000 
for repairs. HDI paid £5,000 under malicious damage cover provided by the policy.
Mr and Mrs C complained about the settlement  and HDI failing to accommodate Mr Cs 
request, because of a disability, that it communicate with him verbally. In response, HDI said 
it considered much of the damage to be poor housekeeping rather than malicious damage  
including damage to carpets. It said it had paid out up to the policy limit for malicious 
damage - £5,000. It didnt agree to pay anything further. HDI apologised for using written 
communication  but said it had made phone calls once made aware of Mr Cs needs. 
Mr and Mrs C werent satisfied so came to this service. Since then, according to them, HDIs 
covered some water damage and damage to doors too. But they said some sheds they feel 
were stolen by the tenants, still hadnt be settled. Our investigator didnt recommend HDI 
cover the sheds. But she felt it had failed to make reasonable adjustments for Mr C. She felt 
this had caused him unnecessary distress. She recommended it pay him £400 
compensation in recognition. 
Mr and Mrs C agreed with the outcome. But as HDI didnt respond with an agreement to pay 
the compensation the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C said he agreed with the investigators outcome, so I havent considered the settlement 
aspect of the claim. Instead Ive focused on the compensation she recommended but HDI 
didnt respond to. 
Mr Cs explained the difficulty he had communicating with HDI. He says he explained to HDI 
the difficulty he had with written communication due to his disability  and that as a result he 
said phone calls would be preferable. He says despite that, HDI failed to make reasonable 
adjustments for him for some time.
Our investigator felt HDI had failed to make reasonable adjustments for Mr C. She felt £400 
would be a fair amount of compensation to recognise the unnecessary distress this had 
caused him. It does seem, from HDIs notes, that Mr C did raise the issue a few times before 
it made any adjustment for him. Having listened to his account of the impact of this on him 
(including confusion and frustration)  and with an absence of any counter arguments from 
HDI, I think £400 is a reasonable amount for it to pay him. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, HDI Global Specialty SE need to pay Mr and Mrs C £400 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman