DRN-3588426
Complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) closed his Basic Bank account. Hes said 
this was the third time in three years this has been done.
Background
In May 2021, Lloyds sent Mr K a letter confirming that it would be closing his account in two 
months. Lloyds also confirmed that it would be closing Mr Ks easy saver account at this 
stage too. Mr K complained about Lloyds actions. Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. As 
Mr K remained dissatisfied, Mr K referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ks concerns. She didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr K unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr K disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Lloyds acted unfairly towards Mr K 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr K, a bank is generally under no obligation to continue 
offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. Typically, as long as it provides 
reasonable notice it has no obligation to share its reasons for that decision either. That said, 
in this case, Mr K has been informed of the reason why his Basic account (as well as his 
easy saver account) was closed  namely Lloyds was unhappy with the conduct on Mr Ks 
Basic account. 
I know that Mr Ks account was a Basic account and closure is only permitted in certain 
circumstances  one of them involves the conduct of the account and the way it is being run. 
Furthermore, during the course of its investigations, Lloyds also discovered that Mr K had at 
least one other payment account in the United Kingdom, when the account was opened and 
had opened at least one other since. 
Lloyds has confirmed that it wouldnt have opened Mr Ks Basic account had it been 
disclosed that he had an existing payment account elsewhere at the time. Equally, both the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ks account as well as the regulations underpinning Basic bank 
accounts, permit Lloyds to close Mr Ks Basic account if he subsequently went on to open 
another payment account. So Im satisfied that Lloyds had sufficient grounds to close Mr Ks 
account and as such its decision to close Mr K Basic account (as well as his associated easy 
saver account) wasnt unfair in the circumstances.
I realise that Lloyds decision will have been very disappointing to Mr K and I can appreciate 
why the closure of his accounts will have caused him inconvenience. I also suspect that 
theres an element of disappointment that Lloyds wont reopen his Basic account when it has 
done so after past disputes. But despite all of this, Im simply not in a position to be able to 
tell Lloyds it has to continue offering Mr K a Basic account in circumstances where it appears 
to have legitimately decided hes not entitled to one with it.
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Lloyds has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr K and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr K. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell appreciate why Lloyds was entitled to close his account. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman