The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain that Pravin Modi trading as Stadium Investments (Stadium 
Investments) acted unfairly and unreasonably by taking money from their account without 
their consent, charging brokers fees, and not setting up a buildings insurance policy for their 
new property as agreed. They want the fees refunded and Stadium Investments to pay 
£7,150 for the cost of repairs to a chimney.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S wanted a residential mortgage to buy a property. Stadium Investments was 
their mortgage broker, and they said it took a debit of £819.20 from their account without 
their consent in December 2018 (they suspected to pay for building insurance as agreed, but 
there was no policy in place which left them to pay for repairs). Mr S and Mrs S were also 
unhappy with the fees charged by Stadium Investments of £2,000 in relation to a remortgage 
of their old residential property to be rented out; they said it suggested that they took a high 
interest loan which they weren't happy with and didn't accept (and got a normal mortgage 
elsewhere). They said that Stadium Investments wouldn't return their paperwork, apart from 
a marriage certificate.
Mr S and Mrs S complained to Stadium Investments. It said that building insurance was 
required when a mortgage was taken out, but it wasn't its responsibility to deal with it. 
Stadium Investments also said that the £819.20 taken was the buy to let remortgage fee for 
the offer not accepted, and denied receipt of £2,000. Mr and Mrs S provided evidence to this 
service that they did pay this sum into the personal bank account of the broker. Stadium 
Investments later said that the £2,000 fee was the broker's fee for the residential mortgage, 
and the £819.20 was a fee paid to a third party arranging a second mortgage over the buy to 
let property, which was agreed by Mr S and paid by him by bank transfer.
Mr S and Mrs S complained to us. The investigator's view was that Stadium Investments 
was at fault. It hadn't provided any evidence to explain why it had taken money out of Mr S 
and Mrs S's bank account or charged fees for a remortgage. She pointed out that the 
residential mortgage offer made no mention of Mr S and Mrs S paying fees to the broker, as 
is required, and said the £2,000 should be refunded with interest. The investigator also said 
that there was no evidence supporting Stadium Investments's position about the £819.20 or 
what the money was used for, so it should also be refunded with interest.
But the investigator said that the mortgage documents did confirm it was for Mr S and Mrs S 
to ensure buildings insurance was in place. She also didn't think the repairs would've been 
covered by any policy as it was common to exclude damage caused by the age of the 
property. The investigator said that Stadium Investments's failings had caused trouble and 
upset and compensation of £150 should be paid as a result.
Mr S and Mrs S disagreed and said the repair costs should be paid by Stadium Investments 
as the choice of insurance was taken away from them. Stadium Investments also disagreed 
DRN-1950307with the investigator's view and provided some evidence, but accepted the required 
information about the fees to be charged to consumers wasn't within the mortgage 
documents. 
When the investigator reviewed the evidence, she found that it didn't support what Stadium 
Investments was saying. For example, Stadium Investments had said that the money wasn't 
taken for a building insurance policy, but for a third party's fees. But the evidence it provided 
didn't mention a fee of £819.20 or £2000 and was from March 2019; it also showed that 
Stadium Investments had paid a third party £855 a few weeks earlier but it wasn't clear why. 
The investigator pointed out that the £819.20 had been taken about two months earlier and 
that Stadium Investments hadn't proved why the money was taken or why it was entitled to 
the £2,000 fee. She didn't change her view.
Stadium Investments then sent a copy of a fee agreement which it said Mr S and Mrs S 
entered into in June 2018 to pay it £1,995 to find them a residential mortgage within six 
months, and denied taking £819.20 without their consent. Mr S and Mrs S said that the 
£2,000 they paid in 2019 was nothing to do with this agreement and they'd paid the £1,995 
in cash. The investigator said that it was and Stadium Investments owed them £5 in respect 
of the broker fees, but didn't change the rest of her view. None of the parties agreed with the 
investigator.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
"I note that the evidence provided is very limited and in many regards unsatisfactory. For 
example, Stadium Investments accepts that the mortgage documents aren't an accurate 
reflection of the fees Mr S and Mrs S were expected to pay. I've had to consider what is 
more likely than not to have happened, despite the lack of evidence and conflicting 
information this service has received. Generally, Stadium Investments has not been a 
persuasive witness, given conflicting and contradictory answers and not providing evidence 
in a timely way.
The £819.20 taken in December 2018 and building insurance
Mr S and Mrs S said that this payment wasn't taken with their consent, but they believed it 
was to pay for a building insurance policy. The payment was taken around the time they 
bought their new residential property, which was to be covered by the policy. The terms and 
conditions of the mortgage required Mr S and Mrs S to have buildings insurance. The 
payment wasn't taken by bank transfer as Stadium Investments says, but using a debit card. 
This can be done in the absence of the card holder, so the payment method alone doesn't 
answer the question of consent or why the payment was taken.
There's little evidence that Stadium Investments was responsible for arranging buildings 
insurance, or said that it would do so, before me; all I have is Mr S and Mrs S account but 
theres nothing in writing, including emails, supporting this. Even Mr S and Mrs S say that the 
money was taken without their consent, so they couldn't have agreed to its use to buy a 
policy in that case. There's no letter or any document where Stadium Investments says he 
will deal with insurance, and it isn't the role of a mortgage broker to do so. The mortgage 
documents say that Mr S and Mrs S must ensure that there's building insurance in place. I 
can understand why Mr S and Mrs S upon noticing the money had been taken when they 
bought the property, and remembering that they needed insurance, might have concluded 
that the fee was related to this, but there's nothing other than timing to support such a 
finding.I can't find that Stadium Investments was responsible for arranging building insurance. And 
because of this, I dont need to make a finding on whether a building insurance policy 
would've covered the claim anyway as this was the responsibility of Mr S and Mrs S and 
they didnt arrange it.
So Ive gone on to consider the explanation from Stadium Investments about this fee. It says 
that it was taken to pay third party fees in relation to a remortgage of the buy to let property. 
But the fee was taken two months before Mr S signed an application form for this product. 
 And within that form there's no reference at all to a fee of £819.20 and the payment made 
by Stadium Investments to this third party totalled £855 and were made weeks before Mr S 
signed the form.
Stadium Investments hasn't persuaded me that the £819.20 was taken for the reason it 
claims.  And it hasn't shown why the fee was taken. Because of this, I dont have enough to 
say Mr S and Mrs S agreed to pay the fee. So  Stadium Investments should refund £819.20 
with 8% simple interest a year from the date it was taken to the date of refund.
The £2,000 fee
Brokers are required to tell consumers in advance about the fees which they intend to 
charge, what the fee covers, and to disclose that information so it's within the mortgage 
documentation, including the key facts illustration and the mortgage offer. Stadium 
Investments accepts that these documents dont explain that  it was going to charge a fee of 
£2,000 in respect of the residential mortgage application.
I see Stadium Investments after several months produced a written agreement from June 
2018 saying that Mr S and Mrs S would pay him £1,995 if he got them a mortgage within six 
months. Mr S and Mrs S haven't denied signing this agreement, but said they'd paid the fee 
in cash. Their point was that they thought the £2,000 paid in 2019 was in relation to the 
broker's fees for the remortgage of the buy to let property, and they weren't offered an 
appropriate product by Stadium Investments. Mr S and Mrs S provided no evidence of the 
cash payment.
I have several concerns about this issue. The fee isn't set out in the residential mortgage 
documentation as required by the regulator. In fact, the mortgage offer just says Stadium 
Investments will share in a £765.85 payment from the lender. The mortgage product is a 
normal high street product. And I note that the £2,000 payment was made in two payments 
of £1,000 in January and February 2019 to an account in the personal name of the broker 
involved, not that of his business. No explanation has been given why the fee, if it related to 
the residential mortgage, would be paid months after this mortgage had been completed and 
when the remortgage of a different property was being dealt with. 
I am not satisfied that the written agreement provided by Stadium Investments relates to the 
£2,000 it received the following year. The fee wasnt set out within the residential mortgage 
documents and even the buy to let mortgage documents doesn't explain why £2,000 has 
been charged. I have already explained that I havent found Stadium Investments to be a 
persuasive witness and why, and Im not able to place much weight on its explanations as a 
result. I note that the application was for high interest lending, not a normal buy to let 
mortgage product, which is consistent with Mr S and Mrs S account of events.
Based on everything I have, Im not persuaded Mr S and Mrs S did agree to pay a fee of 
£2,000 for their remortgage. So I think it's fair and reasonable for the £2,000 to be refunded 
with 8% simple interest from the date of receipt of the money by Stadium Investments until 
the date of refund.Compensation for trouble and upset
I note that Mr S and Mrs S complained about Stadium Investments' failure to return their 
documents, apart from a marriage certificate. Stadium Investments has never answered this 
point. I also bear in mind that Stadium Investments has been found to be at fault in relation 
to the monies it has received. It's clear from the emails of Mr S and Mrs S that this has 
caused them trouble and upset. I'm not going to award compensation connected to the 
failure to have buildings insurance as I haven't found Stadium Investments to be at fault for 
this.
Taking all the circumstances into account, I think £250 compensation for the trouble and 
upset suffered by Mr S and Mrs S is fair and reasonable, without including the stress caused 
by matters for which Stadium Investments was not at fault."
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr S and Mrs S said that they were willing to accept 
my view. Stadium Investments said it wanted to provide bank statements as evidence, 
though the investigator pointed out that there seemed to be no dispute that the money was 
taken. Stadium Investments was given a deadline to provide the evidence, and failed to do 
so.
Having reviewed the complaint again, I remain of the view that the findings set out in my 
provisional decision are fair and reasonable, and confirm it as my final decision. Stadium 
Investments was given an additional opportunity to submit evidence. I don't think bank 
statements would've assisted me significantly as these documents wouldn't answer the 
central question of why the monies were paid by Mr S and Mrs S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Pravin Modi should pay Mr S and Mrs S 
£819.20 and £2,000, together with interest as outlined above, and a further £250 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by his failings. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to accept or reject my 
decision before 22 July 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman