DRN-3724629
The complaint
Mr I complains John Lewis Financial Services Limited unfairly reported missed payments to
the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs).
What happened
I issued a provisional decision. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I had a loan with John Lewis. To maintain the loan Mr I needed to pay John Lewis 
about £140 each month for the term of the loan. Missed payments would be reported 
to the CRAs. This is how loans generally work and the onus is on the borrower to 
ensure payments are made in full and on time. When a borrower is in financial 
difficulties the lender has a responsibility to treat them with forbearance and due 
consideration - in other words, fairly.
In 2020 Mr Is income was impacted by the pandemic. He asked for a Covid-related 
payment deferral. This was agreed for May, June and July 2020. A payment deferral 
meant no payments were required, his credit file wouldnt be adversely impacted, and 
the accumulated arrears would be dealt with at the end. I find John Lewis treated Mr I 
fairly here  he asked for temporary support, and he got it.
A payment was due in August 2020. This payment wasnt made. Mr I suggests this 
was because of an error on the part of John Lewis with his direct debit. Im not 
persuaded thats the case as the evidence available to me suggests it had been 
cancelled at Mr Is bank. In any case, John Lewis asked Mr I to make the payment 
manually. He didnt do this in August 2020, and as set out above, the onus was on 
Mr I to make the payment regardless of the method.
In early September 2020 Mr I called John Lewis because hed received a missed 
payment letter. He was told he needed to make the August 2020 payment. Mr I was 
concerned he wouldnt be able to afford the August and the September 2020 
payments. John Lewis took the August 2020 payment and explained he would need 
to apply for a payment deferral extension online, or complete an income and 
expenditure exercise over the phone. I find John Lewis could have been more 
proactive here in determining Mr Is long-term support needs.
In October 2020, following the September 2020 payment not being taken by direct 
debit  seemingly for the same reason as the August 2020 payment  Mr I called 
John Lewis. It paid him £80 to recognise the problems he was experiencing and 
agreed to remove adverse information reported to the CRAs in August and 
September 2020. It also agreed to consider a payment deferral extension. I find 
John Lewis treated Mr I fairly here. I say this because I dont consider John Lewis 
was responsible for Mr Is missed payments, and I consider the change to his credit 
file was beneficial to Mr I.
John Lewis didnt agree to extend the payment deferral. Theres some dispute about
whether this was in line with guidance issued by the regulator, the Financial Conduct
Authority. I dont, however, find this makes a material difference. I say this because a
payment deferral extension would have been a short-term measure and would only 
have helped with payments due in September, October and November 2020. 
Unfortunately, Mr Is finances didnt return to normal until after hed started work 
around April 2021. 
In the event, rather than agree a payment deferral extension, John Lewis agreed to a 
Long Term No Affordability Plan because Mr I had a negative disposable income. 
This meant Mr I didnt need to make any payments for six months, meaning no 
payment was due until May 2021. I find this was a fair and reasonable action for 
John Lewis to take - Mr I couldnt afford to make payments, and this meant he didnt 
have to.
In May 2021 John Lewis checked Mr I could afford to make payments again and 
found he could, so it agreed if he made the following three payments it would re-age 
the account  this would mean bringing the arrears back into the balance and 
extending the loan term, bringing the loan back on track. I find this was fair and 
reasonable too as it meant once Mr I had demonstrated he was able to manage the 
loan, things would be more or less back to normal.
Payments werent made in May or June 2021. Mr I suggests this was because of an 
issue with his direct debit, for which John Lewis was at fault. Again, the evidence Ive 
seen suggests it was a problem at Mr Is banks end. Regardless, Mr I knew 
payments were needed, knew there had previously been direct debit issues, ought 
reasonably to have known to be on the lookout for further issues, known the direct 
debits had failed, and therefore made manual payments.
In July 2021 the loan was re-aged, seemingly with the missed May and June 2021 
payments also moved into the balance, and the direct debit started taking payments 
successfully. The loan, therefore, has been back on track since July 2021. Further, 
John Lewis paid Mr I another £75 to apologise for one of its advisors not sounding 
too confident on a call.
Mr I remains dissatisfied because of the impact this matter has had on his credit file. 
Ive reviewed his credit file and it shows missed payments in August and September 
2020, and May, June and July 2021. In light of my findings above I dont think this is 
quite right. I therefore intend to require John Lewis to remove adverse information 
from Mr Is credit file for August and September 2020, and July 2021.
Overall, I find John Lewis supported Mr I through a difficult time and while I consider 
a change to his credit file necessary, I dont consider further compensation 
appropriate.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require John Lewis Financial Services Limited to
remove adverse information from Mr Is credit file for August and September 2020, 
and July 2021.
John Lewis accepted my provisional decision. Mr I responded to say he had been told by his 
bank the direct debit was in place and John Lewis didnt claim it, and that he was told in a 
call not to make a manual payment. He also said the missed payments John Lewis recorded 
on his credit file led to him needing to pay a mortgage broker about £2,000 to secure him a mortgage, and the interest rate on that mortgage was higher than it would have been. Mr I 
considers more compensation appropriate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to require John Lewis to pay Mr I more compensation. Ill 
explain why.
Im still not persuaded John Lewis was at fault for Mr Is direct debit issues. But even if I 
were, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, the onus was still on Mr I to make 
payments.
Its unclear to me when Mr I says John Lewis told him not to make a manual payment, but I 
find it was most likely, it if it was said, it was said in one of his calls with John Lewis in late 
2020. As Im going to require John Lewis to amend his credit file for that period it doesnt 
change matters.
While I accept Mr I had some difficulties obtaining a mortgage, I cant reasonably hold 
John Lewis responsible. Missed payments on a credit file are a relevant consideration for 
lenders, but Im not satisfied from the evidence available to me Mr Is problem stemmed 
solely from the three missed payments Im going to require John Lewis to remove. Key 
reasons for this are:
- As my provisional decision set out, two of the missed payments should stand;
- There were long periods where Mr Is loan received no payments and the balance 
didnt reduce  something a lender would most likely take note of; and 
- Mortgage applications are based on a full understanding of the borrowers 
circumstances. I therefore cant rule out the possibility of other factors, unrelated to 
John Lewis actions, being relevant to lenders considerations. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require John Lewis Financial Services Limited to remove adverse 
information from Mr Is credit file for August and September 2020, and July 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman