DRN-2750307
The complaint
Mr F complains about the value Advantage Insurance Company Limited offered in 
settlement of his claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F was involved in an accident and he made a claim on his policy. Advantage deemed the 
car a total loss and initially valued it at £4,904.17, they later increased their offer to £5,580 
after deducting £90 for pre-accident damage. M F rejected their offer, so Advantage 
removed the £90 deduction and made a final offer £5,670.
Mr F didnt agree and says he bought the car seven days prior to the incident and feels a fair 
offer would be the amount he paid when he bought it. He says Advantage hasnt considered 
the additional features his car had, specifically its satellite navigation equipment. 
Advantage said they used two valuation guides to determine the market value of Mr Fs car 
and offered him the higher value of the two guides they looked at. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint and felt Advantages valuation was fair. 
As Mr F didnt accept our investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached. 
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the vehicle 
fairly. Under the terms of Mr Fs policy, Advantage must pay him the market value of the car, 
less his excess.
In the terms and conditions of the policy, market value is defined as:
The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may not necessarily be 
the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your Insurer may use 
publications such as Glass's Guide to assess the Market Value...
Mr F says he bought his car seven days prior the accident, but I dont think that means 
Advantage need to pay him what he paid for it. This is because, the policy only requires 
Advantage to pay the cars market value immediately before the loss. And, while I appreciate 
Mr F may have paid more than Advantage have valued the car for, I dont think that means 
what he paid was the cars market value. Sometimes a car may be bought for more or less 
than its market value. So, the issue for me to decide is whether Advantage has treated Mr F 
fairly when valuing his car. I think they have, and Ill explain why.
Its standard practice for the industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated 
market value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does so, as the valuation the guides 
give are based on national research on likely selling prices of similar cars with similar age 
and mileage for sale at the time of loss. We also find theyre more reliable than individual 
adverts, which can be misleading as often vehicles arent sold at the advertised price once 
negotiations take place.
Occasionally, a vehicle may have optional extras added to it which increase its worth, but 
often we find these features dont add as much value as one might think and can also 
reduce in value over time. Mr F says his car included a satellite navigation system, he also 
mentioned an optional business package. From their searches, its not clear whether 
Advantage considered the optional extra features Mr F says his car had, but one of the 
guides they looked at showed the additional features he mentioned didnt have a 
depreciation value, so wouldnt increase its value even if they had considered them. Our 
investigator also used the valuation guides and found the satellite navigation didnt have 
much impact on the value placed on the car. Its not clear whether Mr F says his car had the 
business package separate to the satellite navigation system, so Ive considered both and 
carried out a further check and I dont find it had much impact on the value of Mr Fs car. 
The guides produce different values for a vehicle, so we usually find a fair valuation would 
fall somewhere between the range of figures they give. The guides weve looked at gave 
values of £5,670, £5,465 and £5,095. While some guides showed a small uplift in the value 
for the optional features, Advantages valuation of £5,670 is still the highest of the three 
valuations Ive seen, so I think theyve treated Mr F fairly. I know this will be disappointing to 
Mr F, but Im satisfied Advantage carried out a fair valuation of his car. For the reasons 
mentioned, I wont ask them to do any more than they already have.   
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman