DRN-3717182
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) blocked transactions on his account. 
He would like more  compensation than Barclays has already paid,  for the time and 
inconvenience caused.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr Bs frustration. He successfully made some large transactions, but 
then further ones were declined. Also, that his debit card was blocked. Barclays has 
explained that transactions are sometimes declined for fraud prevention reasons 
when the amounts or number of transactions are out of character for the account in 
question as was the case here. Fraud prevention measures protect both the 
consumer and the bank so if Barclays had cause for concern with Mr Bs transactions 
I cant say it was wrong to block these. Additionally, having looked at its terms and 
conditions I can see Barclays acted within these. 
Its unfortunate that Mr B had to go into branch so the transactions could be 
authorised. It seems after this visit, Mr Bs debit card should have been unblocked, 
but wasnt . Barclays credited Mr Bs account with £100  as an apology and to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience caused. I think this was appropriate. Apart 
from the inconvenience ,Mr B has told us it was embarrassing to have card 
transactions declined.
I appreciate Mr B doesnt feel £100 Barclays has paid is sufficient. I have carefully 
considered Mr Bs comments. But I dont feel he has evidenced any particular loss or 
issue that lead me to feel more compensation is appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman