DRN-2306554
The complaint
Mr B complains Great Lakes Insurance SE have turned down a claim on his pet insurance 
policy.
Another company has been involved in this complaint, but as Great Lakes are responsible 
for it, Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Mr B took his pet to the vets in February 2020, and in March 2020 submitted a claim to 
Great Lakes asking them to pay for the treatment and medication his pet had received. They 
didnt agree to meet the claim, and explained theyd be turning it down because the claim 
was for something theyd class as a pre-existing condition.
Mr B asked how he could challenge this and was told if his vets were to send in more 
information the claim can be considered again. His vets did, and said the conditions werent 
pre-existing, but Great Lakes said they still thought they were and wouldnt meet the claim  
so Mr B complained.
Great Lakes replied to the complaint and said they defined a pre-existing condition as 
anything your pet has had treatment, medication or advice for during the 24 months before 
the policy starts. They went on to explain when they receive a claim, they ask for full 
medical history of the pet from the vets. Great Lakes said the medical history from the 
previous vets says on 10 July 2019, Mr Bs pet was seen due to a rash on her abdomen and 
itching her ears and paws. The vet said this could be allergies or mites. They said Mr Bs pet 
was seen again on 19 August 2019 for skin lesions  and these were within 24 months of the 
policy starting on 13 November 2019. Great Lakes added that the treatment for Mr Bs pet 
was on 22 February and 10 March 2020 (so within 24 months of the policy), for long term 
skin issues and currently scratching at her ears and face. Because Mr Bs pet was seen 
within 24 months for itchy skin and possible allergies, they deemed this a pre-existing 
condition and wouldnt meet the claim. They added theyd explained this to Mr Bs current 
vets when they got in touch.
Mr B didnt accept this and asked us to look into things as he didnt think the condition was 
pre-existing.
One of our investigators did so but felt Great Lakes had fairly turned down the claim. Mr B 
didnt agree and said our investigator hadnt properly considered the evidence from the vet. 
Because of this, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the information I have Mr B took out the policy online, answered yes when asked if 
hed taken his pet to the vets in the last 24 months, and then chose not to take out a policy 
which covered pre-existing conditions  instead taking out one that didnt. Mr Bs dispute is 
about whether the conditions noted by Great Lakes before the policy was taken out in 
November 2019 are pre-existing or not.
The policy terms define pre-existing condition as anything your pet had treatment, 
medication or advice for in the last 24 months and go on to say they wont pay anything 
towards claims for this.
The information recorded by the vets in July 2019, before Mr B took out the policy, say his 
pet was seen for itchy feet and abdomen, and that there was a rash on the abdomen  with 
a possible diagnosis of mites / allergies. The notes in August 2019 say skin lesions were 
discussed, and most probably coming up because Mr Bs pet was itchy. In both instances, 
advice seems to have been given, and medication used.
Mr B is claiming for the costs of his visits on 22 February 2020, and 10 March 2020. The 
February notes recorded by the vets say Recheck on ears  history  scratching at ears for 
a few weeks and making them sore and they say they discussed the possibility of mites. 
The March notes recorded by the vets say the ears are much better, scabs have come off 
and not itching as much  and long discussion regarding possible long term skin issues  or 
could be some mites hatching and causing a mild reaction
So, I can see why at this point Great Lakes would deem this a pre-existing condition. The set 
of notes from July / August 2019 do refer to the same issues  itchiness, rashes, scabs  as 
the second set of notes in February / March 2020 which Mr B is claiming for.
But Id also expect Great Lakes to reconsider the claim if further information was provided  
and they told Mr B to speak to the previous vets and see what they say. The vets got in 
touch and told Great Lakes Mr Bs pet was treated for a rash on her abdomen and a sore ear 
 no ear mites were identified, and she confirmed theyd not treated Mr Bs pet for suspect 
ear mites either. She added that the mites reference in the notes referred to possibilities of 
being a cause of her clinical symptoms at the time  rather than that being a diagnosis. She 
asked Great Lakes to reassess the claim.
Great Lakes replied to the vets, and clarified they werent turning down the claim for mites  
but that the notes recorded in July / August say itchiness and a rash was the cause of the 
visit. A discussion took place about possible treatment, and a skin scrape was discussed. As 
all of these were within 24 months of the policy being taken out, then there hasnt been 
24 months without treatment, medication or advice before the claim was made.
For the reasons Ive explained above, I agree with that. Overall then, Im satisfied Great 
Lakes have properly considered the claim, thought about the vets advice, and have acted 
fairly in turning down the claim in line with the policy conditions.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman