DRN-3432405
The complaint
Mr S, a director of E, a limited company, complains about a claim made on his legal 
expenses insurance policy. He feels that QBE UK Limited trading as QBE European 
Operations, are responsible for the cover he was provided with as the seller of that policy. 
In this decision I refer to the legal expenses insurance provider and underwriter 
interchangeably, but for the avoidance of doubt, they mean the same thing.
What happened
E took out a small business insurance policy with QBE. Mr S says E has taken out insurance 
with QBE for the last 25 years. Amongst other things, the cover provides legal expenses 
insurance cover.
E made a claim on that policy. The underwriter of it took on the claim. Mr S was however 
unhappy with how it had been handled. He made a separate complaint about that to this 
Service which was decided by another Ombudsman in December 2021.
The subject of this present complaint concerns Es dissatisfaction with QBE failing to provide 
him with adequate legal cover. Essentially Mr S feels that QBE are responsible for the 
problems E experienced in its legal expenses insurance complaint as E paid them the 
premium for this policy. As such he says QBE have a contractual obligation to provide cover 
and check the policy was fit for purpose. Mr S is also unhappy that QBE were aware of the 
difficulties E was experiencing with the legal expenses insurance provider but did nothing to 
help.
QBE considered the issues E was complaining about and concluded they werent 
responsible for them- they said the legal expenses insurance provider was. Because of this 
they declined to do anything more. Unhappy, E referred the matter to us. Our investigator 
considered Es complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. She also thought QBE 
wasnt responsible for the issues E was complaining about. Mr S doesnt agree so the matter 
has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Es complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy itself. It sets out that the legal expenses insurance element is 
underwritten by another insurance provider. That was the provider that accepted Es legal 
expenses insurance claim and the same one he complained about to this Service. I wont be 
addressing any of those issues because theyve already been determined by another 
Ombudsman at this Service.
What Im looking at is whether QBE did anything wrong in relation to Es specific complaints 
in this case. As the investigator explained, QBE isnt the provider of the legal expenses 
insurance element of the policy that was sold to E. It was sold by a broker, on behalf of QBE, 
so the premium was paid to QBE.
Mr S feels that this means QBE had a contractual obligation to provide E with legal 
expenses insurance cover. I think QBE did that by selling him legal expenses insurance 
cover. The cover was underwritten by another. That means any problems E had with the 
claim itself arent QBEs responsibility- rather they lie with the provider of that policy.
I appreciate why Mr S might think QBE are responsible for the legal expenses cover as a 
whole given E paid them the policy premium. Hes referenced the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 and said that this means QBE are responsible for the policy under English law. The 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 doesnt apply to this situation as E isnt an individual, its a limited 
liability company. But even if it was an individual, we wouldnt say that the seller of a policy is 
responsible for the underlying claims issues a policyholder has experienced just because it 
sold the policy. For that to happen wed also be looking at whether the seller is the 
underwriter of that policy. In this case QBE is not. That doesnt mean that we disregard the 
law when reaching our decisions. Rather we take the law into account. And although the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 isnt relevant to this complaint, its of note that it doesnt apply to 
contracts of insurance. 
Mr S has talked about the insurance not being fit for purpose and that QBE didnt do 
anything to help E when it knew E was having problems with its claim. As Mr S hasnt 
specifically raised a complaint about the sale of the policy with QBE, I havent addressed 
this. However, if he feels that the policy was mis-sold he can raise a separate complaint 
about that with QBE. For the purposes of this decision, Ive considered what QBEs 
obligations were in terms of making sure the policy was fit for purpose in the context of the 
complaint E has made. 
The cover provided by the legal expenses insurer was subject to its own policy terms and 
conditions. What Mr S was specifically unhappy about wasnt something in those terms. 
Rather it was about the insurers failure to confirm Es claim was covered under the policy 
within a reasonable time frame which led to Mr S having to represent E himself in civil 
proceedings and ultimately losing. Theres nothing that would come about in the sale of a 
policy that would mean a seller could ensure the problems E experienced wouldnt happen. 
Thats because the issues E experienced werent as a result of any specific policy terms. 
Rather they related to the conduct of the legal expenses insurance provider. So, I dont think 
QBE could have done anything to prevent this when selling the policy. As such I cant say 
they could have done anything more in respect of this.
Equally, I appreciate why Mr S might have wanted QBE to get involved and help E with the 
problems it was experiencing with its claim but as they werent the underwriter of that policy 
it had no power to do so and I wouldnt expect it to in the circumstances. 
I appreciate my findings will be disappointing for Mr S, but I hope Ive explained why I dont 
think QBE acted unfairly in response to Es complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Es complaint against QBE UK Limited trading as QBE European Operations. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman