DRN-3628216
The complaint
Mr G complains that ReAssure Limited caused unnecessary delays when processing an 
application to take his retirement benefits.
What happened
Mr G had a personal pension plan with ReAssure with a preferred retirement date of 
28 January 2021. On 3 December 2020 ReAssure wrote to him, setting out his options for 
taking his benefits.
Mr G contacted ReAssure on 4 December 2020 confirming he wanted to take his benefits in 
the form of an annuity. But he heard nothing more from ReAssure, so called them again on 
19 January 2021 and was told his request hadnt been actioned. He repeated his request 
and raised a formal complaint at the same time.
Mr G received the retirement pack, which he completed and returned via recorded delivery. 
It was received by ReAssure on 27 January 2021. He had been told it would take seven to 
ten working days from its receipt to set up his annuity payments. 
On 17 March 2021 Mr G again contacted ReAssure, and he was told his payments would 
commence by the end of the week. But no payment was received, so he called them again 
on 25 March 2021 and was told it would be another 10 working days before the first payment 
could be made. Mr G had not had a final response to his complaint either, so he contacted 
our Service.
On 12 April 2021, ReAssure sent Mr G its final response to his complaint. ReAssure 
acknowledged that it hadnt processed his application within its usual timescales which 
meant the income he shouldve received had been delayed. It said it had arranged for his 
annuity payments to be backdated to his chosen retirement date, 28 January 2021. 
ReAssure apologised for the delays and poor communication hed experienced and offered 
Mr G £178 compensation, which included £3 towards the interest lost on the annuity 
payments since January 2021.
But Mr G didnt think this was sufficient compensation. Our Investigator looked at the 
circumstances and agreed with Mr G. She thought ReAssure should pay Mr G a total of 
£750 to reflect the high level of stress and worry its initial error and subsequent delays 
caused him.
ReAssure responded by saying that it considered the £178 was fair and reasonable, as it 
had backdated Mr Gs annuity payments to his chosen retirement date, including interest. 
As ReAssure didnt agree Mr G asked for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman, 
so the matter has been referred to me for a final decision.
Having considered the complaint, I wanted to know more detail about how the delays had 
affected Mr G. As a result of what he told me I wrote to both him and ReAssure setting out 
my initial thoughts. In short, I didnt agree that £750 was fair and reasonable compensation 
in the circumstances. I thought £350 was a better reflection of the distress and 
inconvenience hed been caused.
I agreed I could see the annuity payments were the only regular income Mr G was going to 
receive in retirement, and he had to use some of his savings to cover essential outgoings 
during the delays. I accepted this must have been very worrying, especially when he was 
unable to get any clarity from ReAssure as to when his annuity payments would commence. 
But I could also see that Mr G was able to make his essential outgoing payments, and he did 
have some other ad hoc income and savings he was able to utilise. And it is likely that he 
ultimately knew that the annuity payments would be made, he just didnt know when. 
Mr G accepted my initial opinion that £350 compensation was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. ReAssure acknowledged my thoughts but didnt respond further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive already explained to both Mr G and ReAssure why I felt £350 was a fair amount of 
compensation when I wrote to them both. Ive summarised the reasons above.
Mr G accepted this outcome as a fair one. ReAssure didnt provide any further response to 
my initial thoughts. Because of this, I remain of the opinion that a total of £350 compensation 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances for the reasons Ive already explained.
Putting things right
To reflect the distress and inconvenience that Mr G was caused by ReAssures delays in 
setting up his annuity payments, I require it to pay him a total of £350 compensation (which 
includes the £175 and £3 interest if it has already been paid to him). 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require ReAssure Limited to pay Mr G a total of £350 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman