DRN-3457463
The complaint
Ms R wanted to remortgage her buy to let property with Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Birmingham Midshires Mortgages (BM). She complains that the free valuation that BM 
provided greatly undervalued her property, meaning she couldnt take out the mortgage.
What happened
Ms R wanted to move her mortgage on a buy to let (BTL) property she owns, to an interest 
only BTL mortgage with BM. She was hoping to release some equity when she did so. But 
she was very disappointed in the valuation, which was too low to let her go ahead with the 
mortgage. Ms R said she had purchased the property relatively recently, and couldnt 
understand how it could be worth less than she had paid for it. 
Ms R said that this was a quirky property, and she didnt think it had been valued properly. 
She was concerned that the valuer may have based the valuation on nearby properties 
which had fewer bedrooms, and no dedicated off street parking.
Ms R said that the valuer wouldnt respond to her concerns, because she wasnt its client. 
And BM simply said that there was no appeal against this valuation.
Ms R said shed had to stay with the same lender, which was costing her an extra £70 per 
month. She wanted BM to pay this, change its valuation so she could take out the mortgage 
she wanted, and to pay the redemption fee shed now have to pay her existing lender.
BM didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it does have to satisfy itself that any 
lending would be secured against a suitable property. It had used a survey company that 
was registered with the appropriate professional body, and it trusted the judgement of its 
appointed valuers and surveyors.
BM has also told us that the information it got about Ms Rs rental property was definitely not 
a valuation figure for marketing purposes  so not what BM would expect an estate agent to 
seek to sell the house for. Instead, it was a property risk assessment for the bank. 
BM explained that a property risk assessment is very different to a valuation for marketing 
purposes. The figures can be different, and BM said that sometimes it will even receive a 
property risk assessment of zero. That of course doesnt mean that the property being 
assessed is worth nothing, but it does mean that, for whatever reason, the property wouldnt 
be appropriate security for the bank to lend on. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that our service cant 
consider the actions of the surveyor in this case, only those of the mortgage lender. So shed 
looked at whether BM had acted fairly. Shed checked, and BM had hired a survey company 
which was covered by the appropriate professional body. She said it was reasonable for BM 
to appoint this surveyor. And she said it then followed its own policy in relying on that survey.
Ms R didnt agree. She wanted to see the survey, so our service forwarded this to her. She 
wanted to know why she couldnt have her own survey done. And Ms R said a soft credit 
search by BM had appeared on her credit file, which it shouldnt do if it wasnt offering her 
any lending. 
BM has said it uses one survey company, to keep a consistent approach across its lending, 
so Ms R couldnt arrange her own survey. And it thought that a soft search on Ms Rs credit 
file may have been carried out automatically when it retrieved the property risk assessment. 
But it said only she could see this, so it wouldnt affect any credit applications elsewhere. 
Our investigator still didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Because no agreement 
was reached, this complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator.
I understand that Ms R was very upset to find that the valuation that BM obtained is so much 
lower than she understands the current market value of her property to be. But BM has 
explained that the figure it has requested isnt an estate agents marketing valuation, rather 
its something for the bank to use for its own assessment of risk in lending. 
Ms R wants to question this valuation. Shes upset by what both BM and its surveyor have 
done. But our investigator has explained that we can only look at what BM has done here. 
Thats right. Survey companies dont fall within our remit, so I cant consider a complaint 
about the surveyor.
BM has explained that it uses one surveyor to keep a consistent approach. And I think it is 
reasonable for BM to prefer its own valuation, from its regular survey company, rather than 
to accept a valuation from a surveyor Ms R instructs. I also think BM acted reasonably in 
instructing a survey company which is a member of the appropriate professional body. 
Ms R expressed a number of concerns about whether the valuation had actually assessed 
her property. But having seen the valuation, it does appear to me that it is the property she 
described which has been assessed. So I think its reasonable for BM to rely on the 
professional opinion it has been given.
I realise that this leaves Ms R unable to remortgage with BM, but our service does usually 
say that decisions on whether to accept a lending risk are for the lender themselves to make. 
Thats what BM has done here, and I dont think its been unreasonable in the steps it has 
taken to reach that decision. So, although I do understand how disappointing this will be for 
Ms R, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
Ms R also expressed a concern that a soft search had appeared on her credit file, during the 
course of this complaint. I understand why she says BM shouldnt be accessing her credit 
file, when it has no intention of offering her any lending. But our service isnt the lead body 
on data protection. If Ms R has concerns generally about her data being accessed without 
her permission, she may wish to discuss this with the Information Commissioners Office. I 
can only look at the impact on Ms R of this. And, as BM has assured us that only Ms R can 
see this search, so it wont affect any decisions made by other lenders, I dont think BM has 
to pay Ms R compensation just because of this.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman