DRN-3354920
The complaint
Mr K has complained about AWP P&C ASs (AWP) handling of a claim on his mobile 
phone insurance policy.
Mr Ks policy is branded in the name of the manufacturer of his phone. The policy says 
that in order to make a claim he should contact the manufacturers representatives, 
which is what he did. But as AWP underwrites the policy it remains responsible for 
dealing with claims and responding to complaints about those. So, in this decision I will 
only refer to AWP, even where it was the manufacturers representative that took the 
action referred to.
What happened
Mr Ks phone needed repair. He says he was told it could be fixed the same day but when 
he visited the store he was told that wasnt the case and the repair would take around three 
weeks. Mr K said that as he is self-employed and has caring responsibilities he relies on his 
phone and couldnt afford to be without the use of it for that length of time. He complained. 
His phone was eventually repaired around 12 weeks after his initial visit to the store.
Mr K initially complained to us about the lender whod provided the finance for the phone and 
the insurance policy. But he later also complained to AWP. One of our investigators looked 
into it. She asked AWP for information in order to do so, but AWP didnt reply. So our 
investigator issued her assessment of the complaint based on the limited information Mr K 
had provided. She said that she didnt think AWP had handled the matter fairly and 
recommended it pay Mr K £100 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
AWP didnt reply to our investigator's assessment of the complaint so its been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. 
As AWP didnt ever provide a substantive reply to our requests for information, my decision 
is based on the limited evidence Mr K has given to us. From that I can see it was around 12 
weeks from when Mr K first asked AWP to repair his phone under the terms of the policy 
until it was successfully fixed, although my understanding is Mr K still had use of his phone 
during that period. 
I note Mr Ks policy doesn't give any guarantees about timeframes for repairs. But he was 
clearly very disappointed that it could not be fixed on the first visit to the store, and 12 weeks 
seems too long to have to wait for a repair. During that period Mr Ks told us he had to travel 
to visit a mobile phone store twice. I dont think that was fair. So to put things right, I think 
AWP should pay him £100 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience arising 
from the delays in handling his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require AWP P&C AS to pay Mr K 
£100 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman