DRN-3627637
The complaint
Mrs R had motor insurance underwritten by U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill 
Insurance (UKI). She complains about how UKI dealt with a claim on her policy.
What happened
Mrs Rs car was involved in an accident. UKI, on the advice of its engineer, decided the 
vehicle was beyond economical repair and would be dealt with as a total loss. UKI wrote to 
Mrs R saying it would pay her the market value of the car. The letter asked Mrs R to return 
the vehicle registration documents to the DVLA and UKI, and said:
"We have moved the vehicle to safe storage and we would like to dispose of it. We will 
contact you to make sure you have received your settlement payment and obtain your 
agreement to the disposal."
UKI then paid Mrs R what it considered to be the market value of the car. Mrs R returned the 
vehicle registration documents, transferring the ownership to UKI as requested.
Some months later, Mrs R contacted UKI to ask when she had to make a decision about 
what to do with the car. UKI told her it had already been disposed of as the car became its 
property once the claim was paid.
Mrs R wasnt happy with this and complained to UKI. UKI upheld her complaint, apologised 
and paid her £300 compensation. UKI accepted that Mrs R hadnt been told the correct 
process for buying back the car, and it hadnt followed the process set out in its letter. UKI 
also accepted that Mrs R had had a poor response to her initial enquiry asking when she 
had to decide about the car, and said it had given feedback to the relevant teams.
Mrs R wasnt happy with this response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
upheld her complaint. She said UKI had made mistakes in the way it dealt with Mrs Rs claim 
and should pay her a further £200 in recognition of the inconvenience and upset caused.
Neither UKI nor Mrs R agreed with the investigators suggestion, so the complaint has been 
passed to me. Mrs R wants to be compensated for her financial loss, which she says she is 
unable to quantify.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
On 15 June 2022 I issued a provisional decision. My provisional decision said:
I dont intend to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs Rs car insurance policy booklet said:
If your car is damaged, we have the option to:
Pay to repair the damage or repair the damage ourselves;
Replace what is lost or damaged, if this is more cost-effective than repairing it; or
Settle your claim by sending you a cheque or by bank transfer
If your car is uneconomical to repair (written off)[o]nce we settle your claim, your car will 
become our property and you must send us the registration document.
There is no mention of the policyholder being able to buy the car back, but this isnt unusual. 
We would usually expect an insurer to agree to a consumer keeping their car if asked. The 
insurer would then usually pay the policyholder the market value of the car less an amount 
for salvage. This is because the car, even if a total loss, will still have some value.
Mrs R returned the registration documents for the car and accepted the payment from UKI in 
settlement of her claim. According to her policy booklet this meant the car became UKIs 
property. UKI sent her a letter saying it would like to dispose of it. However, UKI also said it 
would contact her to obtain her agreement to the disposal and it didnt do so. 
Mrs R didnt contact UKI about the car until some months after it paid the claim and she had 
bought a new car. UKI says that before this she hadnt expressed any interest in keeping the 
car. There is no recording of the discussions Mrs R had with UKIs engineer and whether 
she said she wanted to keep the car, but the engineer recorded she had given authority for it 
to be disposed of.
UKI acted in accordance with the terms of Mrs Rs policy. However the letter it sent her did 
contain incorrect information. UKI has accepted that Mrs R wasnt told the correct process 
for buying the car back and that it didnt follow the process outlined in its letter either. Mrs R 
is unable to say by how much, if anything, she might be out of pocket. So I cant ask UKI to 
compensate her for this. UKI has paid Mrs R £300, which it says was to say sorry for the 
upset and worry caused. I think this was a fair and reasonable way to resolve her complaint 
in all the circumstances.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. So I wont be 
asking U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance to do anything.
Responses to my provisional decision
UKI didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mrs R said:
We are obviously very disappointed by the provisional decision. I would be grateful if the 
following important matters could be taken into account in any final decision. However, as a 
general reflection, the provisional decision feels very much as if we are being blamed for the 
failures of UK Insurance (UKI) and this is extremely concerning because on an examination 
of the facts of the case demonstrates that the opposite is true. 
Context and timescale of the claim 
The provisional decision states that we waited several months before contacting UKI about the car, after UKI paid the claim and we had bought a new car. It is important to see this 
timescale in the context of the claim as a whole. The accident occurred on 4 August 2021. 
The matter remains unresolved insofar as liability has yet to be established. So we are 
nearly 12 months from the accident and the matter is not resolved. This timescale is the 
context in which any of our actions must be seen when attributing them weight in your 
decision. 
When we first contacted UKI following the accident it was explained to as at some length, 
and on several further occasions, that because staff were working from home there would be 
considerable delays dealing with our claim, delays getting through on the telephone and 
delays replying to emails. 
Taking the above context into account, the various delays and the management of 
expectations in terms of timescale that UKI practised throughout this period, it did not occur 
to us at any point that we should be chasing the matter up, particularly as we had an 
assurance in writing that we would be contacted prior to the car being disposed of. 
It took more than two weeks to receive a settlement so that we could start the process of 
buying a new car and in that time we spent a significant sum on a hire car. Delay was and 
continues to be an inherent part of the process. 
We contacted UKI next on 5 November. This was a little over two months from their original 
settlement letter. In the context of the timescale of the overall claim, the delays we had 
experienced and the expectations we had been given about timescale throughout the 
process it is unreasonable in our view to arbitrarily decide that we should have followed-up 
the matter within a certain period or to attribute this weight in your decision, because it 
ignores the overall timescale of the claim and the level of expectation about timescale which 
we had been given by UKI. Furthermore, we consider that characterising a period of a little 
over two months as several months and again seemingly attributing this weight in the 
decision is unfair.  
The provisional decision states that we returned the registration documents for the car and 
accepted the payment from UKI in settlement of the claim. Again, the implication here is that 
we are at fault. We have already explained on several occasions how important it was to us 
to have a replacement car as soon as possible, so of course we accepted the settlement at 
the earliest opportunity. Clearly had we been told at any stage by UKI that to do this was to 
somehow absolve them of their commitment to contact us before disposing of our car, set 
out in the very same letter where the settlement was confirmed, then we would have acted 
differently. 
We are clear what we asked the engineer and were told clearly that we would be able to 
keep our car and we assumed, wrongly, that this conversation plus the written assurance we 
subsequently received was sufficient. UKI do not have a record of these conversations but 
again it feels very much as if we are being blamed for their failings. We did not record the 
conversations, because what reasonable person would think that that was a necessary 
course of action?
Finally and most importantly with regard to timescale, it is clear from correspondence that 
UKI waited an entirely arbitrary period of time before disposing of our vehicle, without 
seeking the agreement of ours that they had committed to. Had we, as the provisional 
decision implies we should have done, contacted UKI earlier, it does not seem like the 
outcome would have been any different because the vehicle would already have been 
disposed of. I am attaching correspondence not previously provided, in which UKI state that 
the vehicle was disposed of on 14 September  only 13 working days after committing to 
agreeing the disposal of the vehicle with us.  The implication of your provisional decision is that we basically waited too long to get back in 
touch with UKI to agree to keep our vehicle. However, it had actually been disposed of three 
weeks after their letter and therefore any delay on our part, perceived or otherwise, is 
academic, because the car has already been disposed of. 
The question then becomes; was it reasonable to write to us committing to seeking our 
agreement to dispose of the car to then, only three weeks later, dispose of the car without 
getting in touch with us or having heard from us?
Cost of repair
The provisional decision also appears to attribute weight to our inability to evidence by how 
much we are out of pocket. I believe this is unfair and unreasonable.  
We can provide you with evidence of the cost of the current value of the make, model and 
year of our car. We cannot provide you with evidence of how much it would have cost to 
repair because UKI disposed of the car without our agreement. It is unreasonable to expect 
us to be able provide such evidence because the actions of UKI have deprived us of the 
ability to do so. 
A simple search of the DVLA website reveals the car is now back on the road. So it was 
repaired and someone knows how much this cost, be that UKI or a third party. If the 
ombudsman considers this information material to the decision, and the provisional decision 
implies that it does, then it is information that is available to UKI and to the ombudsman. 
Precedent
If the provisional conclusion of this complaint becomes a formal decision of the ombudsman 
it sets a concerning precedent for the actions or lack of actions of large insurance companies 
and their impunity from consequence as a result. In this case UKI have committed in writing, 
to a course of action to one of their customers which they, as a matter of fact and their own 
admission, failed to carry out. 
I understand the general point that the policy wording is the definitive test of what UKI 
commit to do or not do. However, the implication is that they can commit to anything they like 
in associated correspondence but not be held accountable to that in any way.
In summary, we believe that the ombudsman has unreasonably sided with UKI in this case, 
in the face of the facts. And where matters are open to interpretation, they have sided with 
UKI on every matter, without evidence for doing so and arguably with evidence that suggests 
to the contrary. 
I have considered Mrs Rs comments very carefully. I want to reassure Mrs R that I have 
seen the letter she mentioned in her response. I agree with Mrs R that UKI made mistakes in 
dealing with her claim. But UKI has accepted its mistakes, apologised to Mrs R, and paid her 
£300 compensation. I think in all the circumstances this was a fair and reasonable way to 
resolve her complaint. So I wont be changing my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint. So I wont be asking U K 
Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance to do anything. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman