DRN-2599449
The complaint
Mr A complains that Hoist Finance UK Limiteds agents refuse to accept a settlement for a 
debt. 
What happened
Hoist acquired a debt in Mr As name from a credit card provider. Mr A has raised concerns 
about the amount of money the original lender said he owed when the account was closed. 
Hoist says the outstanding balance is around £1,470.
In December 2018 Mr A made Hoists agents an offer to settle the debt. Hoist said it would 
consider Mr As offer but asked him to complete an income and expenditure assessment. 
Hoist says that when customers offer a partial settlement, its process is to check the 
payment is affordable by looking at their income and outgoings. Hoists agents didnt receive 
a completed assessment from Mr A.
Mr A asked Hoists agents to tell him how to settle his debt on several occasions. Mr A 
complained and Hoists agents issued a final response in July 2020. The final response said 
the default Hoist reports will remain on Mr As credit file for six years from the date the 
original lender terminated the agreement. It also said Mr As settlement offer wasnt 
accepted as he hadnt completed an income and expenditure assessment. Hoists 
representatives said if Mr A wanted to make a settlement offer and return a completed 
assessment it would be reviewed. 
Mr A referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought Hoist had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Mr A didnt agree with the investigator, so his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has made several complaints about the debt Hoist has acquired. I understand Mr A 
feels the balance Hoist says he owes isnt accurate. But the balance is in line with the 
statement information provided by the original lender. I note the original lender and Hoist 
sent Mr A Notices of Assignment when the debt was sold, both of which confirm the same 
outstanding balance. Im satisfied that Hoists decision to request payment of the outstanding 
balance from Mr A is fair.
When Hoist acquired the debt, it took over responsibility for reporting it on Mr As credit file. 
Hoist has sent us copies of the default notices that were sent to Mr A which match the 
details it reports on his credit file. I havent found that Hoist has made a mistake or treated 
Mr A unfairly by reporting the status of his account. 
I can see Mr A is keen to settle the debt and has made a number of offers to Hoists agents. 
But Hoist has explained that when it considers settlement offers from customers it has to 
ensure the proposal is affordable. To do that, Hoist asks the customer to complete an 
income and expenditure assessment. 
I understand Mr A doesnt want to give Hoist that information, but I dont think its an 
unreasonable request for it to make. Hoist is free to decide how it operates and what 
information to request when considering settlements. And Hoist has told us its important to 
ensure lump sum repayments are affordable for the customer. Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, 
but I think Hoists request that he complete an income and expenditure assessment is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of his case. 
As Im satisfied Hoist has dealt with Mr As complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further 
action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman