DRN-3273115
The complaint
Mr L complains, via a representative, that Wellington Court Financial Services Limited 
(Wellington) gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his deferred benefits in an occupational 
pension scheme (OPS) into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). Causing him to lose 
valuable defined benefits.
What happened
Mr L had deferred benefits in an OPS that had been built up whilst working for Rolls Royce 
between 1978 and 2002. 
Mr L met with a representative of Wellington in January 2017 who carried out a fact-find with 
Mr L. At the time Mr L:
was 60 years of age;
was single with no dependent children;
owned 40% of the £120,000 flat he lived in;
earned around £21,000 a year; 
had £4,000 in savings;
had no outstanding debts.
Mr Ls OPS provided information for the deferred benefits in his scheme. He had deferred 
benefits of £4,724.22 a year at the date of leaving the OPS in 2002. The transfer pack 
explained that the pension was worth £8,171.68 a year at the time of the quote in June 2017. 
The benefit was revalued in line with an index which meant that it would continue to 
increase, until the pension was taken at the normal retirement age of 65. Which was in 
August 2021. The transfer pack offered a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
£196,074.97.
In August 2017, following a recommendation by Wellington, an application was completed 
for Mr L to open a SIPP. And in October a transfer was made to the SIPP of the CETV from 
Mr Ls deferred OPS. £10,518 was paid to Wellington in adviser fees, leaving £188,556 to be 
invested. 
Mr L put in place a lasting power of attorney, appointing two attorneys who could act on his 
behalf with his consent. One of Mr Ls attorneys, with Mr Ls consent appointed a legal 
representative to bring Mr Ls complaint against Wellington. Mr L signed a letter of authority 
authorising Wellington to correspond with his representatives.
A complaint was subsequently made to Wellington on Mr Ls behalf by his representatives. 
For ease of reading, I will merely refer to the complainant  Mr L. The complaint, in 
summary, was that Mr L had been given unsuitable advice to transfer from a defined benefit 
OPS to a SIPP.
Wellington chose not to respond to the complaint that was made. Instead Wellington 
questioned the validity of the complaint being brought via representatives. 
The complaint was brought to our service when Mr L had no answer to his complaint within 
the eight weeks Wellington had to respond. Our service asked Wellington for the information 
that it held on Mr Ls transfer so that we could look into the complaint. But Wellington refused 
to provide any information because it didnt agree that the complaint had been legitimately 
made by Mr L. 
I issued a jurisdiction decision explaining that the rules governing our service (DISP rules) 
allowed for a complaint to be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant (DISP 2.7.2). And 
explained why I was satisfied that meant that Mr Ls complaint was within our compulsory 
jurisdiction. Wellington were afforded a further opportunity to provide its views on the merits 
of the case and any supporting evidence.
Wellington responded with what it said was a draft final response letter to Mr Ls complaint 
that was never sent. In it, Wellington said, The conclusion to our findings is that we feel that 
your letter endeavours to throw mud at the wall in the hopes that some of it will stick. We feel 
that the complaint is wholly unsubstantiated, and we are at a loss as to find any justifiable 
point that needs to be defended. We therefore reject your complaint in full.
Our investigator looked into the circumstances of Mr Ls complaint and thought it should be 
upheld. And set out what he thought Wellington should do to put things right. Mr L accepted 
the investigators view. Wellington didnt agree. In its response it didnt outline what parts of 
the investigators view were disagreed with. Instead it questioned our approach to this case. 
It provided no further clarity on this although it has had the opportunity to do so.
As no resolution has been reached the case has been referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator, for similar reasons. I will explain 
why I dont think that the advice for Mr L to transfer was suitable.
But before I explain my reasons for upholding the complaint I will briefly mention the 
question of our jurisdiction. I explained in my earlier jurisdiction decision why Mr Ls 
complaint was one that our service could deal with. Ive seen that Wellington still disagree 
with that. But they have provided nothing that I consider to be new arguments or evidence 
that I hadnt considered previously. So Im still of the opinion that Mr L is an eligible 
complainant in his own right. And we are allowed under the DISP rules to consider a 
complaint brought by a representative on his behalf. Which is what has happened here. 
In reaching my decision I have considered all of the evidence that has been provided. 
Wellington have chosen to send us its opinion on Mr Ls complaint, but no documentation 
relating to its dealings with Mr L. Mr L however, provided us with: his testimony; copies of the 
SIPP application; Wellingtons fact-find document; the transfer analysis; and Wellingtons 
recommendation letter. Where evidence is incomplete, as is the case here, I have to decide 
on a balance of probability what most likely happened. 
Mr L met with Wellington in early 2017 while he was 60 years old. The pension transfer pack 
from his OPS wasnt sent until June 2017. So it seems likely that Mr L wasnt aware of the 
up to date value of his deferred OPS benefits or the CETV for that when he met with 
Wellington. So I would question the extent of Mr Ls interest in a pension transfer prior to his 
meeting with Wellington. The FCA explained to advisers that the starting point when advising clients whether to 
transfer from an OPS with defined benefits should be that it isnt suitable. At the time this 
advice was provided, the FCA rules (COBS 19.1.2R) required advisers to carry out transfer 
analysis for pension transfers like this. It put requirements into place for advisers, which 
included the need for transfer analysis to establish a fair comparison between benefits given 
up with the potential benefits following a transfer.
And I can see that Wellington had a transfer value analysis (TVAS) done for Mr L in August 
2017, just before he turned 61 years of age. His pension scheme had a retirement age of 65. 
The critical yield was 10.5% for a joint life annuity. Which meant that Mr M needed returns of 
10.5% a year until age 65 to be able to purchase an annuity equivalent to the benefits he 
already had. The TVAS also quoted a critical yield figure of 7.1% for a comparison against a 
single life annuity. This didnt provide benefits as valuable as those that Mr L had in his OPS. 
But given that he was single and had no dependants may have provided an interesting 
comparison for him. If he was likely to be able to better this level of returns following a 
transfer.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at 
retirement was 10.5% per year. This compares with the discount rate of 3.0% per year for 
four years to retirement in this case. Our investigator referred to a discount rate of 4.3%, but 
this was based on an error made in determining Mr Ls age as 50 at the point of advice. 
Based on these figures I think it was unlikely that Mr L would be able to see sufficient returns 
on his investments to be able to end up with a pension as good as the one he already had. 
And even considering the fact that he may have been prepared to trade the joint life benefit 
of his existing scheme for single life benefits, returns of 7.1% also seemed unachievable.
Mr L has provided a copy of a questionnaire that was completed for Wellington to assess his 
attitude to risk (ATR). From it, Wellington assessed Mr L to have a Medium High ATR. But 
the questionnaire flagged that the answers were inconsistent. Mr L had answered No to 
questions about previously being involved in investments. But in response to being asked to 
describe his investment experience, he answered somewhat experienced: I understand the 
basics but still want some things explained. Overall, I think that interpreting Mr L as having a 
Medium-High attitude to risk was unreasonable. He simply didnt evidence enough 
understanding or have enough investment history to fairly interpret his answers in that way. 
However, even based on an ATR of Medium-High, it was never realistic for Mr L to achieve 
returns in excess of the 7.1% a year needed to make his transfer financially viable.
Ive also considered Mr Ls capacity for loss for this pension. Wellington recorded that Mr L 
didnt need to access this money for ten years. But his fact-find documents that Mr L would 
probably retire at 67. Which was only six years off. Wellington assessed that Mr L could 
tolerate medium losses on any investment. It suggested that Mr L had other savings if he 
had a sudden need for cash so wouldnt need to use this investment. But Wellingtons fact-
find only identified that he had £4,000 in savings. Which wasnt a significant fund for 
emergencies. 
The documentation that Ive seen from the point of advice doesnt record details about Mr Ls 
other pension that he may have had from his current employment. If it had it may have provided a clearer picture on Mr Ls capacity for loss. The existence of another pension 
would have allowed for some capacity for loss. But given the level of guaranteed benefits 
being given up in order to make this investment, and the returns needed to get close to 
providing a similar level of benefits, Mr L didnt have an appropriate capacity for loss to make 
this transfer suitable.
Mr L has shared a copy of a suitability letter that Wellington sent him on 8 December 2017. 
By which stage the pension transfer had already taken place. I would ordinarily expect to see 
a written recommendation provided to a client before that recommendation was processed. 
So I cant say that Wellington gave Mr L a fair chance to carefully consider its 
recommendation on what was a significant decision regarding his pension. 
As Ive said, Wellington have provided no evidence to our service. So I have no records of 
calls or notes from meetings that led to Mr L transferring his benefits. The letter that 
Wellington sent to Mr L, in December 2017, started by apologising for taking so long to 
confirm the basis of its original discussion. And provided in writing the basis of its 
recommendation. So, in the absence of more contemporary evidence I have looked at this 
belated advice letter to understand why Wellington had considered it suitable for Mr L to 
transfer his pension. And whether its reasoning was suitable for Mr L.
Wellington identified Mr Ls objectives as;
feeling like his OPS funds could work harder for him
a need for around £1,200 a month in retirement
he liked the idea that his pension fund could pass to his nominated beneficiaries.
Taking these in turn, I dont agree that the first point is an objective. If it was true that Mr L 
felt that, then I would expect Wellington to have explained that his existing pension didnt 
have a fund and wasnt subject to investment returns. It should have explained that his 
benefits were guaranteed. And Wellington should have made it clear that its TVAS indicated 
that taking on the investment risk himself was in fact unlikely to produce more valuable 
benefits. But it didnt.
Identifying a target income in retirement was a reasonable way to understand Mr Ls 
objectives. Unfortunately, I cant see that the recommendation letter indicates that any real 
consideration was given to this at the time. Or whether Mr L was able to achieve this goal 
without taking any investment risk. The TVAS projected the OPS benefits to be worth £9,309 
a year at age 65. Which, with any additional pension from his current employment, was likely 
to mean that from State Retirement Age this objective was met without transferring.
It may have been likely that Mr L liked the idea of leaving a pension fund as death benefits. 
But I cant, on balance of probabilities, agree that this would have been an overwhelming 
consideration for him. He was single and had no dependants. And the extent to which any 
pension fund would be left for nominated beneficiaries would depend on the rate at which 
Mr L would draw income from it and how well the fund performed. His pension was, primarily 
to secure his financial security in retirement, and I dont agree that a wish for greater death 
benefits would have made this transfer suitable.
Taken as a whole, I think that the objectives that Wellington say that Mr L had didnt make a 
financially unviable transfer suitable.
There is no suggestion that Mr L had any interest in accessing his benefits ahead of his OPS 
retirement age. But even so, the OPS had options to access his benefits from age 50. Ive 
seen no evidence that Mr L had any need or intention of taking a larger tax free lump sum 
that might have made transferring suitable. Nor did he appear to need to access a higher level of income than his OPS allowed in the early stages of retirement that may have made 
pension flexibility suitable for him.
I also think that its worth commenting, as our investigator did, on statements that Wellington 
made regarding the financial security of OPSs. It appears that Wellington told Mr L, many 
people well remember the Maxwell pension scandal of the past, and the more recent BHS 
pension scandal which causes enormous alarm and disruption and takes considerable 
certainty away from deferred pensioners, and these issues should be considered in order to 
get a balanced view between the benefit structures of final salary scheme and personal 
pension arrangements. I think that a statement of this nature is alarmist. It was made, whilst 
referencing his former employer. Yet in a later, less prominent comment, Wellington noted, 
since the current funding status of the [OPS] appears to be healthy, the financial strength of 
the pension scheme is not a particular concern. 
I think undue weight and position was given to this in Wellingtons recommendation letter. 
Which gives me concern that it was also given unfair prominence as a reason for Mr L to 
transfer during meetings that it had with Mr L. In the absence of any actual evidence of 
concerns about funding issues for Mr Ls OPS, Wellington were wrong to place such 
emphasis on this point. And it added nothing to make its recommendation suitable for Mr L. 
But may have served to convince him that what he was being recommended was in his best 
interests. When it was not.
For the reasons that Ive given, I dont think that Wellingtons recommendation to Mr L was 
suitable. I think it should have recommended that Mr L retain his OPS benefits. If it had done 
that, I think that its likely that Mr L would have followed Wellingtons recommendation. Mr L 
would have remained in his OPS and most likely have taken his benefits at the normal 
retirement age of 65. So Wellington should do the following to put things right.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr L, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. Wellington must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ls acceptance of the decision.
Wellington may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ls contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ls SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ls pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr L as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr L within 90 days of the date 
Wellington receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must 
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Wellington to pay Mr L.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000 I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Wellington to pay Mr L the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require 
Wellington to pay Mr L any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Wellington to pay 
Mr L any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Wellington pays Mr L the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as set 
out above on this balance to be paid to Mr L.
If Mr L accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Wellington. My recommendation 
is not binding on Wellington. Further, its unlikely that Mr L can accept my decision and go to 
court to ask for the balance. Mr L may want to consider getting independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint.
I direct Wellington Financial Services Limited to compensate Mr L in the manner I have 
outlined under Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman