DRN-2187061
The complaint
Mr D says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr D bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
Barclays had to make Mr D aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before 
adding it to his card. Mr D applied for his card and PPI by post. Barclays has provided a 
copy of Mr Ds completed application form. On the form there is a separate section for PPI 
where the policy has been selected. This section could also have been left unticked if Mr D 
didnt want to take the policy. The application form has also been signed in agreement with 
the selections that were made on it. 
Mr D has explained that during a call with Barclays he was told he had to take the PPI in 
order to be accepted for the card, but without further evidence to support Mr Ds claim I am 
unable to find that he was advised he had to take the policy.
From the evidence available I think Barclays presented the PPI policy as optional and Mr D 
chose to take it.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make sure Mr D got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been. Mr D has told us he was entitled to generous sick pay when he took the policy, had 
savings, and could have relied on family to help make his repayments. But the PPI would 
have paid out in addition to Mr Ds sick pay and for longer than he would have received full 
pay. The policy would also have protected Mr Ds savings so they could be used towards 
any other essential expenses he may have had. While Mr Ds family would have wanted to 
help, their ability to would have been dependent on their circumstances at the time, which 
could have changed.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ds circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think
better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
My final decision
I dont uphold this this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman