DRN-3889510
The complaint
Mr M complains that EB Associates Group Limited (EBA) allowed a large portion of his 
pension investment portfolio to be transferred into cash without his permission. He feels this 
resulted in him losing out on investment growth.
Mr M would now like EBA to recompense him for the losses he believes hes incurred as a 
result of their action.
What happened
Mr M held a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with AJ Bell. The underlying monies 
within the SIPP were managed on a discretionary fund management (DFM) arrangement by 
Brewin Dolphin (BD). EBA were then responsible for providing the ongoing wealth planning 
advice to Mr M.
In December 2021, Mr M had a meeting with his adviser at EBA. At that meeting, it was 
agreed the portfolio would be altered with the aim of trying to reduce the ongoing charges 
and to sell the consumers gold holding with the monies then reinvested. The same day, 
EBA contacted BD and asked them to make the revisions.
When the alterations were made by BD, Mr M became alarmed at the large scale of the 
restructuring that was taking place. Mr M then tried to contact his adviser to understand why 
so much of his portfolio had been sold down to cash but was unable to reach him over the 
Christmas holiday season. Shortly afterwards, Mr M decided to formally complain to EBA. 
He said in summary:
He didnt expect half of his portfolio would be sold to achieve the objectives hed agreed 
to in the December 2021 meeting. Mr M felt had he been properly informed, he wouldnt 
have agreed to such a change. He wanted EBA to look into the impact of restoring the 
portfolio to its previous position.
After reviewing Mr Ms complaint, EBA concluded they were satisfied theyd done nothing 
wrong. They also said, in summary:
Whilst they accepted the rebalance appeared to be a big alteration, many of the funds 
purchased were of a similar nature to those that were previously sold. In addition, EBA 
said the overall portfolio strategy and positioning wasnt changed significantly.
EBA said their calculations showed Mr M was better off financially by £915 for the 
alterations having been made, compared to his previous portfolios make-up.
They went on to say that, as Mr M was seeking consultation on any alterations to his 
portfolio above £10,000 moving forward, they didnt believe a DFM was right for him. As 
such, they decided they wished to end their relationship with him as they didnt feel they 
were able to offer the service he needed.
Mr M was unhappy with EBAs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he repeated the same concerns that he set out to EBA. He also explained he was 
unhappy that, as BD werent prepared to deal directly with him, hes now had to move his 
monies elsewhere which has cost him money.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. She concluded that EBA 
hadnt treated Mr M unfairly and didnt think his complaint should be upheld. She also said in 
summary, that as Mr M was on a DFM mandate, BD didnt need his express consent to 
make revisions to his portfolio before asking him. In addition, she also explained that EBA 
had discussed Mr Ms views on his investments in the December meeting with him and that 
information was relayed to his DFM who took prompt action to facilitate Mr Ms wishes.
Mr M however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, he said he felt the 
alterations BD made were more in-depth than he anticipated. He also said he had always 
agreed that his adviser would discuss changes with him beforehand. He reiterated the fact 
that hed found it unacceptable he was unable to contact EBA during the holiday season to 
discuss the alterations. Our Investigator was not persuaded to change her view as she didnt 
believe Mr M had presented any new arguments shed not already considered or responded 
to already. Dissatisfied, Mr M then asked the Investigator to pass the case to an 
Ombudsman to review that outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Ive considered all the detailed submissions made by both parties, this decision 
focuses on the crux of the issue which reflects the informal nature of this service. I consider 
this to be whether it was reasonable for such a significant alteration to be made to Mr Ms 
portfolio, without having first consulted with him. Having done so, Im in agreement and for 
broadly the same reasons as our Investigator. Whilst I suspect Mr M will likely be 
disappointed, Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why below.
It isnt in dispute that in the 17 December 2021 meeting, EBA and Mr M discussed the 
composition of his existing portfolio. Ive looked at the notes provided by Mr M and EBAs 
records and both appear to agree upon the two key main actions: 
To sell the gold holdings.
To reduce the charges in the portfolio to help improve growth prospects. This would be 
achieved by purchasing UK and US equities.
Ahead of the 17 December 2021 meeting taking place, EBA had positioned those changes 
with Mr M (on 2 December 2021) by email. As a result, a sizeable part of Mr Ms portfolio 
was then sold which he says he didnt agree to. EBAs file note states the adviser queried 
whether Mr M would like to wait until the new year to make the revisions so he could speak 
with the BD fund manager. The same notes went onto explain Mr M was happy to proceed 
straight away but would be open to meeting with BD in the new year. The notes also explain 
Mr M was told that, whilst BD were happy to provide a written rationale to him of the trades 
they were making, as he was invested under a discretionary mandate they reminded him 
they could make the revisions without his pre-approval.Following that meeting, EBA emailed BD (on 17 December 2021) and set out what they 
thought had been agreed with Mr M. That was:
Sell down the gold holding and replace with an alternative.
Introducing direct holdings and/or passive exposure to help reduce the ongoing charge.
Provide Mr M with a regular summary of any changes.
BD replied on 20 December 2021 explaining theyd sold the gold and would look at adding 
individual UK and US equities.
EBA then emailed Mr M confirming the gold had been sold and once BD had made the 
changes to the UK/US equities, they would inform Mr M of the changes. Mr M responded to 
EBA the same day confirming his understanding of the various discussion points from the 
17 December 2021 meeting. Amongst other things he said, you advised that your analysis 
of comparing wealth managers indicates Brewin are good value and should be given a 
chance to implement the changes I have requested which we will review over the coming 3 
months or so. So, it seems to me Mr M was giving his consent to undertake the necessary 
portfolio revisions that EBA had mentioned in their email. Importantly, Mr M did not challenge 
EBAs understanding of what had been discussed.
BD then made the alterations to the investments and having reviewed his portfolio online, its 
at that point Mr M was surprised to see almost half of his portfolio had been sold down to 
cash, pending reinvestment. However, when Mr M tried to speak with EBA to understand 
what was happening, EBA werent able to answer his questions because they were on their 
Christmas holiday. Given the closeness to the Christmas holidays and in light of the fact 
EBA likely knew they werent going to be available, and given Mr M had explained he was 
happy for the alterations to be made and that he would meet with BD in the new year, I think 
it was reasonable for EBA to issue the instruction to BD to make the revisions promptly after 
the meeting.
As Ive already explained, Mr Ms monies were invested in BDs discretionary mandate. That 
means Mr M gave BD license to invest his monies in a manner that was aligned to his risk 
profile, subject to any restrictions he set. From what Ive seen, the only restrictions on the 
account were a preference for BD to avoid investing in China. In addition, on the original 
application form Mr M signed (dated 7 June 2019), he confirmed that he had set no 
preferences or limits on maximum holding sizes or instruments that should be excluded from 
his investment. And, it seems to me that BD have previously undertaken trades without first 
explaining them to Mr M and typically, only doing so afterwards. So, I see no reason why in 
this instance, either EBA or BD would feel the need to act any differently, regardless of the 
size of the alterations and particularly in light of Mr Ms email response to EBA stating he 
was happy for BD to implement the changes discussed in the 17 December meeting.
Whilst I do think having BD present at the 17 December meeting wouldve aided Mr Ms 
understanding of the size of the revisions being proposed, I think there were a number of 
previous times when meetings with BD had been offered but not taken up. Ive listened to 
the introductory telephone call Mr M had with our Investigator when he referred his complaint 
to this service. During the discussion he explained he wasnt happy that EBA had prevented 
him from having any dialogue with BD about his portfolio. However, I dont agree with Mr Ms 
contention on this point. I have seen evidence on file demonstrating EBA explained to Mr M 
their willingness to set up meetings between him and BD to discuss his portfolio on a 
number of occasions. However, Mr M wasnt able to commit to a date (although did agree to 
meet with them in the 2022 new year). Also, from what Ive seen, EBA always led the 
relationship with Mr M and acted as the conduit for his portfolio questions. And Ive seen evidence on file of EBA liaising in promptly with BD on a number of occasions when Mr M 
has raised questions about his portfolio.
In his complaint, Mr M also pointed out that BD had queried EBAs instruction from their 17 
December meeting. He went onto say that BD had questioned whether further discussions 
should take place with the customer before proceeding with the changes. Mr M felt that 
shouldve prompted EBA to speak to him again. However, I think given the nature and detail 
of the likely discussions that had already taken place between Mr M and EBA in the 
December meeting, I dont find it unreasonable they asked BD to continue with their 
instruction. I say that because EBA simply reiterated the strategy theyd already agreed with 
Mr M (an approach that had also already been raised with him ahead of the 17 December 
meeting in an email on 2 December).
I think its clear the arrangement Mr M had, where BD would provide Mr M with insight about 
the trades theyd undertaken, no longer meets with his needs. Whilst BD explained they 
were happy to provide that additional level of service post trade, Mr M now appears to want 
that insight prior to investments being made, stating he wants to pre-approve all trades of 
£10,000 and above. But the whole purpose of a DFM arrangement is to allow the fund 
manager the freedom and opportunity to act swiftly without having to justify every transaction 
or importantly, have the consumer validate their decisions beforehand. So, whilst I can see 
that EBA have checked on a number of occasions whether a DFM arrangement is still right 
for Mr M, it would now appear hes looking for a greater say in the decision-making process.
In respect of Mr Ms arrangement with EBA, from what Ive seen, Mr Ms service level 
agreement allowed for two annual meetings with them but, it appears he regularly contacted 
him seeking wider information on the rationale behind trades and to discuss performance (of 
which Mr M has explained he maintains a daily spreadsheet on). It therefore doesnt seem 
unreasonable to me that EBA have explained theyre unable to meet his needs as his 
adviser. I can well understand Mr Ms frustration at having to move to a new provider, but it 
is ultimately a commercial decision for EBA and BD if theyre unable to provide the level of 
service Mr M needs.
Summary
Im satisfied that its more likely than not the revisions to the portfolio were discussed in 
detail with Mr M who then agreed to the changes. I say that because when I consider the 
detailed interest Mr M evidently takes with the trades on his account, I find it unlikely the 
meeting in December did not include a detailed discussion about what investments were 
being switched in and out of the portfolio for Mr M to be satisfied and give his consent (as he 
did on 17 December email). In addition, Ive no reason to doubt EBAs records that state Mr 
M was given the option to defer making the changes until the new year, when he could 
speak directly with BD, which he chose (in his own words) to leave for three months to allow 
them time to perform. And given that the arrangement between EBA and BD no longer 
appeared to meet Mr Ms needs, I dont think it was unreasonable that EBA terminated the 
relationship with Mr M. So, for the reasons above, I am unable to support Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint and I will not be asking EB Associates Group Limited to take 
any further action.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman