DRN-3748611
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) dealt with 
a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in detail. In summary, Mr M was unfortunately involved in a car accident in      
November 2021. He reported the incident to LV and made a claim on the policy. 
Mr M provided LV with the details of the accident and his version of events. LV considered 
the information provided but decided to accept liability on behalf of Mr M. He wasnt happy 
with the outcome it reached so he complained to LV, as he didnt think it had fairly 
considered the independent evidence that was provided. 
LV considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. LV said it had considered the evidence 
provided on the accident and of the damage to the vehicle but ultimately it felt its decision to 
accept liability was right. 
Mr M didnt agree and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator concluded LV 
hadnt acted unfairly. He explained Mr Ms policy stated LV were entitled to settle a claim as 
it saw fit. And that it wasnt our services role to decide on liability, but to consider whether 
LV had fairly considered everything in reaching its decision. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators findings. He remained of the view that LV hadnt taken 
into account all the evidence. He felt the CCTV footage and other details provided by him 
clearly showed that he shouldnt be considered at fault for this accident. Because Mr M didnt 
agree the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to reassure Mr M and LV that although I may have only summarised the 
background and arguments above, I have considered everything I have been provided with 
in its entirety. 
It isnt my role to determine who was actually liable for the accident at the heart of this 
dispute; that would be a matter for a court of law. What Im deciding here is whether LV has 
acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy and whether it has dealt with 
the claim fairly. 
The starting point is the agreement between Mr M and LV  the policys terms and 
conditions. These include a provision that entitles LV to take over and deal with a claim in a 
policyholders name. Similar provisions are found in all motor insurance policies Ive seen 
and I dont find it unusual or surprising.
So under the terms of the policy LV can decide whether to defend a claim or settle it. That 
might mean it makes a decision Mr M disagrees with, as has happened here. But the terms 
and conditions of the policy allow LV to make such a decision.
I know Mr M feels the video footage supports his version of events. I have reviewed the 
video footage and I cant say LV has acted unfairly in coming to the conclusions it did. The 
footage shows Mr M turning right into the carriageway, as he does so you can see the third-
party vehicle coming into view on the footage; so I agree with LV that both vehicles are in the 
same shot. LV said it feels in this situation Mr M would have the greatest duty of care to 
ensure he entered the carriageway when it was safe to do so. It also considered the 50mph 
speed of the carriageway and has relied on its knowledge and experience of dealing with 
these types of claims. 
I note Mr M has raised a number of points including the speed the third party was travelling, 
the stopping distance and the point of collision. I can see, as I would expect, LV has 
considered these issues, but it didnt feel they made a difference to the conclusions it 
reached. 
Mr M was also unhappy that LV hadnt taken into account the witness statement provided by 
the garage that hed collected his vehicle from. But LV had the CCTV footage, and it seems 
to have relied on this as the most persuasive evidence. So, Im not persuaded LV was acting 
unfairly when it decided to accept liability for the claim based on all the information it had.  
I understand Mr M feels very strongly about this. And I know he believes the third-party to be 
totally at fault for what happened. But as Ive explained, it would be for a court of law to 
decide liability. What Ive looked at is whether LV has taken everything into account when 
deciding on his claim. Im satisfied it has. For that reason, I wont be asking LV to do 
anything further in relation to this matter. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman