DRN-4008274
The complaint
Mr S complains that Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans (Shelby) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr S took three loans. Here is a brief table.
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidTerm - 
monthsLoan 
amountMonthly 
repaymentTotal + int
1 23/02/21 26/02/21 3 £150 £78.31 £234.93
Nine month gap in lending
2 16/11/21 01/03/22 3 £100 £54.33 £162.99
3 02/03/22 o/s 3 £100 £49.68 £149.04
Mr S complained and received a detailed final response letter from Shelby explaining why it
did not uphold his complaint. Dissatisfied with that outcome Mr S referred his complaint to
the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our adjudicators reviewed it.
In his complaint form to us, Mr S explained this:
I was allowed several loans whilst I had other loans with large outstanding balances
which I had missed payments for. there was also significant gambling activity on my
accounts
Our adjudicator thought that the credit search details Shelby had obtained about Mr S before
lending loans 2 and 3 to him showed Mr S was in financial difficulties. And so, he thought
that these loans should not have been approved for Mr S. He did not have the same view
about loan 1  he considered that Shelby had not done anything wrong for that one.
Mr S seemed to agree with our adjudicator.
Shelby disagreed and gave extensive reasons why all of which I considered and I have 
reconsidered before issuing this decision. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide and I issued a provisional decision 
(duplicated here in smaller type) on 11 May 2023. 
The provisional decision dated 11 May 2023 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about this type of lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Shelby had to assess the lending to check if Mr S could afford to pay back the amounts hed
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to
the circumstances. Shelbys checks couldve taken into account a number of different things,
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ss income and
expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Shelby should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Consumer. These factors include:
Mr S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also suggestive 
of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr S.
I have reviewed Mr Ss circumstances and the lending relationship and I do not consider that
any of the above bullet points apply to Mr Ss situation. Mr S had a relatively good income
and the loans were for very low sums, over a short period and with a nine month gap in the
middle of the lending. This gap would have been a good indicator to Shelby that Mr S was
not reliant on its credit. Mr S did not borrow from Shelby enough times to build up a pattern
of coming back for loans shortly after repaying the previous ones.
Shelby was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay the loan  not just
whether he technically had enough money to make the repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr S was able to repay his
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised,
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ss complaint. And I plan not to uphold it.
Mr S has not disagreed with the outcome in relation to loan 1, and so as that appears to be
resolved I have not reviewed it in detail. After repaying it there was a nine month gap before
Mr S came back to ask Shelby for loan 2, so I do consider it to have been a one loan chain.
The new loan chain commenced with loan 2 and that means that I consider it reasonable
and fair for Shelby to have approached the loan application in such a way that relying on the
information Mr S gave to it about his financial circumstances would have been proportionate
and appropriate. So, treating Mr S as, effectively, a new customer would have been the
proportionate approach.
Loans 2 and 3 were for £100 only and so very modest sums.
For each loan Mr S had declared that he lived at home with his parents which would have
meant that he had relatively little (if any) household outgoings. And this status also means
that Mr S was not likely to be at immediate or serious risk of not being able to afford priority
bills such as rent, a mortgage or any utility bills.Mr Ss income was declared as being £1,650 each month from his full time employment. And
for these loan values (£100) and for the new loan chain (and therefore Mr S being treated as
a new customer), Id consider that relying on the information Mr S had given to Shelby would
have been enough.
In any event, Shelby did go further. It verified his income as being about right using a Credit
Reference Agency (CRA) verification tool. And it reviewed his payslip for loan 2. For loan 3 it
reduced his income to £1,500 a month and used that in its creditworthiness assessment.
Shelby used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data, together with the credit file information
to increase his monthly expenditure figure. Here is some of the information Shelby provided
us with in the format of a table for loans 2 and 3.
Loan Declared 
incomeDeclared 
expensesDisposable income 
using declared 
figuresShelbys reduced disposable 
income figure after using ONS & 
credit search data
2 £1,683 £410 £1,273 £437
3 £1,650 £500 £1,150 £570
The instalment amounts due to be paid to Shelby for loan 2 was just over £54 a month and
for loan 3 just under £50 a month. So even on the newly calculated figures, which
demonstrates to me that Shelby was exercising caution, the loans looked affordable.
Shelby went further and obtained a credit search. The headline information from that search
for loan 2 was that Mr S had total debt value across all accounts of £6,339 and had one
active short term loan account. He had a defaulted account with an £800 value from May
2021, and he had some arrears on a loan hed taken from another lender in June 2021.
Id not consider that information to be enough such that Shelby would have been prompted
to have declined the loan application for £100. And this is because the loan application was
for so small a sum that within the context of the information and financial picture, I do not
consider it would have been irresponsible to approve a £100 loan.
Shelby has been clear in its resistance to the adjudicators outcome and has pointed out that
while Mr S had one default within 12 months, by the time of loan 3, the credit check Shelby
completed confirmed that Mr S had satisfied this default, which demonstrated he could
manage his finances. And I agree.
There were no County Court Judgments (CCJs), insolvencies or any accounts on repayment
plans or in Debt Management status within the last 12 months. It also pointed out that the
debt on which there were arrears going back several months had a Q mark attached to it
which mean that having seen that it would have interpreted that as being Mr Ss being in the
process of disputing this account with the creditor.
I have revisited the details I have on the CRA search Shelby carried out and for loan 3 the
overall debt across all accounts had reduced significantly to around £4,580 and the
defaulted account had been settled. He did have arrears on that same loan from June 2021
but I have seen the Q marker.
The adjudicator mentioned in his view that Mr S had and was using his £3,000 overdraft but
my view is that this was not a part of his financial situation which ought to be considered too
significant in these circumstances. Mr S was not at his maximum of the overdraft limit when
he applied to Shelby for loan 3, was not exceeding it for loans 2 or 3, and had no adverse
entries relating to his bank account showing on the credit searches I have seen. 
So, the bank with which had had the overdraft was not at the stage where it had reported adversely
to the CRAs about that bank account. I do not consider that having and using an overdraft
facility ought to lead a potential lender to consider that approving a £100 loan was
irresponsible.Overall, I think that Shelby carried out checks which were more than what Id normally
consider proportionate for loans of £100 early on in a lending relationship. And having done
that, Id not expect it to have done more. Mr S has mentioned the gambling but as Mr S does
not appear to have informed Shelby about that, then I do not see that it would have known of
it. And Id not expect a lender to carry out a full financial review for a £100 loan, such that it
might have asked for and may have received any bank account statements. So, I consider it
unlikely Shelby would have seen any.
The lending decision would have accounted for some adverse information on Mr Ss credit
report as Shelby has explained  its used to seeing such entries as its a sub-prime lender.
And Id not describe Mr Ss credit report information to be so poor that these loans ought to
have been declined.
Overall, I do not consider that Shelby lent to Mr S irresponsibly. I plan not to uphold the
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S and Shelby were given a reply date deadline of 25 May 2023 and although Ive not 
received a response from Shelby Id not necessarily expect to in these circumstances. By 
that I mean that my provisional decision outcome was for a non-uphold of the complaint and 
so its not likely that Shelby has anything else to add. 
Mr S has responded and has sent to me more copies of his bank account statements and 
says: 
I do not agree, as can be seen I had [sic] with gambling problems significant 
overdrafts that were not being paid off. I also had further loans which I was unable to 
pay along [sic]
As Mr S has responded and sent some more evidence then, I have reviewed the complaint.
I repeat all my provisional findings here.
The core of my reasoning not to uphold Mr Ss complaint is that I consider Shelby carried out 
checks which were proportionate to the £100 loans he was applying for. And as such Id not 
have expected Shelby to have done more. It would not have seen Mr Ss bank statements 
as I would not have expected it to have seen them. Asking to see and then review those 
would have been disproportionate considering the lending relationship infancy, the loan 
sums and loan terms. 
The lending decision made by Shelby would have accounted for some adverse information 
on Mr Ss credit report as Shelby has explained  its used to seeing such entries as its a 
sub-prime lender.
And Id not describe Mr Ss credit report information to be so poor that these loans ought to
have been declined.
I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman