DRN-3008791
The complaint
Mr B complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly increased the 
cost of his pet insurance policy and wont allow him to upgrade the cover on the policy. 
References to RSA include all its agents.
What happened
Mr B bought a pet insurance policy, underwritten by RSA, in 2014. He made a claim on the 
policy in 2016 to pay for the removal of a cancerous lump from his dog and his premium then 
increased from just under £500 to over £800. Since then its increased every year. In 2020 
Mr Bs dog needed an operation on its hip which would cost about £7,000. He found out his 
policy covered him for a maximum of £7,500 per illness, which was for the whole of the dogs 
life and didnt renew each policy year as he said he was led to believe. He wanted RSA to 
upgrade his policy to whole of life cover so hed be covered for any post-operative issues or 
for another hip operation if needed. He also thought the increase in premiums was unfair 
and more costly than other insurers. So, he complained.
RSA said Mr B was ineligible for an upgrade because of the previous claim hed made. It 
said the premium increases were correct and in-line with their rating factors and how they 
perceive the risk of insuring Mr Bs dog. It explained the factors it took into account when 
assessing risk and pointed out that Mr Bs dog was 2 years old when he took out the policy 
and was now much older, so the risk had changed. But it recognised the increase in 
premiums may have come as a surprise and it offered to pay Mr B £400 to say sorry for the 
upset and inconvenience it had caused. Mr B didnt think that was fair and brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think RSA needed to do anything more. He found no error in the way 
RSA had calculated Mr Bs premiums. While he didnt think Mr B had all the information he 
needed when taking out the policy, he thought the £400 offered by RSA was a fair and 
reasonable way of compensating him for the trouble and upset this had caused him. 
Mr B didnt accept the investigators view so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The pet insurance market sells all sort of different types of pet policies. In general, the cost 
of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and the cost of medical 
treatment rises. Pet insurance policies also usually wont cover any medical conditions the 
pet had or had received treatment for when the policy was taken out. And policies which limit 
cover for each condition to 12 months wont cover ongoing or recurring medical conditions.
But some pet insurance policies, like the one Mr B took out, will continue to provide cover for 
conditions claimed for in previous policy years so that treatment for recurring illness or injury 
will be covered until the maximum benefit has been reached. Providing this level of cover is 
expensive so the yearly cost of these types of policies can go up significantly at renewal, 
particularly if a claim is made. And there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear to Mr B. Its accepted the 
information it gave Mr B about the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. And RSA 
has now offered to pay him £400 compensation for the trouble and upset hes been caused 
as a result of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances 
of Mr Bs complaint. Let me explain why.
I should start by saying that its not my role to tell businesses how they should operate. Its 
for RSA to decide how much it charges for the insurance cover it provides. And its also for 
RSA to decide if it wants to offer Mr B a different or upgraded policy. So, I cant say the cost 
of Mr Bs policy is too high, and I cant tell RSA to reduce his premium now or in the future. 
Mr Bs premium has increased significantly since he first took out the policy in 2014. But 
RSA has shown us how it calculated those premiums and Im satisfied its treated him no 
differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder in the same position. So, I 
dont think its treated him unfairly. 
And I cant say RSA has done anything wrong in deciding not to upgrade Mr Bs policy. RSA 
has said hes not eligible for an upgrade because hes made a claim previously. And 
unfortunately, previous claims will affect the policies an insurer offers, as it sees a pet with a 
claim as being more at risk of needing further treatment. RSA has explained why it wont 
upgrade Mr Bs policy and I think thats reasonable.
The thing RSA did wrong here was not give Mr B the information he needed when he took 
out the policy to understand he could end up in the position he now finds himself in. Due to 
the medical conditions his dog now has, he is unlikely to find cover for the treatment needed 
elsewhere. And I recognise the likely continuing increases in the premium in future years 
means he may not be able to afford to continue with the policy. I recognise that the situation 
has caused Mr B upset. And some of that upset could have been avoided if RSA had given 
Mr B clearer information about the policy he was buying at the outset. 
Mr Bs policy was sold on a non-advised basis which means RSA was under no duty to 
advise him which type of pet policy best suited his needs. That was for Mr B to decide for 
himself based on the information provided. But there was an obligation on RSA to provide 
clear, fair and not misleading information so he could make an informed choice about the 
insurance he was buying. I wouldnt expect RSA to have told Mr B exactly what his future 
premiums would be as they wouldnt have enough information to assess the future risk. But 
RSA would have known that the premium would be most likely to increase year on year, and 
as the pet gets older, these increases can be significant, particularly if a claim is made. If 
RSA had highlighted these issues at the time of sale, Mr B would have been able to make a 
more informed decision about the insurance he was buying.
In situations like this, where something has gone wrong, Ill look to see whats most likely to 
have happened had things gone the way they should have done, to see if the consumer has 
lost out. Mr B chose to take out pet insurance, so he wanted some type of cover for his dog. 
And, as he chose to take out a maximum benefit policy, he clearly had some interest in the 
greater level of cover it provided compared to some other policies. If Mr B hadnt taken out a 
maximum benefit policy, he would have either had no cover at all, and would have had to 
pay for all his pets treatment himself, or a reduced level of cover, where he would still have 
found himself in a situation where his pets conditions were no longer covered. So, I think its 
likely he would still have gone ahead with the maximum benefit policy, even if hed known the premium could increase significantly in the future.
But I do think better information about the policy would have meant that Mr B wasnt so 
surprised and upset when the cost increased significantly  instead this would have been 
something he was expecting to happen. The compensation RSA has offered recognises that 
better information about the longer-term costs of the policy could have avoided some of the 
trouble and upset Mr B has experienced. And I think it fairly compensates Mr B for that 
impact on him. 
Im sorry to hear about Mr Bs dog and the problems hes experienced but, for the reasons 
given, I dont think RSA needs to do anything more.
My final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has offered to pay Mr B £400 to settle the complaint and 
I think that amount is fair in all the circumstances. It should pay that amount to Mr B if it 
hasnt done so already.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman