DRN-1987723
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs R complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited mis-sold them a mortgage 
endowment policy in 1992.
Mr L is the lead complainant in this case so, for ease of reference, I will only refer to him 
throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr L was looking to buy a house in 1992. He says he wanted a repayment mortgage but that 
he was talked into taking an endowment policy by Aviva alongside an interest only 
mortgage. Mr L now claims that the endowment policy was mis-sold to him as he was not 
told that it was dependent on investment returns. He says he was told it would pay off his 
mortgage and provide him with a lump sum upon maturity, and says he was generally mis-
advised at the time.
Aviva say that Mr L stopped paying his premiums in 1995 and that they were eventually 
unable to trace him. As a result, his policy defaulted to a non-forfeiture loan in order to keep 
it in force for a further 12 months, at which point the policy eventually lapsed in 1996. Aviva 
were eventually able to trace Mr L in 2008 at which point they paid the value of the policy 
with interest up until the point it lapsed. However, due to the length of time that had passed, 
Aviva said they held very little documentation or information from the point of sale to be able 
to fairly determine whether it had been mis-sold. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint, as she did not consider there to be enough 
evidence to fairly determine the complaint. Mr L disagreed, so the matter has been passed 
to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, as there is not 
enough evidence available from the point of sale to substantiate Mr Ls allegation that the 
policy was mis-sold. 
I appreciate that Mr L does not think this is fair, because he says Aviva should have retained 
all of the necessary documentation. But Mr Ls policy lapsed in 1996, which is over 20 years 
ago, so it is not surprising that Aviva have very little information available, as a business 
cannot reasonably be expected to retain documentation for such a long period of time.
There is also the fact that the endowment policy was cancelled just a few years after it was 
taken out, due to Mr L failing to pay the premiums. So, in the circumstances, there is nothing 
to suggest that the policy would not have performed as promised in order to pay off Mr Ls 
mortgage upon maturity if he had continued to pay the premiums. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr L but, given the distinct lack of evidence in this case, Im not persuaded that the endowment policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman