DRN-4114068
The complaint
Mrs W is complaining about the amount Advantage Insurance Company Limited has paid to 
settle a claim on her car insurance policy. 
Mrs W has been largely represented by her husband in this complaint. But for ease of 
reference I shall refer to anything hes said as being said by Mrs W.
What happened
Mrs Ws car was damaged in an accident so she contacted Advantage to make a claim 
through her car insurance policy. Advantage declared the car a total loss so it said it would 
settle the claim by paying her the cars market value, less her excess of £395. It initial valued 
the car at £1,853. Mrs W didnt think that was a fair valuation, so Advantage reviewed this 
again and increased the value to £2,435. Mrs W still didnt think this was fair and highlighted 
that the popularity of her model of car made it more valuable.
Advantage still thought its valuation of the car was fair and highlighted that the cars MOT 
had expired and that it also had some pre-existing damage.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She said Advantage had assessed the case by 
reviewing market value guides, but she said it had only used two guides. However she said 
this Service has access to four guides and she thought Mrs W had lost out because 
Advantage hadnt used all the guides available. She thought Advantage should increase its 
valuation to £3,374. She also thought it should pay Mrs W £100 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.
Advantage partially agreed with the investigators opinion. It agreed that it should have used 
the four valuation guides, but it didnt think the investigator had applied them fairly. It also 
said the investigator hadnt taken into consideration the pre-accident condition of the car. 
And it thought a valuation of £2,891.48 was fairer. As Advantage didnt agree with the 
investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I initially wrote to both parties setting out that I intended to come to a slightly different 
conclusion and I said Advantage assessed the value of Mrs W's car by using two valuation 
guides which produced valuation figures of £2,810 (figure one) and £3,044 (figure two) 
respectively. However, this Service has also obtained valuations which produced valuation 
figures of £3,442 (figure three) and Autotrader £3,555 (figure four). I thought about whether 
all guides should be used or any discounted as being out of line. Figures three and four 
produce valuations within around £110 of each other, whereas the other two were £400 
below the upper and are also £200 different from each other. Further to this, I thought the 
adverts Advantage has provided of similar cars at the time support that a fair valuation of the 
car was between the upper valuations. So I thought figures one and two should be discarded 
and a fair base valuation is around £3,500.
However, I also acknowledged that Mrs W's car didn't have a valid MOT. Advantage 
deducted 10% from the car's market value and I thought that was fair  leaving a fair market 
value of £3,150. Finally, I also considered that Advantage had deducted around £200 for 
pre-accident damage. However, I said I haven't seen anything to show what this related to. 
But I said it also needed to be remembered that this was a 12 year old car that had travelled 
around 84,500 miles at the time of the accident. So I thought it was reasonable to expect a 
fair amount of wear and tear and some damage. In absence of anything to show that the 
damage in question was not commensurate with the age and mileage of the car, I said I 
intended to say that it wasn't fair to deduct anything for pre-accident damage.
I also said I intended to award Mrs W £100 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused her.
Advantage didnt agree with me for the following reasons:
It didnt agree that figures one and two should be disregarded. It understood that it is to 
disregard inconsistent guides which fall outside 10% of the average. It agreed that the 
figure one was out of line, but it said figure two was within 10% of the average so it didnt 
agree this should be discounted.
It didnt agree that adverts should be taken into account in assessing the value and 
thought to taken adverts into consideration would be contrary to this Services usual 
approach.
It said £200 was deducted to take into consideration multiple areas of damage including 
corrosion. 
Mrs W didnt think £100 was fair compensation when considering the amount of time and 
stress its cost her to put things right. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what all parties have said in response to my initial thoughts, but Ive come to 
the same conclusion. Ill now explain why.
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual car is. We look at 
whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the car fairly. Its 
standard practice for the industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated market 
value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does so. The valuation the guides give are 
based on the advertised prices of similar cars with similar age and mileage for sale at the 
time of loss.
Advantage doesnt believe its fair that I discarded two of the valuation guides and also 
doesnt think that I should have used adverts to justify this. I understand its point of view in 
this respect, but I still think my thought process is the fairest way to assess a fair valuation of 
Mrs Ws car. 
As I said above, its standard practice to primarily use valuation guides to assess a cars 
market value. But, where the guides provide a large range in value, it needs to be 
considered whether any of the guides are providing figures out of line with the others which 
would suggest theyre not a fair reflection of the potential value of the car. 
Essentially I think we have two sets of values in this case. Figures one and two give similar 
figures to each other and figures three and four give similar figures. But there is a difference 
of over £400 between the two respective sets of figures. I dont think its unreasonable, in 
these specific circumstances, to consider relevant adverts from that time to assess which of 
the two sets of figures are a more accurate reflection of the cars value at that time. And, as I said, the adverts support that figures three and four appear to give a fairer reflection of 
Mrs Ws cars market value. So I still think a base valuation of £3,500 is fair.
Neither party made any comments regarding the 10% deduction for the car not having an 
MOT. So Im not going to comment any further on this. However, Advantage has set out why 
its deducted £200 for pre-accident damage and Ive thought about this. But, as I set out 
previously, this was a 12 year old car that had travelled around 84,500 miles at the time of 
the accident. Im not persuaded that the damage Advantage has referred to is out of line with 
what one would reasonably expect to see on a car of this age and mileage. So I dont think it 
was fair to deduct £200 from the cars market value for this.
Finally, Ive considered that Mrs W doesnt think £100 is fair compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience this matter has caused. I think its inevitable that a consumer will suffer 
some distress and inconvenience from making a complaint, but a business doesnt always 
have to pay compensation for that  sometimes a simple apology will suffice. However, I do 
recognise that Mrs W has suffered a degree distress and inconvenience in excess of what 
she should have done. But I still think £100 is fair compensation for whats happened.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do the following to put things right:
1. Pay Mrs W a further £715 plus 8% simple interest from the date of initial settlement until 
this is paid to her. If Advantage thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs W how much its taken off. It 
should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax if appropriate.
2. Pay £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman