DRN-4106239
The complaint
Mr V complains through a representative that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as 
MoneyBoat.co.uk (MoneyBoat) provided him with a loan without carrying out appropriate 
affordability checks. 
What happened
Mr V was granted one loan on 16 April 2021 for £250. Mr V was due to make three 
instalments of £117.94. The loan was repaid on 9 July 2021. 
MoneyBoat considered the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide the loan because it had carried out proportionate checks which showed it Mr V could 
afford the repayment. Unhappy with this response, Mr Vs representative referred his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. She said MoneyBoat 
had reasonable grounds to believe Mr V could afford the loan and that it had carried out 
proportionate checks. 
Mr Vs representative didnt agree and instead asked for an ombudsmans final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr V could afford to pay back the amount 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Vs 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr V. These factors include:
Mr V having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr V having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr V coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr V. The adjudicator didnt consider 
this applied in Mr Vs complaint. 
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr V could sustainably repay the loan  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr V was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Vs complaint.
Before the loan was approved, MoneyBoat asked Mr V for details of his income, which he 
declared as being £2,800 per month. MoneyBoat says the income figure was checked by 
cross referencing information through a third-party report.  
Mr V also declared monthly outgoings of £700. As part of the application, MoneyBoat used 
information from its credit search (which Ill come onto discuss below) and / or used 
information from the Common Financial Statement. As a result, of this check, Mr Vs 
monthly expenditure was increased by £150 per month.
After carrying out these checks, Mr Vs disposable income was £1,950 per month in which to 
afford the loan repayments of around £118. The loan looked affordable. 
MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has provided a summary of the results it 
received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that although MoneyBoat 
carried out credit searches, there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a 
specific standard. But what MoneyBoat couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then not 
react to the information it received  if necessary.  
Ive reviewed the credit check results, there isnt anything in any of the results that wouldve 
indicated that Mr V was having financial difficulties, for example it knew there were no 
insolvency markers, defaults recorded within the last three years or debt management plans. 
There also wasnt anything else within the results that indicated Mr V was reliant on these 
sorts of loans (or home credit loans). 
Overall, there wasnt nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led 
MoneyBoat to believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the 
information Mr V had provided. So, while Mr Vs representative has provided his bank 
statements, in this case, it wouldve been disproportionate for MoneyBoat to have 
considered them. 
Given the evidence provided, I think it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to have relied on the 
information Mr V gave about his income and expenditure to show he had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to making for his only loan. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Vs complaint. My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman