DRN-4296583
The complaint
Mr P complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax dealt with him in
respect of his request for assistance with a dispute he had with a third party holiday provider
he paid using his Halifax debit card.
What happened
I recently issued a provisional decision setting out the background to this complaint and how 
I was minded to propose matters were best resolved. Ive reproduced my provisional 
decision here, which forms part of this final decision.
My Provisional Decision
Mr P has provided a very detailed timeline of the events that form the background to this 
complaint, along with call transcripts. His record of events doesnt appear to be in dispute so 
while Ive reviewed the submissions in full, I trust the parties will understand why in the 
interests of brevity Ill simply summarise those events here.
Mr P and his family were looking forward to the two-week family holiday theyd booked. But 
when they arrived at the destination, they found a number of things were wrong with the 
property; most notably that air conditioning wasnt available in the bedroom and wasnt 
working in the rest of the property. Mr P attempted to get the problems resolved but without 
success. The family found the heat unbearable and left after a few days.
The holiday provider (B) refunded some of the cost of the holiday, but Mr P was unhappy 
with the position. As hed paid for the holiday using his Halifax debit card, he contacted the 
bank to see if it could assist him. He told the bank about the refund for terminating the 
holiday early and that he was calling to see if there was anything the bank could do to help 
with recovering the money spent on the first week of the holiday. Mr P says he made clear to 
Halifax in this initial conversation that if it couldnt assist, he would instead take up the matter 
at the Small Claims Court.
Halifax initially told Mr P (on three separate occasions, with different representatives) that he 
had a valid chargeback claim. After a further call it refunded his account, saying this was 
conditional on what B said in response, giving a 45-day period for this. Mr P submitted 
further evidence in support of his claim via an online file transfer service. However, Halifax 
then told Mr P it couldnt submit the chargeback claim at that time and that it was reversing 
the temporary credit.
When Mr P questioned this position with representatives including a senior manager, the 
bank told him it had got things wrong in terms of the date of the dispute and that as a result it 
would look to write off the disputed sum. Mr P was assured that the temporary credit reversal 
would be suspended, but this didnt happen and the reversal left Mr P over his agreed 
overdraft limit.
This caused Mr P further difficulty as he then had to deal with companies with whom he held 
direct debits as well as the problems with Halifax. The bank then told Mr P that it was unable 
to progress the chargeback claim because the Visa card scheme rules limited a chargeback 
amount to the unused portion of a cancelled service. Mr P raised a formal complaint with the 
bank including querying why he wasnt told this from the outset, given his initial conversation 
with the bank.
Halifax applied charges to the overdrawn balance, although it appears to have told Mr P it 
would suspend these. It also reported the excess overdraft on Mr Ps credit file. The banks 
collections team went on to issue a demand for repayment of the full balance. Mr P also 
complained to Halifax about this stance, explaining that hed taken a loan to clear the 
overdraft as he was worried about the impact on his credit file.
Halifax responded several times to Mr Ps complaint. Its initial reply of 18 November 2022 
expressed disappointment at the poor service hed received but didnt consider it had done 
anything wrong in terms of the chargeback claim. Mr P escalated his complaint and received 
a lengthier response dated 25 November. That letter acknowledged the bank hadnt 
addressed all of Mr Ps concerns and proposed increasing its compensation offer for poor 
service from £50 to £120. The bank maintained that it couldnt assist with the chargeback 
claim, but noted that it had given Mr P conflicting information and false promises.
At the same time, Halifax issued a second letter in response to Mr Ps concern that it had 
sent its previous correspondence to the wrong address. It reiterated the previous offers 
made and proposed a further increase of £85 compensation to reflect its error in sending the 
letter. Halifax issued another letter dated 21 December addressing the points Mr P had 
made about its actions in relation to the overdraft and Mr Ps credit file. It apologised for the 
service it had provided regarding these aspects and offered £75 compensation. However, 
the bank didnt consider it was wrong to report the account position to Mr Ps credit file, or 
that it had any responsibility for Mr Ps decision to take out a loan to repay the account 
balance.
Mr P remained dissatisfied and referred matters to our service. Our investigator 
recommended that Halifax increase its settlement offer to £500, which he felt was a fair way 
to resolve the dispute. He also recommended the bank remove adverse information from 
Mr Ps credit file in relation to the overdraft.
Halifax said it was willing to agree to the recommendation. But Mr P wasnt happy with the 
proposal and the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Mr P has presented a cohesive and thorough account of his conversations with Halifax, 
supported by transcripts. I understand the bank has also provided call recordings. It hasnt 
suggested that the call recordings offer a different account of what happened; indeed, the 
banks complaint correspondence describes giving Mr P conflicting information and false 
promises. I find Mr Ps evidence to be an accurate and persuasive record of events, and that 
it is appropriate for me to base my findings on them.
I acknowledge Halifaxs point about what the relevant Visa chargeback rule says in relation 
to limiting the dispute amount to the unused portion of the cancelled service. Im not entirely 
persuaded that this prevents a card issuer from pursuing a chargeback in the circumstances 
described by Mr P. There is scope for interpreting that limitation differently; if there were not, 
the position would be that a chargeback could never be raised for any service that had been 
carried out irrespective of it being defective. That seems to me rather unlikely.
That there is scope for interpretation offers a possible explanation as to why several Halifax 
representatives considered that Mr P did have a valid chargeback claim. But while I appreciate Halifax has placed emphasis on whether the chargeback could be raised 
successful, to my mind that rather misses the point of Mr Ps complaint.
He is primarily dissatisfied that Halifax led him to understand that:
a) the chargeback claim was valid and he should receive an immediate temporary credit;
b) whether the temporary credit would be reversed would be based on Bs response;
c) the credit reversal would be suspended; and
d) that in light of service failings the debit amount should be written off
All of this is supported by the call records Ive seen, including Mr Ps conversation of 10 
September 2022 with a senior department manager in Halifaxs debit card disputes team.
There are three possibilities here. First, that Halifax gave Mr P correct information and then 
failed to adhere to it. Second, that Halifax gave Mr P a series of incorrect information. Third, 
that a number of Halifax representatives gave Mr P assurances that they lacked the 
necessary authority to provide to him.
Im not inclined to say that any of these scenarios place Halifax in a particularly good light, or 
that they support the outcome it reached. I dont think it would be controversial to say that a 
customer is generally entitled to rely on what their bank tells them. If the bank doesnt take 
reasonable care to ensure what its representatives tell a customer is right, it is only fair that it 
bears the consequences of that. And if what Halifax told Mr P was right, then it should have 
taken the actions it said it would.
Bearing this in mind, Im minded to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Even if the bank was correct in 
its decision not to progress a chargeback claim (and I dont necessarily share that view), 
there were serious shortcomings in the way it dealt with Mr P. Those shortcomings caused 
Mr P a good deal of confusion and concern over whether he would be refunded. They also 
led Mr P to believe the temporary credit reversal would be suspended, leading to his account 
overdraft limit being exceeded.
All of this has undoubtedly caused Mr P a great deal of distress and inconvenience, which 
hes described in detail. Hes spent a considerable amount of time and incurred costs in 
trying to deal with matters, and the stress of the whole situation has placed an avoidable 
burden on him. Having carefully considered all thats happened, Im minded to conclude that 
they warrant a significantly higher compensation award than that previously suggested. 
Looking at the amount originally in dispute - £1,487.15  I propose to require Halifax to pay 
this sum to address Mr Ps distress and inconvenience.
I also take a different approach from Halifax in terms of the steps Mr P took to address the 
collections activity the bank took towards him. Halifax recorded the excess position on 
Mr Ps credit file, causing him further concern over the impact on his ability to obtain credit. 
This was particularly pertinent due to Mr Ps family situation and their plans to move house, 
which had to be put on hold. Im aware Mr P was able to get a loan, which he used in part to 
repay the overdrawn balance I understand Halifax demanded in November 2022.
Although that suggests the information Halifax recorded hadnt at that point significantly 
impacted on Mr Ps ability to borrow, that isnt the whole story. While Halifax has said it wont 
take into account Mr Ps decision to take out the loan, Im satisfied that in borrowing 
elsewhere to repay the debt owed to Halifax, Mr P was taking reasonable steps in mitigation 
to avoid further loss or harm. A failure to repay the overdraft on demand could have resulted 
in Mr P being in default.Mr P has provided loan documents showing the annual interest rate on this loan as 
11.4766%. That interest (insofar as it relates to the amount Halifax demanded, which I 
understand to be £3,146.57) represents a loss to Mr P attributable to Halifaxs actions. As 
such I consider it fair for Halifax to compensate him for this in addition to the amount Ive 
mentioned above. I dont consider it appropriate for the bank to pay this for the term over 
which Mr P took the loan. The loan amortisation schedule makes this inappropriate, and it is 
also open to Mr P to avoid or mitigate this interest by repaying a lump sum towards the loan.
To enable calculation of a fair sum in this respect, I instead propose that Halifax pays Mr P 
an amount broadly equivalent to one years simple interest on the £3,146.57, which works 
out at £361.12. I should be clear to the bank that this is an amount of compensation to 
address Mr Ps loss rather than a payment of interest, and as such there should be no 
deduction made for income tax.
Ive noted Mr Ps concerns about the excess overdraft information recorded on his credit file. 
Im satisfied that, had Halifax dealt with matters better from the outset, this position wouldnt 
have arisen. Consequently I also intend to direct the bank to amend Mr Ps credit file to 
remove reference to the excess overdraft position.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response 
to my intended conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Halifax and Mr P responded promptly to my provisional findings. Im grateful to them for 
doing so.
Mr P accepted my provisional findings and proposed resolution. So did Halifax. With this in 
mind, I see no reason to depart from what I said in my provisional decision. Im satisfied its a 
fair and reasonable way to resolve this individual complaint
My final decision
My final decision is that to settle this complaint, Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must 
take the following steps:
1. pay Mr P a total of £1,848.27
2. amend Mr Ps credit file to remove any references to the excess overdraft position 
since 1 September 2022
Im conscious that Mr P has raised some concerns over the timescale for the amendment to 
his credit file, as it continues to have an impact on his house buying plans. Beraing this in 
mind, Halifax should notify the credit reference agencies as soon as possible, ideally within 
14 days of receiving Mr Ps acceptance of my decision,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman