DRN-3432611
The complaint
In summary, Mr R complains about Nationwide Building Societys security identification 
processes, when he called it to obtain information about an existing account, he was 
unaware of. 
What happened
Mr R tried to open a new online savings account with Nationwide. Whilst doing so, he 
received a notification informing him that he held an existing account with it. 
Mr R then phoned Nationwide on 28 August 201 to ask for details about the account. During 
the call he was unable to pass its security checks, so he wasnt able to get any information 
about the existing account. 
Mr R wasnt happy with what happened and complained to Nationwide. In its response, 
Nationwide explained that its security process was in place to ensure its members money 
was kept safe. It didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr Rs concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. He explained why he didnt 
think Nationwide had done anything wrong. Mr R didnt accept the investigators 
assessment, so the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand Mr R found his experience with Nationwide to be frustrating when he called 
it to find out details of his existing account. And the key issue I need to decide, is whether 
Nationwide did anything wrong during its call with Mr R, when it took him through its security 
process. Having reviewed everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain 
why.
In reviewing Mr Rs complaint, Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key issues I need 
to determine. This means that I wont necessarily have addressed all of the points Mr R has 
made. But I want to reassure Mr R and Nationwide that I have thought about everything they 
have provided me with.
Mr R has raised concerns about Nationwides customer verification process. He thinks it is 
inflexible. It isnt my role or the role of this service, to tell Nationwide how it should implement 
its wider customer verification systems and processes. If Mr R has those concerns about 
Nationwides wider processes, they would need to be directed to its regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). My jurisdiction and authority only applies to what has happened in 
an individual complaint. So, I can consider what happened in Mr Rs case when he phoned 
Nationwide. 
Mr R also has concerns about the length of time Nationwide took to provide a substantive 
response to his complaint. Ideally a business such as Nationwide would respond to a 
complaint as quickly as possible. But the Dispute resolution (DISP) rules under which I 
operate, and that Nationwide must take into account, do provide for it to have eight weeks to 
respond to a customers complaint. And I can see that it provided its substantive response to 
the complaint, within eight weeks from when Mr R raised his concerns with it.
Nationwide has a legal duty to protect customer data for customers such as Mr R. And it is 
legally obliged to have security processes in place to ensure that its customers data is 
adequately protected. And if it doesnt protect customers data in a secure and appropriate 
way, this could have serious consequences for individual customers if there are breaches in 
respect of their data  and for Nationwide as a business.  So, I think its appropriate for 
Nationwide to have taken Mr R through a series of security questions when he phoned to 
ask for information about the account he had with it, that he had been unaware of. 
Ive listened to the call where Mr R was taken through security. And I understand his 
frustration as he didnt have information about his existing account. But its not clear to me 
that this was the reason he failed security. Mr R was asked whether he had any other 
accounts other than the account he was ringing to enquire about. He said he didnt think so. 
But hes subsequently said he had a mortgage with it, which suggests to me the answer he 
gave to the call handler was incorrect, which could have been the reason he failed the 
customer verification process. And in my experience if customer verification is failed in a call 
such as the one Mr R had with Nationwide, then that call cant continue.  
My impression from the call, was that the call handler explained what the next steps would 
be and took down the details of the complaint Mr R wanted to make. So, I dont think 
Nationwide acted inappropriately by not carrying on with the call. But I understand this would 
have been frustrating for Mr R.
Mr R was also given two options to resolve this issue. He was asked to gather any other 
information he had and call back at a later time. And he was told that he could call into a 
branch with identification details. Mr R said going into a branch wasnt convenient for him. I 
can understand that may have been the case. But I do think Nationwide provided Mr R with 
appropriate options to enable him to provide the necessary information to pass customer 
security verification, and to obtain the information he wanted. 
In summary, whilst I accept Mr R found his interaction with Nationwide to be frustrating, for 
the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think it did anything wrong. 
My final decision
My decision is not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman