DRN-2069030
Complaint
Mr G has complained that Avant Credit of UK, LLC (trading as Avant Credit) provided an 
unaffordable loan to him in February 2017. Hes said a lack of checks led to Avant Credit 
lending to him when it should have realised that he was in a cycle of payday lending. 
  
Background
Mr G approached Avant Credit for a loan in February 2017. Mr G was provided with a loan of 
£2,000.00 and this was to be repaid over 24 monthly instalments of £123.06.
One of our investigators looked at what Avant Credit and Mr G said. He thought that it was 
unfair for Avant Credit to have provided this loan to Mr G. Avant Credit didnt agree with our 
investigators assessment and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
The regulatory framework
Avant Credit lent to Mr G while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA).
the FCA Principles for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised 
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules which apply to providers of consumer credit like Avant Credit.     
CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending. 
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between the Office of Fair Tradings (OFT) 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) and the rules set out in CONC 5. As is evident from 
the following extracts, the FCAs CONC rules specifically note and refer back to sections of 
the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing to give a 
consumer a loan of this type. It says a firm must consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the information of which 
the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the customer. 
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers ability to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable period; and(c)  out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference to paragraphs 4.13, 4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been truthful in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law, I think 
there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
Did Avant Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr G 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr G wouldve been able to do so?
Did Avant Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Avant Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr G 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
The rules and regulations in place when Avant Credit lent to Mr G required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mr G could afford to repay his loan in 
a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The affordability check had to be borrower-focused  so Avant Credit had to think about 
whether Mr G would be able to repay the loan sustainably. In practice this meant that Avant 
Credit had to have enough in order to be able to reasonably conclude that making the 
payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr G undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for Avant Credit to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr G.Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve be for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive thought 
about all the relevant factors in this case.
Were Avant Credits checks reasonable and proportionate?
Having carefully thought about what Avant Credit has said, I dont think that its checks did go 
far enough. Id like to explain why I think that this is the case.
As Ive set out above, CONC 5.2.4G(2) provides some guidance on the proportionality of 
assessments. And it makes it clear that the risk of credit not being sustainable directly 
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the 
customers financial situation.  
At this point, it might be helpful for me to explain that bearing in mind Avant Credits 
regulatory obligations as well as good industry practice, a less detailed affordability 
assessment, without the need for verification, is only really likely to be fair, reasonable and 
proportionate in circumstances where the amount to be repaid is relatively small, the 
consumers financial situation is stable and they will be indebted for a relatively short period. 
But, in circumstances  such as here - where the borrower is being expected to maintain 
payments for a longer period of time, the cost of the credit is high and the purpose of the 
loan is, recorded at least, consolidate existing debt, I think that any affordability assessment 
needs to be more detailed and contain a greater degree of verification and scrutiny, in order 
for it to be fair, reasonable and proportionate. 
I say this while especially mindful that Avant Credits credit search flagged up a significant 
number of concerns. It suggested that Mr G had taken opened a large number of credit accounts including taking a significant number of payday loans in the period leading up to 
this application. And he was also close to the maximum amount on his revolving credit 
balances. 
Taking all of this into account, I think that Avant Credit needed to get a thorough 
understanding of Mr Gs financial position. So as well as asking Mr G about the details of his 
income and expenditure, I think that Avant Credit needed to take steps to verify what it was 
being told by Mr G and scrutinise the information received.  
As theres no evidence that Avant Credit did properly scrutinise the information on the credit 
check or the information it obtained from Mr G, I dont think it completed reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks before providing this loan.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Avant Credit that Mr G would 
have been unable to sustainably repay the loan?
As proportionate checks werent carried out for this loan, I cant say for sure what they 
wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely than not that a proportionate 
check would have told Avant Credit that it was unfair to offer this loan to Mr G. 
Mr G has provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied for 
the loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And just because 
something shows up in the information Mr G has provided, it doesnt mean it wouldve shown 
up in any checks Avant Credit mightve carried out. But in the absence of anything else from 
Avant Credit showing what this information would have shown, I think its perfectly fair and 
reasonable to place considerable weight on it as an indication of what Mr Gs financial 
circumstances were likely to have been at the time.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that, in my view, Avant Credit was required 
to establish whether Mr G could sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether 
the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of 
course the loan payments being affordable on this could be an indication that a consumer 
could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the 
case. This is because CONC defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And, in my view, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered the information Mr G has provided in light of this. 
The information Ive been provided with shows Mr G was in a cycle of payday lending when 
he was provided with this loan. Indeed the information Ive seen suggested this carried on 
even after Avant Credit provided this loan. And Mr Gs bank statements and credit file also 
show that he was at his overdraft limit. 
So all of the information Ive seen shows that Mr G was already in a difficult financial 
position. And, in these circumstances, I think that reasonable and proportionate checks 
would have alerted Avant Credit to the fact that Mr G was already struggling financially and 
so he simply wasnt able to make the payments to this loan without experiencing financial 
difficulty and/or borrowing further. And so it follows that he wasnt in any sort of financial 
position to sustainably make the repayments to this loan.     Did Avant Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Avant Credit acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr G in some 
other way.  
Overall and having carefully thought about the two overarching questions, set out on page 
three of this decision, I think that Avant Credit unfairly and unreasonably provided Mr G with 
this loan because it failed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks and its more 
likely than not that such checks wouldve shown Avant Credit that Mr G wouldnt be able to 
sustainably repay the loan. So Avant Credit shouldnt have provided the loan to Mr G. 
As Mr G ended up paying interest and charges on a loan proportionate checks would more 
likely than not have shown hed be unable to sustainably repay, I think that he lost out 
because of what Avant Credit did wrong. So Avant Credit should put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Mr G
Ive carefully thought about what Avant Credit should do to put things right in this case. 
Having done so, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Gs 
complaint for Avant Credit to put things right by:
refunding the interest, fees and charges Mr G paid on his loan;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any interest and charges from the date they 
were paid by Mr G to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. Avant Credit of UK, LLC 
should pay Mr G compensation as set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman