DRN-3259340
The complaint
Mr J complained about the poor service he received from Sainsburys Bank plc 
(Sainsburys) when his motor policy was due for renewal. Sainsburys were the broker 
responsible for the administration of the policy.
What happened
Mr J contacted Sainsburys on the morning of his renewal to get a quote using alternative No 
Claims Discounts (NCDs) of either seven or eight years. Mr Js policy hadnt renewed at this 
point and the call agent asked Mr J to upload his proof of NCD and said they would ring him 
back with a quote. Unfortunately, the agent didnt call back until after the renewal which Mr J 
said resulted in him getting a new quote that was more expensive than it wouldve been if 
done before the renewal.
Sainsburys apologised for not calling back when it said it would, which meant the policy 
lapsed and couldnt be renewed. When the call agent did call back, Mr J provided some 
details that were different (e.g. licence date and voluntary excess) when compared to his 
original policy details. These new details were used when generating the new quote and the 
quote was much higher than the renewal price offered.
Sainsburys acknowledged the customer experience couldve been better and offered £75 
compensation as a goodwill gesture.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He said the main reason the quotation 
from Sainsburys went up was due to the different details provided by Mr J. So, he didnt think 
Mr J had been financially penalised. However, he did agree there was a service failure, but 
he thought the compensation offered was fair. Mr J disagreed, so the complaint has been 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys has explained to our service what it shouldve done when Mr J asked for a new 
quote and where it went wrong. It said it shouldve re-quote the renewal at the requested 
seven years NCD and offered the new price. Advisor incorrectly advised to upload the 
change in NCD first before doing this when we should have re-quoted with the change and 
renewed if customer wished and then asked him to send in proof as NCD can be changed 
as a mid-year adjustment after the renewal if proof was incorrect as policy was due to renew 
at midday. Policy notes shows customer called back after uploading proof after 1pm and as 
such the policy had automatically lapsed and we could not reinstate.
I think Sainsburys has been transparent about what it did wrong in the renewal, and I think 
the £75 offer of compensation is fair for the error by the call agent.
However, I need to make sure Mr J hasnt been financially impacted by this mistake. Mr J 
thinks hes paid a higher premium because of the mistake. The price of policy will vary 
greatly due to the different circumstances of each policyholder and their requirements, as 
each situation will create a different level of risk for the insurer to cover. The details provided 
are the responsibility of the policyholder and these would be validated in the event of a 
claim.
I have reviewed information provided by Sainsburys and Im assured that the discrepancy in 
price that was generated was wholly down to the change in details Mr J provided and not 
due to the delay in the call agent calling Mr J back. The new circumstances or requirements 
Mr J provided led to a vastly different price. Therefore, as Mr J hasnt been financially 
disadvantaged and I think Sainsburys has already compensated Mr J fairly, then I dont 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require Sainsburys Bank plc 
to do anymore. Mr J can still accept Sainsburys offer of compensation if he hasnt 
already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman