DRN-2146885
The complaint
Mr R says Ferratum UK Limited, (Ferratum), irresponsibly lent to him. The complaint is 
brought to this service on Mr Rs behalf by a claims management company. But for ease I 
shall refer below to all actions being taken by Mr R.
What happened
This complaint is about 13 short term loans Ferratum provided to Mr R between 
January 2019 and August 2019. Loans 2 to 5 were repayable by one repayment and the 
other loans were repayable by between two and four monthly repayments. All the loans have 
been repaid. Mr Rs borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount
1 17/01/2019 31/01/2019 3 £500.00
2 13/02/2019 28/02/2019 1 £300.00
3 01/03/2019 07/03/2019 1 £200.00
4 19/03/2019 29/03/2019 1 £300.00
5 01/04/2019 02/04/2019 1 £250.00
6 04/04/2019 30/04/2019 2 £300.00
7 01/05/2019 03/07/2019 4 £600.00
8 06/07/2019 08/07/2019 2 £300.00
9 11/07/2019 18/07/2019 2 £300.00
10 23/07/2019 24/07/2019 3 £350.00
11 25/07/2019 04/08/2019 3 £300.00
12 05/08/2019 15/08/2019 4 £500.00
13 18/08/2019 20/08/2019 3 £300.00
Ferratum, in its final response letter, offered to refund Mr R £120 as a gesture of goodwill in 
full and final settlement of the complaint. 
Mr R rejected this offer.
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator said that Loans 4 to 13 shouldnt have been given. She said that by Loan 4, 
proportionate checks would most likely have shown Mr R was having problems managing 
his money. She thought that Ferratum would have become aware that Mr R had at least 
three outstanding short-term loans with other lenders. In these circumstances, she thought 
that Ferratum ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr R would have been able to 
sustainably repay this loan and any subsequent loans. And by Loan 7 Mr Rs overall pattern 
of borrowing suggested that he was persistently reliant on short term loans and his loans 
from Loan 7 onwards were unsustainable. 
Ferratum responded to say that nearly all the loans were paid earlier than scheduled. So, it 
had no reason to believe the lending wasnt sustainable. But it offered to refund the interest 
paid on Loan 7 and pay 8% interest on the refunds. It said that there was no adverse 
information to remove from Mr Rs credit file.
Mr R rejected Ferratums offer.
My provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr R 
and to Ferratum on 7 August 2020.  I summarise my findings:
Id said that as some of the evidence was either incomplete or contradictory, Id made a 
decision on what I thought was most likely to have happened  based on what was 
available.
I could see that Ferratum had offered to settle Loan 7 and it had said that there was no 
adverse information to remove for Loan 7. But Ferratum might have misread the 
adjudicators recommendations. Shed recommended that all information about Loan 7 be 
removed from Mr Rs credit file.
Id noted that the Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator when Mr R took out his 
loans. The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks Ferratum needed to carry out 
in order to reasonably assess whether or not Mr R would be able to meet his repayments. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggested that 
the same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances. 
In general, I would have expected a lender to require more assurance the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, 
for example, Id have expected a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more 
detailed checks
  the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). 
Id noted that Ferratum had asked Mr R for details of his income. Mr R had declared his 
monthly income as £1,501. 
Id also noted that Ferratum had said that it approved the loans after conducting up to date 
credit checks with a credit reference agency (CRA) along with its own internal credit policy 
checks. It said that the credit checks showed Mr Rs payment history on other credit 
commitments. But it had also said that if Mr R had loans or arrears with other companies 
who did not share or subscribe to the same agency as it, then these debts would have been 
invisible to it. Ferratum said that it had acted on the information provided and the facts 
available to it. It also said that it had relied on the information provided by the consumer to 
make a lending decision and the affordability checks it did were proportionate to the amounts 
borrowed.Ferratum had provided this service with 13 documents containing detailed credit checks from 
its CRA. Whilst I couldnt see a date on any of these documents, on balance I thought it was 
likely that each of the documents were the credit checks Ferratum said it had requested 
before each of the 13 loans. 
The credit check results that Ferratum had shared with us didnt show that Mr R was in a 
stable financial position. All the results showed that he had a significant number of open 
credit accounts. At best, Mr R had ten active accounts (on three occasions) and at worst he 
had 19 active accounts (on four occasions). So, although I didnt know which credit check 
had been received before each loan, I thought each of the checks ought to have caused 
Ferratum some concerns. I thought this was especially the case as the lender didnt appear 
to have asked Mr R for information about his regular expenditure. So, it was unaware of the 
amount of his disposable income which would have been available for repaying the loans. In 
addition, as Id said above, it was also aware that Mr R might have had other debts with 
other lenders which didnt use the same CRA as it had used.
The repayment amounts for Loans 1 to 4 mightve looked affordable on the salary figure    
Mr R gave Ferratum.  But, although Ferratum didnt need to do full checks when Loans 1 to 
4 were arranged, it did need to consider and act on the information it had before lending to 
Mr R.  It ought to have been aware from its credit checks that Mr R was already committed 
to repaying a large number of credit accounts. At the very least I thought the information it 
had seen should have prompted a responsible lender to have made further checks before 
lending to build a clearer picture of Mr Rs financial situation. Had Ferratum done so, it would 
have become aware that Mr R had at least another four short term loans at the time hed 
applied for Loans 1 to 4 which were repayable at the same time as those loans. Id seen 
these on Mr Rs own credit report and bank statements. So, I thought these suggested that 
Mr R was having problems managing his money. And as a responsible lender, I didnt think 
Ferratum should have given Loans 1 to 4 to Mr R.
 
I did think, by the time Mr R asked for Loans 5 and 6, that Ferratum should have realised 
that it couldnt safely rely on the information he was providing about his finances. Loan 5 was 
Mr Rs third loan in a month and was taken out three days after Loan 4 was repaid. Mr R had 
repaid three of his previous loans earlier than planned and following each of his previous 
loans, he had taken out another loan shortly afterwards. Loan 5 was repaid a day after being 
taken out and Mr R then took out Loan 6 two days later for a larger sum. All of this 
suggested to me that Mr R was most likely unable to repay his previous loan without taking 
out a new one and was borrowing again to fill a gap in his finances. So, I thought Ferratum 
should have taken steps before Loans 5 and 6 to independently verify Mr Rs true financial 
position. 
Id looked at copies of Mr Rs bank statements from the time and his credit report to get an 
understanding of his financial position at the time of taking Loans 5 and 6. I thought this was 
information that would have been apparent to Ferratum if it had made more detailed checks. 
From those statements and credit report I could see that Mr R was spending a significant 
proportion of his income on gambling. He was also borrowing heavily from a range of other 
short term lenders. He typically had at least six other short term loans outstanding when hed 
asked to borrow Loans 5 and 6 from Ferratum. I thought from that information it should have 
been clear to Ferratum that Mr R was having significant problems managing his money and 
that it would be unlikely that he could repay any further borrowing without undue difficulty. 
So, I didnt think Ferratum should have agreed to give Mr R Loans 5 and 6. 
Id looked at the overall pattern of Ferratums lending history with Mr R, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point at which Ferratum should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so, Ferratum should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. Given the circumstances of Mr Rs case, I thought that this 
point was reached by Loan 7.
Loan 7 was Mr Rs seventh loan in less than four months and his previous three loans had 
been borrowed with barely any gaps between them. Loan 7 was taken out the day after  
Loan 6 was repaid. Again, I thought it was more likely than not that Mr R was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances. And 
the loan amount for Loan 7 was his highest yet. So, he wasnt making any inroads into the 
amount hed owed Ferratum. 
Mr R had also paid off four of his first six loans far earlier than planned, and on three 
occasions then went on to borrow higher amounts shortly afterwards. I thought by this time 
that pattern of frequent borrowing and repaying early should have indicated to Ferratum that 
Mr R was most likely having significant problems managing his money. And I thought 
Ferratum ought to have known that it was unlikely that Mr R was borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in his income but more to meet an ongoing need and that it was likely   
Mr R was dependent on its lending. 
Over the following four months Mr Rs borrowing pattern was largely unchanged. Hed 
continued his pattern of frequent early repayment and reborrowing. I think that Mr R lost out 
because Ferratum continued to provide borrowing from Loan 7 onwards. These loans had 
the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Rs indebtedness by allowing him to continue to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. The 
cumulative length of time hed been borrowing from Ferratum was likely to have had 
negative implications on Mr Rs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans. And the fact that the loans were usually repaid early didnt 
mean that they were repaid without causing Mr R undue difficulty. 
I note that Ferratum said there was no reason to believe that the lending wasnt sustainable 
as nearly all the loans had been paid earlier than scheduled. But I thought that the fact that 
Mr R typically repaid his loans much earlier than planned should have caused some 
concerns to Ferratum. That might be the sort of behaviour that might have indicated that 
someone was facing problems managing their money and was needing to refinance loans 
on a regular basis.
And when a consumer borrowed numerous loans over a long period of time, it was most 
likely that the loans werent being used for their intended purpose of temporary cash flow 
problems. As Ferratum knew, the FCA made it clear in a letter to CEOs of high cost lending 
firms that a high volume of relending..may be symptomatic of unsustainable lending 
patterns. And I thought that was the case here.
Subject to any further representations by Mr R or Ferratum my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to order Ferratum to put things right as 
follows.
putting things right  what Ferratum needs to do
Refund all interest and charges Mr R paid on Loans 1 to 13 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest and charges from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement*;
Remove adverse entries about Loans 1 to 6 from Mr Rs credit file;
Remove all entries about Loans 7 to 13 from Mr Rs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Ferratum to take off tax from this interest. Ferratum must 
give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. Ferratum responded to my provisional decision by agreeing to repay the redress Id set out 
in my provisional decision. It also said that it had removed the history of Loans 6 to 13 from 
Mr Rs credit file.
Mr R responded to say that he was happy with my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Ferratum appears to have agreed to my provisional decision and that Mr R is 
happy with my provisional decision and has given me nothing further to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
uphold this complaint and require Ferratum pay Mr R some compensation and take the 
steps set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint I order 
Ferratum UK Limited to: -
1. Refund all interest and charges Mr R paid on Loans 1 to 13 and pay interest of 
8% simple a year on such refunded interest and charges from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*;
2. Remove adverse entries about Loans 1 to 6 from Mr Rs credit file; and
3. Remove all entries about Loans 7 to 13 from Mr Rs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Ferratum to take off tax from this interest. Ferratum must 
give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman