DRN-3159240
The complaint
Miss C has complained Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi 
Financial Services, didnt treat four credit agreements within a short period as suspicious.
What happened
Miss C bought four cars from a dealership over a six month period in 2018. The dealership 
(who Ill call J) acted as credit broker for those four cars. These werent the only cars Miss C 
had bought or enquired about at J over a period.
In late 2019 Miss C came to believe shed been groomed financially and taken emotional 
and financial advantage of. This person (who Ill call Mr B) had worked at J. Miss C believed 
shed been manipulated to buy cars and take out finance agreements to boost Mr Bs 
income.
Miss C believed she should have been treated as a vulnerable customer and VWFS should 
have identified the numerous agreements as potentially fraudulent. These purchases (and 
many others that Miss C had made) came after Miss Cs parents had died when she was 
more emotionally open to being manipulated. VWFS told Miss C they didnt believe theyd 
done anything wrong. They felt their responsibilities extended to ensuring the financial 
agreements were completed properly.
Our investigator explained to Miss C why there were so many parts of her complaint we 
couldnt look at. Overall he didnt believe there was any basis we could ask VWFS to do 
anything further.
Miss C disagreed with this outcome. She asked an ombudsman to make a decision on her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar outcome to our investigator. Ill explain why.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than Miss C has done 
and Ive done so using my own words. Firstly Im doing this because of the personal and 
distressing nature of the issues shes raised. I dont feel the need to repeat what shes told 
us about her experiences over the period since her parents died and since she met Mr B. Id 
like to reassure her, however, that Ive taken into account her powerful personal testimony.
So Im not going to respond to every single point made by Miss C. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. This also reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Apart from the detail shared with us by Miss C, Im also aware of the detail contained in our 
investigators view of 29 October 2021 and subsequent emails. This covers what happened 
in detail and Miss Cs evidence. I wont be repeating all this information again but I have 
taken it into account.
It's worth stressing that my role relates solely to VWFSs role as lender and whether the 
financial agreements were misrepresented in any way. Im aware that further cars were sold 
by J to Miss C but no finance was taken out. Miss C had a long-standing relationship with J 
and had bought numerous cars through them over a period before the issues shes disputing 
here. 
Im also aware of her allegations about Mr B and his role as an employee of J. Miss C knows 
this aspect doesnt play a role in my consideration here.
Ive also seen evidence of correspondence between Miss C and J which demonstrates her 
clear understanding of what she wants from a car and concern that she may not be getting 
what shes buying (and that includes the value of the cars themselves).
The first car that Miss C purchases using a hire purchase agreement is in May 2018. The car 
cost nearly £43,000 and Miss C paid a deposit (or part-exchange) of £5,000. Miss C 
committed to paying just over £500 a month for the next four years.
The second car is purchased under a new hire purchase agreement just 10 days later. 
Miss C would be paying £560 a month for the next four years.
The two subsequent hire purchase agreements in October 2018 involve monthly payments 
of £475 then £540 a month.
I dont believe any of these agreements ran concurrently. So at no stage did Miss C have 
more than one agreement in play at any one time. Im confident that Miss C wasnt at risk of 
unaffordability issues.
However that isnt the only check that VWFS could have carried out. VWFS is a regulated 
consumer credit business and is subject to regulations around money laundering and 
potential fraudulent behaviour. 
Its unclear whether they have any criteria which mean they automatically check why 
someone is buying so many cars in a short period. Im not aware of any criteria set by the 
regulator. So Ive thought about what is fair and reasonable. Its probably not that unusual for 
customers to return cars within a couple of weeks for a number of reasons  they discover 
its unsuitable in some way. They then take out a further agreement for a further car. So two 
agreements within 2-3 weeks is probably not unusual.
I also believe it wouldnt be too surprising if someone then returned that car within a six 
month period. However I think a fourth agreement taken out within a further short period 
should extend some alarm bells. I may have expected VWFS to ask some additional 
questions of Miss C.
However when I look at this period, I know Miss C would have presented as a capable, 
highly knowledgeable person about cars and what she wanted. Ive seen correspondence 
around this time with J when Miss C raised her concerns about the trade-in value of a car. I 
think she would have presented in a similar manner to VWFS. I think its most likely this would have resulted in them being willing to grant her a further credit agreement after having 
done any further checks.
Miss C believes VWFS should have carried out vulnerability checks. But Ive seen no 
evidence that she would have met any criteria they set for this. I know VWFS say they have 
no responsibility in this area but I disagree with them.
My conclusion that VWFS needs to do nothing further does not mean I doubt Miss Cs 
testimony. Just that my role means theres clear limits on what I consider. And having 
considered those aspects in full, I dont believe theres enough evidence to show VWFS has 
done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Cs complaint against 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman