DRN-1685995
 
The complaint
Mr C has complained Clydesdale Bank plc won't refund £1,774 for payments he didn't make 
from his account.
What happened
On 27 December 2019 Mr C went into his local Clydesdale branch. He'd seen seven 
transactions between £240 and £400 leave his account which he'd not made. He thought 
this must have happened on his old mobile phone which he'd stopped using as it no longer 
worked. 
Although these payments were made to someone he'd paid before, these payments weren't 
made by him as he no longer had any reason to pay this person. He'd also spoken to the 
person who he thought had received the money. He'd denied receiving any money. Mr C 
was anxious about what had happened as this left him with little money.
Clydesdale didn't believe what Mr C had told them.  He'd given them two different stories 
about his old mobile phone: either that it was in pieces and didn't work, or he'd given it to a 
friend. They wouldn't refund the money he'd lost from his account.
Mr C was extremely agitated and brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
After reviewing the evidence, including listening to phone calls between Mr C and 
Clydesdale, our investigator told Mr C that although he probably hadn't made the 
transactions, he'd allowed a third party to know his account details.  This had enabled 
someone else to access his banking app and make the transfers. He wouldn't be asking 
Clydesdale to refund Mr C.
Mr C disagreed with this outcome.  He's asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've reached roughly the 
same conclusion as our investigator.  I'll explain why.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. These primarily require banks 
to refund customers if they didn't make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply. In this case that's whether the customer, Mr C, acted in a grossly 
negligent manner which means the bank shouldn't refund him.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well as what Clydesdale and Mr C have told us. Some of what Clydesdale has shared with us is 
confidential. Ive also seen evidence from Mr Cs bank statements, as well as the calls 
between him and Clydesdale.  
I can see the timeline of events, each partys testimony and how the transactions were made 
were covered in our investigators view of 14 March 2020. I dont intend to repeat everything 
that was said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which form the basis of my 
decision. I can reassure Mr C and Clydesdale Ive read the file thoroughly. 
The following summarises what Ive considered:
There's no dispute the payments that were made went to a friend.  Mr C has called 
him an ex-lodger.  Payments had been made to him previously.
Mr C regularly put cash received from his wages into his account.  Cash is put into 
his Clydesdale account on four dates throughout December.  Two of these - 23 and 
27 December - cover the period when the disputed transactions took place.
These were made from 18 to 26 December 2019.
Mr C has told us and Clydesdale that he stopped using his old phone in December.  
It's certainly true the evidence shows he used the app on his new phone from 15 
December 2019.
He told us he believed his app on his old phone would be immediately deactivated 
when he set up a new phone.  The terms and conditions of Mr C's account don't 
confirm this.
Mr C has told contradictory stories about the mobile phone. He's suggested the old 
phone was completely out of action and then again that it was given to an ex-
girlfriend who must have used the app. I'd just confirm that it was clear how 
distressing Mr C found all this so it's not the contradictory stories alone which have 
led me to my decision.
Rather Mr C confirmed his ex-lodger had helped him set up his mobile banking but 
the login details were contained in his old phone.  He knew this when he gave his 
phone away. It's more than likely this allowed someone else to use his banking app 
and make the disputed payments.
Like our investigator, I consider leaving the details on his phone as he did as 
something more than carelessness.  This would constitute gross negligence taking 
everything else into account.
 
Its not my role to decide how someone else could have got hold of Mr Cs details, made 
these transactions or to investigate who that potential fraudster may be.
I can see in this case there's a scenario which explains how someone could have used Mr 
Cs account without his consent. However, that does involve Mr C contributing to what 
happened through acting in a grossly negligent manner.
Overall I believe there's also a chance Mr C knew about the transactions. But as I believe he 
acted in a grossly negligent manner I won't be asking Clydesdale to refund him.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr C's complaint against 
Clydesdale Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman