DRN-1242593
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy that Mr C took out in 1999 in connection with a 
mortgage that started in 2000. The policy provided cover for Mr C if he couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mr C didn't agree with 
the adjudicator's conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as 
those set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-           If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product      
it recommended was suitable for Mr Cs needs?
-           Did Halifax give Mr C the information he needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
C is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different  such as not 
taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr C's complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr C says Halifax gave him the impression he wouldn't get the mortgage he wanted if he 
didn't take the PPI, and that he wasnt given a proper choice about buying it. Ive noted 
everything Mr C has said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr C and Halifax 
when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events happened many years ago, and 
that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.I've noted that Mr C's mortgage application was completed to show that he wanted the PPI. 
And it seems Halifax offered other types of insurance that Mr C decided not to take. I've 
seen nothing in the application form to suggest that buying the PPI was a condition of getting 
the mortgage.
So without anything else to support what Mr C has told me, I don't think I can fairly and 
reasonably say that Halifax didn't make him aware that the PPI was optional.
Halifax has accepted that it advised Mr C to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say 
this because:
-           Mr C was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms 
and conditions.
-           Mr C says he was entitled to employer benefits if he couldnt work due to sickness or 
accident, and that he had some savings. I've noted that Mr C's mortgage application records 
don't refer to any savings, and that in his original complaint to this service he said he didn't 
have any savings at the time he bought the policy. 
But whether or not Mr C had any savings, the policy would've paid out in addition to his 
employer benefits and would've done so, it seems for longer. Having the policy in place 
wouldve meant he could use his employer benefits (and any savings he had) to pay for 
other expenses. So I still think the policy wouldve been useful to Mr C, despite his existing 
arrangements.
-          Mr C wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits,such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he needed better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
-          I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr C before he agreed to buy it. 
But he took out the cover knowing he would have to pay something for it. The policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr C would have made a 
different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr C wasnt affected by any of the exclusions 
or limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr C would 
have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think he 
would still have taken out the policy. 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman