DRN-1787309
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with Old Mutual Wealth Limiteds administration and reviews of 
their whole of life assurance plan. 
What happened
Our investigator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said he was satisfied Old Mutual 
had carried out reviews when they said they would. And he said its role during the reviews 
was to establish whether the amounts Mr and Mrs H were paying in premiums were enough 
to meet the cost of the insurance policy going forward  which is what Old Mutual had done. 
He felt that it was left up to Mr and Mrs H to decide whether they wanted to increase the 
premiums they paid. 
Mr and Mrs H have asked for an Ombudsman review. They said the review after the policy 
had been running for ten years was meaningless for this type of policy. They felt that Old 
Mutual shouldve at least provided a summary of whether there was a shortfall and what 
increase was required. They added that Old Mutuals administration isnt fit for whole of life 
policies. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr and Mrs H feel strongly about this complaint and this will come as 
a disappointment to them, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
I would also like to make it clear that each complaint is decided on its own facts and merits 
and Im not bound by what other ombudsmen might have found in other cases, whether 
similar to this one or not.
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Old Mutual carried out reviews of
Mr and Mrs Hs policy in line with the terms and conditions. I agree with the investigator that 
the purpose of the reviews was to assess whether the current premiums were enough to 
meet the costs associated with the policy and then to make Mr and Mrs H aware if this was 
not the case. Which Im satisfied it has done here. 
Any decision to increase the premiums was for Mr and Mrs H to make. And any discussion 
about the suitability of the cover going forward would be for them to review between 
themselves or seek advice from a financial advisor. Im satisfied Old Mutual hasnt done anything wrong here. So, Im not going to ask it to do 
anything more. 
I note Mr and Mrs H have raised a complaint previously about the sale of the policy against 
another business. As a result, I havent considered anything which relates to the sale and 
any advice they said they were given about the policy here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman