DRN-4133951
The complaint
Mr M complains that U K Insurance Limited (trading as Green Flag) is responsible for 
damage to his car when dealing with a claim he made under his breakdown policy.
Green Flag is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns 
the actions of its agent. As Green Flag has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
agent, in my decision, any reference to Green Flag includes the actions of the agent. 
What happened
In late 2022, Mr M contacted Green Flag because his car wouldnt start. Green Flag 
arranged for his car to be recovered to his home address. The next morning, a driver from a 
different service provider collected the car from Mr Ms home to take it to a garage. The 
second recovery driver highlighted damage to the cars front bumper. 
Mr M says this was the first time hed seen the damage and believes it must have happened 
while the car was being loaded to the recovery vehicle the previous day. Mr M arranged for 
the bumper to be inspected by a local body repair shop who quoted him £780 to repair the 
damage.
Mr M raised a complaint with Green Flag who said it didnt believe that the damage was 
caused by the first recovery of the vehicle. However, as the first service provider didnt notice 
the damage or note it on their condition report, it would reimburse Mr M 50% of the repair 
costs. It said it would send Mr M a cheque for £390.
Mr M remained unhappy and asked our service to consider the matter. Our investigator 
didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He thought Green Flag had acted fairly by 
paying 50% of the cost of repairs.
Mr M disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said he didnt believe he should have to 
seek an independent report by a qualified technician to support his view that his car had 
been damaged in the loading process. He queried why a comment from Green Flags 
engineer was accepted as factual when the report from his repair garage was not. He said 
hed witnessed photographs being taken during and before the first recovery. He said Green 
Flag were either choosing to withhold evidence or the recovery agent had not provided it to 
them. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure Mr M that I have considered all of his points. Ive focused my comments 
on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe it has affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M says he wasnt aware of the damage to his vehicle until it was pointed out to him by 
Green Flags second service provider. He strongly believes it must have been caused by the 
first service provider when recovering his car, the previous evening. 
Mr M has provided a copy of the invoice from the garage that fixed the damage, which 
describes the damage as:
Impact to bottom of the nsf bumper caused whilst being recovered. Bumper showing scrape 
marks underneath causing bumper to crack.
Green Flag doesnt agree that it is responsible for the damage to Mr Ms car. It has provided 
comments from an engineer who reviewed photographs of the damage:
This does not look like recovery related damage, there is [sic] scratches from an impact 
where the bumper is split, this his high up on the bumper the car was winched from the rear, 
the front of the car would not come into contact with any part of the truck, the car is not low 
and it was a fully demountable bed meaning there is no chance the bumper would have 
came [sic] into contact with the bed.
Green Flag has provided photographs that support what its said about the recovery truck 
having a fully demountable bed and Mr Ms car being winched from the rear. 
Mr M has questioned the independence of Green Flags engineer and why our investigator 
didnt accept the report from his garage as factual. I dont have a detailed report from either 
party which explains how the damage occurred. I appreciate Mr M feels that more weight 
should be given to the description on the garages invoice. But Mr M already believed the 
damage was caused during the recovery when he took his car to be fixed. I think its likely 
that he would have told the garage that. So, the description on the invoice isnt enough to 
persuade me that the only event that could have caused the damage was the recovery of the 
car.
Mr M didnt witness the damage occurring and I havent seen any photographs to show that 
the damage wasnt already there prior to the initial recovery of the car. I appreciate Mr M 
believes that the absence of these photographs means that either Green Flag or the 
recovery agent are withholding evidence. However, I can see that Green Flag asked the 
recovery agent to provide images of the car before it was loaded onto the recovery truck, 
and it said the only images it had were the ones it had provided showing the car being 
loaded at the scene.
I acknowledge what Mr M has said about the driver taking photographs of the car prior to 
loading it on to the recovery truck. But this isnt enough to persuade me that evidence was 
deliberately being withheld. 
Its possible that the damage did occur during the recovery of the vehicle, but I havent seen 
strong enough evidence to persuade me that it did. Green Flag has paid Mr M 50% of the 
cost of repairs. And I think this is reasonable under the circumstances. So, while I appreciate 
this will be disappointing for Mr M, I dont require Green Flag to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman