DRN-2972475
The complaint
Mr S and Ms S have complained about the handling of their claim by a loss assessor,
Brooklin Claims Consultants Ltd. Mr S and Ms S appointed Brooklin to deal with a claim on
their behalf following a burglary and fire at their home.
The lead complainant in this case is Mr S, so for ease Ill refer to him mainly in my decision.
But the complaint comes from both Mr S and Ms S.
All reference to Brooklin in my decision includes the contractors appointed by them to carry
out works.
What happened
In September 2018 Mr Ss home was burgled and damaged by fire. They appointed Brooklin
to deal with the claim on their behalf. In March 2019 Mr S and Ms S moved out in order for
reinstatement works to be completed. In June 2019 Mr S and Ms S moved back into their
home. But Mr S identified works that hadnt been carried out, or not completed to their
satisfaction.
In August 2019 Mr S raised a complaint to Brooklin about the following issues:
Windows and doors to the property had been replaced in December 2018 and 
April 2019 but no guarantees had been obtained from the installer. The installer 
went into administration approximately five months after the replacement.
The replacement front door hadnt been fitted properly.
The replacement alarm didnt work properly.
There were problems with drainage from the shower in an upstairs bathroom.
Mr S was unhappy with the standard of decoration to a number of rooms.
Brooklin said it would work with the contractors to ensure the outstanding issues were
resolved. However, in August 2020 Mr S raised a further complaint with Brooklin. The issues
he raised were the same as hed raised a year ago as they remained unresolved.
In October 2020 Mr S brought their complaint to us. Brooklin had told Mr S that the issue
with the shower drain wasnt as a result of works carried out by the contractor. It said it could
arrange for the issue to be investigated by removing part of the kitchen ceiling. But if it was
found that the issue wasnt a result of the contractors works, then Mr S would be
responsible for the rectification repairs.
In December 2020 Mr S instructed his contractor to remove part of the kitchen ceiling in
order to investigate the issue with the shower. Mr Ss contractor found there was an issue
relating to the pipe and relocation as a result of works carried out by Brooklins contractor.
The alarm required replacing along with the front door. All works  apart from the
outstanding decorating issues  were completed by February 2021.
During this time, solicitors acting for the contractor appointed by Brooklin wrote to Mr S.
They intended to claim for the costs for the balance of the works. Brooklin hadnt paid the
contractor in full for the works due to Mr Ss complaint. After Mr S provided evidence of the
decorating issues to the solicitor, they offered a non-negotiable settlement of £1,000 to Mr S
as a cash sum to settle the matter and prevent court action. Mr S accepted.
Our investigator issued the first of two views to both parties in April 2021. He recommended
Brooklin pay Mr S and Ms S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
by its poor service and delay.
Brooklin accepted the investigators first view. Mr S didnt. He reiterated his view that
Brooklin should have used an installer for the windows and doors that was appropriately
registered so that  in the event of no longer existing  the guarantees for the works were
still protected. Mr S felt this should have been the case as this was an insurance claim.
He provided further information in relation to the outstanding decorating issues. And Mr S
explained that not having a working alarm or properly fitted front door caused considerable
worry for them, in particular for Ms S  in light of having been recently burgled. Mr S said
that £150 compensation isnt enough to reflect the distress and inconvenience Brooklins
handling of the claim caused them.
The investigator issued a second view in May 2021. On reconsideration, he thought Brooklin
should pay Mr S and Ms S a further £350 compensation for the loss of expectation and
distress caused by not having an insurance backed guarantee for the replacement windows
and door. He thought it was good industry practice for Brooklin to have instructed an installer
that was registered appropriately so that the guarantees were protected if the installer were
to go out of business.
The investigator looked at a quote Mr S had provided for decoration works to put things right.
And he considered the fact Mr S had received £1,000 toward the costs of rectification works.
The investigator couldnt tell from the quote if the works were for rectification only or included
additional works. So the investigator recommended Brooklin appoint an independent
contractor to inspect the decorating issues that remained in dispute. Based on their schedule
of works (SOW), he thought Brooklin should pay the balance if there is a balance  after
deducting the £1,000 already paid  to Mr S and Ms S.
The investigator maintained his view that Brooklin should pay £150 compensation for the
delays and poor service provided.
Mr S accepted most of the investigators second view. But he was concerned that Brooklin
were essentially being given a further opportunity in relation to the decorating. Mr S wants
the matter to be settled.
Brooklin said Mr S had accepted £1,000 as settlement for the decorating issues. So it didnt
think this issue should be considered again by us. Our investigator explained the agreement
was made between the solicitor and Mr S in relation to preventing court action. This didnt
prevent us from considering the complaint and what is fair and reasonable.
In June 2021 Brooklin went on to accept the investigators second view. But shortly after it
said it wasnt prepared to appoint an independent decorator. It said the quote provided by Mr
S is far outside the scope of rectification repairs  and it believes they have been fairly
compensated for this matter with the £1,000 settlement.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 August 2021. I thought a fairer compensation award for 
the distress and inconvenience caused was £350. I agreed with the investigators remaining 
recommendations. Mr S and Ms S accepted my provisional decision. Brooklin said it wants clarification around 
the concerns it has with the decoration complaint and the quote provided. It says the quote 
includes works for more rooms than previously discussed and there is a discrepancy. 
As both parties have replied, the case has been returned to me for a final decision.
Brooklin didnt comment on the rest of my intentions set out under my provisional decision . 
So Ive addressed their comments about the decorating in my findings below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For ease, Ive set out the complaints under headings below.
Guarantee for replacement windows and doors
The front door and several windows to Mr and Ms Ss property were replaced by an installer
between December 2018 and April 2019. No guarantees were available when the installer
went out of business over five months later.
Installers can choose to register with companies that provide an insurance backed
guarantee in the event of the installer going out of business  so that the customer doesnt
lose the benefit of such guarantees.
I think it was entirely reasonable for Mr S to expect Brooklin to ensure that repair and
replacement works were guaranteed under their insurance claim. I appreciate that Brooklin
arranged for the windows to be certified for building regulation purposes, but this isnt the
same as providing a guarantee.
Mr S has pointed out that the new installer who replaced the front door was appropriately
registered. I will address the issue of delay later in my decision.
For the loss of expectation and inconvenience and worry caused to Mr S and Ms S, I think
Brooklin should pay them compensation of £350.
Replacement and repairs to the alarm, front door and shower drain pipe
Its clear that there were issues with the replacement alarm, replacement front door and
shower drain which Mr S first raised with Brooklin in June 2019. I dont intend to repeat the
issues in detail here. But Ive considered the timeline of events and the correspondence
which was ongoing between Brooklin and Mr S since June 2019. Mr S said the estimated
time for the repairs to be completed when they moved out was given as two to four weeks.
However, these issues werent resolved until February 2021. The alarm and front door
required replacing. The issue Mr S raised about the shower drainage was denied by
Brooklins contractor for several months, but required them to put it right after Mr S and Ms S
had the further inconvenience of having part of their kitchen ceiling removed to reveal poor
workmanship in December 2020.
I can understand the worry and distress caused by not having a working alarm and properly
fitted front door in any event  but even more so in Mr S and Ms Ss circumstances as they
had recently been burgled.I think the ongoing issues and delays caused in this claim show the service Mr S received
from Brooklin was poor. I think the worry, distress and inconvenience caused was
considerable. I think it took an unreasonable length of time for Brooklin to deal with the
outstanding issues first raised in June 2019 and its clear from the correspondence that Mr S
took a significant amount of time to have the issues he raised properly dealt with.
So I dont think compensation of £150 for the worry and distress caused by the poor service
and delays is enough in this case. I think a fairer sum is £350 and in line with awards we
give for similar cases.
Decorating
It isnt in dispute that some of the decorating works carried out by Brooklins contractor are
poor. Mr S has provided several photos and video footage to show the issues he remains
unhappy about. And hes provided a quote from a decorator. 
In my provisional decision I explained that this quote is for the stripping out and full 
redecoration of all bedrooms, the dining room and the lounge. So I was unable to safely 
conclude which works Brooklin are responsible for as a result of poor decoration repairs by 
their contractor  and what is a reasonable sum to put things right.
In response to my provisional decision, Brooklin asked us to clarify the discrepancy in the 
quote and to explain why other rooms are included in the quote. Its also asked for 
consideration of the fact the works were carried out in 2019 and the property has been lived 
in since. 
However, I agreed that the decorating quote provided isnt enough to make a decision about 
the contractors repairs. And even though the works were carried out in 2019, I maintain the 
view that the fairest outcome is for Brooklin to appoint an independent decorator to inspect 
the works carried out by the previous contractor and provide a SOW. As Mr S has received 
£1,000 toward the costs to put the decorating works right, I think Brooklin can deduct this 
sum from any balance set out on the SOW  and if a balance remains, this should be 
promptly paid as a cash settlement to Mr S and Ms S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Brooklin Claims Consultants
Ltd to do the following:
Pay Mr S and Ms S £350 for the loss of expectation in respect of having no
guarantees for the replacement windows due to not using an insurance backed
registered installer for an insurance claim.
Pay Mr S and Ms S £350 for the worry, distress and inconvenience caused by
Brooklins poor service and delays.
Instruct an independent decorator to assess the previous contractors decorating
works and provide a SOW. Brooklin should pay any balance set out on the SOW
after deducting £1,000 which Mr S and Ms S have already received. 
Brooklin Claims Consultants Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr S and Ms S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
a simple rate of 8% a year.If Brooklin Claims Consultants Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S and Ms S how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr S and Ms S a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman