DRN-3460459
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc1 trading as Hitachi Personal Finances 
(Hitachi) handling of her complaint under Section 75 (S75) Consumer Credit Act 1974.
At times during this complaint, Mr G has been involved too. But as the agreement is solely in 
Mrs Gs name, Ill refer to her throughout this decision. 
What happened
In May 2018 Mrs G purchased a kitchen from a retailer, who Ill refer to as B. The total
amount for the kitchen was £20,000. Mrs G paid a deposit of £2,000 and entered into a fixed
sum loan agreement for the remaining £18,000. She was required to make 36 monthly
repayments of £500.
The kitchen was for Mrs Gs parents and began to be installed at their property by B in
October 2018. There were numerous delays during the installation and the kitchen wasnt
completed by B. The installer that B subcontracted also went out of business. So, in
December 2018 Mrs G arranged for her own contractor to complete the rest of the kitchen
installation and paid £2,772.55 for this.
Unhappy with the situation, Mrs G complained to B. B agreed to reimburse Mrs G for some
of the additional installation costs incurred, but not the total amount. Mrs G referred the
matter to an alternative dispute resolution organisation, who Ill refer to as F, in February
2019.
F concluded that B hadnt completed its contract with Mrs G. F awarded Mrs G the full
amount of the additional installation costs shed paid to her own contractor totalling
£2,772.55, as well as a compensation award of £264 for what it labelled as four months of
delay, disruption and inconvenience caused by B. Mrs G didnt accept this amount  she felt
she was entitled to more and that more work was still required to finish the kitchen entirely.
As Mrs G remained unhappy, she contacted Hitachi and made a S75 claim. Hitachi accepted
there had been a breach of contract and Mrs Gs S75 claim was a valid one. However, they
said that Fs decision to award Mrs G the total amount shed paid her contractor, and their
compensation offer, was still available for Mrs G to accept. Hitachi felt it was a reasonable
offer. They asked Mrs G to contact F or B if she wanted to accept it. They did recognise
some delays in their process too and offered Mrs G £310 compensation.
Mrs G didnt accept and brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into
things and confirmed there were five points being complained about to Hitachi as part of the
S75 claim. They were:
The collection of waste from the property.
The supply of the gas and electrical certificates.
1 Referred to on Mrs Gs credit agreement as the formerly named Hitachi Capital (UK) PLC trading as 
Hitachi Personal Finance.
The gas leak that occurred during the initial installation by B.
The qualifications of Bs installers and;
The floor tiling.
He confirmed that the waste had been collected and the gas and electrical certificates had 
been supplied. He didnt comment on the qualifications of Bs installers as he said he was 
satisfied there had been a breach of contract and this included any work completed by Bs 
installers as part of the service being provided. He didnt think Hitachi had acted unfairly in 
relation to the gas leak that occurred. He also didnt there had been a breach of contract with 
the floor tiling. Hitachi had previously asked for an independent inspection to take place, as 
there were concerns the tiles were cracking due to unstable floor joists, as opposed to 
anything Bs installers had done. No independent report had been sought so our investigator 
felt Hitachi couldnt be held responsible for that aspect. Our investigator said that Fs 
decision was still available for Mrs G to accept, either through them or direct with B and he 
felt the outcome was a fair one. Because of that, he didnt think Hitachi had acted unfairly in 
how theyd dealt with Mrs Gs S75 claim.
Mrs G didnt accept our investigators opinion. She feels she should receive back £14,000,
which she calculated to be the cost of the installation.
As Mrs G didnt accept, it was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 
19 April 2022. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice.
In this case the relevant law includes S75 Consumer Credit Act 1974. S75 says that in
certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim
against the credit provider if theres either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the
supplier of goods or services. This is subject to certain criteria that need to be satisfied such
as the claim has to be within specific financial limits and the existence of debtor-creditor-
supplier (DCS) relationship between the parties.
I find these criteria have been met here. Although the kitchen was installed in Mrs Gs
parents house, I think Mrs G was at least a joint contracting party. Her name is on most of
the available paperwork with B. For example, the sales invoice is specifically addressed to
Mrs G and from what I have seen of the pre-contract negotiations, these were carried out by
Mrs G also. So, I think it was most likely both Mrs Gs and Bs intention to contract with each 
other for the supply and installation of the kitchen in Mrs Gs parents home. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant to this complaint. It says that, under a
contract to supply services, there is an implied term that any service being provided (such as
the installation of the kitchen in this case) must be carried out with reasonable care and
skill.
In considering whether the installation of the kitchen was carried out with reasonable care
and skill, it is relevant that F, an expert in this area, has already looked at Mrs Gs
complaints about B. They concluded that B didnt complete their contract with Mrs G and
recommended that B pay Mrs G the cost of the necessary rectification work plus some
compensation. Hitachi have also agreed that there has been a breach of contract here 
which I agree with based on the evidence Ive seen and the conclusions of F. So, all I need
to decide is the best way to resolve this now.Generally the purpose of an award of damages in a claim for breach of contract is to put the
party back in the position they would have been in if the contract had been performed
properly and there are similar provisions within the CRA. With a complaint like Mrs Gs this
would generally involve requiring the supplier to carry out the work again to the appropriate
standard, or in some cases a price reduction to reflect the incomplete or substandard work.
In this case, Mrs G appointed her own contractor to complete the installation as Bs
subcontracted installer went out of business before it could finish the job or rectify any
substandard work. And from what Mrs G has told us her contractor rectified what needed
doing to her satisfaction. Its not fair for Mrs G to have to pay her contractor for this as well
as pay the cost of the installation to B. Indeed, F decided that B should pay Mrs G the full
cost of the rectification work she had done. Im satisfied that a refund of the cost of this
additional work is fair compensation because it puts Mrs G in the position she would have
been in had the installation been performed with reasonable care and skill to begin with.
I know Mrs G wants a refund of £14,000. But this wouldnt be appropriate here because it
would place her in a better position than she would have been if the work had been carried
out with reasonable care and skill. A price reduction  although not as much as this  might
have been an appropriate solution if Mrs G hadnt already carried out rectification work
seeing as B didnt appear able to put things right within reasonable time. But seeing as she
has, and that looks to have remedied Bs breach of contract, the fair thing here is that she is
reimbursed for the cost of this. It wouldnt be fair if Mrs G received the cost of the rectification
work and a price reduction as, again, this would put her in a better position than she would
have been in had the work been completed to the appropriate standard by B.
From what Ive seen the offer from B is still available to refund Mrs G the total amount she
paid her own contractor to complete the work, plus compensation for the delays seen.
Mrs G should therefore contact B (or F) to arrange for the payment to be made to her. If,
however, B is unwilling to make this payment now then, taking account of Hitachis liability to
Mrs G for breach of contract under S75, they should pay the £2,772.55 to Mrs G. I consider
it fair if Hitachi requires Mrs G to show them that B will not pay before doing this.
While F determined that B should pay Mrs G compensation of £264 for delay, disruption and
inconvenience I cant reasonably ask Hitachi to pay this to Mrs G. I say this because Im
considering Hitachis liability to Mrs G under S75. So, I need to consider here what a court
would likely award for breach of contract. And courts will generally only make awards for
non-financial losses such as distress or inconvenience in limited circumstances. While
discomfort and distress caused by a breach of contract for the provision of building works is
generally one of those circumstances, the discomfort and distress was not suffered by Mrs G 
because the work did not take place in her home. So, thinking about Hitachis liability to Mrs 
G under S75, it wouldnt be fair to ask them to pay her compensation for distress and 
inconvenience caused by B in this case. If the offer to pay this is still available from B 
however then Mrs G is of course free to contact them to accept it. 
Mrs G has also raised concerns about the gas leak that occurred during the kitchen
installation, and her upset that she wasnt notified about it until the following day. She has
said her parents were at the property the whole time, and her children had been there for
some of the time too. She feels that should be acknowledged. I dont underestimate her
strength of feeling about this but for the same reasons Ive explained in the paragraph
above, I cant fairly ask Hitachi to pay Mrs G compensation for this.
The last issue to decide on is the floor tiles, and why they are cracking after the completion
of the kitchen. During the discussions with B and Mrs Gs appointed contractor, it was saidthat the floor joists may be unstable, which was causing the tiles to crack, and an
independent report was recommended. Mrs G hasnt had this report done and there isnt any
evidence to suggest the cracking of the tiles was caused during the installation of the kitchen
or whether it was caused by any other reason. Because of that I cant hold Hitachi
responsible for it.
In their final response to Mrs G, Hitachi have offered her £310 compensation and apologised
for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced. The complaint was logged with
Hitachi in February 2019 and the final response wasnt issued to Mrs G until September
2019. Im aware that during this time, Hitachi were in contact with B to try and arrange for the
waste to be collected and the gas and electrical certificates to be provided to Mrs G, but I do
think seven months was a long time for her to wait for an answer. That said, Im satisfied that
Hitachis offer is a generous one and reflects their genuine concern that things had taken too
long.
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I outlined the relevant rules and guidelines in my provisional decision, so I wont repeat them 
here. 
As neither party has responded to the provisional decision with any additional information for 
me to consider, I see no reason to depart from it. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as 
Hitachi Personal Finance must:
Reimburse Mrs G £2,772.55 for the completion of the work carried out by her 
contractor (provided Mrs G evidences that B is now not willing to make this payment).
Pay Mrs G 8% simple interest on this amount from the date Hitachi declined the S75 
claim (22 September 2019) until the date it is settled (if applicable).*
Pay Mrs G £310 compensation for the delays in dealing with her claim. 
*If Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Hitachi Personal Finance considers that theyre 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell 
Mrs G how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mrs G a tax deduction certificate if 
she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman