DRN-3549081
Complaint
Miss R has complained about loans Chetwood Financial Services Limited (trading as Live 
Lend) provided to her. She says that she shouldnt have been accepted for such a large 
loan on a low income.
Background
Live Lend provided Miss R with a loan for £5,000.00 in April 2018. This loan had an APR of 
11% and the total amount of £6,119.17, which included interest of £1,119.17, was due to be 
repaid in 48 monthly instalments of just over £127. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss R and Live Lend had told us. And she thought 
that Live Lend hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss R unfairly. So she didnt 
recommend that Miss Rs complaint be upheld. Miss R disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Rs complaint.
Live Lend needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Live Lend needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether  
Miss R could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Live Lend provided Miss R with a loan for £5,000.00 in April 2018. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 48 instalments of just over £127. Live Lend says it agreed to Miss Rs application 
after she provided details of her monthly income and some information on her expenditure. It 
says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out and all of this 
information showed Miss R could comfortably make the repayments she was committing to. 
On the other hand, Miss R has said she should never have been accepted for such a large 
loan on a low income.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss R and Live Lend have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Live Lend has provided the details of its credit searches. 
Live Lend having carried out credit checks shows that it didnt simply rely on what Miss R 
said and that it took some steps to check at least some of the information she provided in 
her application. Live Lend searches appear to show that Miss Rs existing commitments 
were relatively well maintained. Crucially, according to the credit searches, Miss Rs debt 
total at the time of the applications was also reasonable in comparison to her income and 
they appeared to be relatively well managed. And there isnt anything else obvious in the 
information gathered which leads me to think that further checks would have been 
reasonable and proportionate.
I accept that Miss Rs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information Live Lend obtained. Equally I accept that if Live 
Lend had obtained Miss Rs bank statements in the same way a mortgage provider would  
it may have seen why Miss R says it shouldnt have lent to her and reached a different 
decision. 
But the key here is that Live Lend wasnt providing Miss R with a mortgage. It was providing 
an unsecured loan for a much smaller sum with relatively low monthly payments. Its only fair 
and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something 
wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think 
that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended into doing anything further. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Live Lend did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Miss R - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Live Lend treated Miss R unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with her loan. And Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint. I appreciate this will 
be very disappointing for Miss R. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman