DRN-3637108
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. only agreed to offer a proportionate settlement of a claim made under his travel 
insurance policy. 
Hes also unhappy with the assistance he received when first notifying Mapfre of the 
circumstances which led to his claim.
Although Mr S is being represented in this complaint, Ive referred to him throughout as hes 
the policyholder. 
What happened
Mr S had the benefit of an annual travel insurance policy, underwritten by Mapfre (the 
policy). He travelled abroad in December 2019. Unfortunately, whilst away, Mr S fell ill and 
required medical treatment. He was hospitalised for many days.
He made a claim on the policy to cover certain costs including his medical expenses, an 
internal flight, and a pre-booked tour hed missed.  
Mapfre agreed to cover 61% of his claim. Thats because it said Mr S hadnt taken 
reasonable care to answer medical questions correctly when taking out the policy. If hed 
answered a question differently, and in the way he shouldve, Mapfre says he wouldve been 
charged more for the policy. So, it said it would pay a proportionate share of the expenses 
claimed. 
Mapfre also accepted that the service it provided Mr S was below the standard it would 
expect. It apologised and offered him £300 compensation in recognition of this. 
Mr S didnt think that was fair, so complained to our service. Our investigator looked into 
what happened. He didnt think Mapfre had unfairly concluded that Mr S shouldve answered 
yes to a particular question when taking out the policy. And he was satisfied, that if Mr S 
had done so, the policy wouldve cost more. He asked Mapfre to settle 61% of the costs 
directly with the medical providers (if they remained outstanding) or to pay Mapfres 
contribution to certain costs directly to Mr S, if theyd already been paid by him.
Our investigator also recommended that Mapfre pay an additional £100 to Mr S to represent 
the distress and inconvenience hed experienced as a result of Mapfres service failings. 
Mapfre accepted our investigators view. Mr S replied to say that Mapfre had only ever paid 
around £535 towards medical costs. It said Mapfre should therefore pay an additional sum in 
excess of £6,000 to represent 61% of the claimed costs. He also said he was disappointed 
that our investigator didnt make any recommendation for Mapfre to contribute towards his 
legal costs.
Our investigator subsequently issued a further view recommending Mapfre pay Mr S simple 
interest at a rate of 8% per annum for any costs hed paid himself from the date payment 
was made until Mapfre refunded him those amounts.
Mapfre accepted this and asked for Mr Ss bank details. These were provided and Mapfre 
paid Mr S around £4,300. However, this was less than Mr S was expecting and Mapfre didnt 
provide a breakdown of the payments made  and what they covered. 
Our investigator asked Mapfre for a breakdown which was provided and passed on to Mr S.
Mr S then provided a detailed breakdown of the amounts he was claiming, the amounts that 
had already been paid by him (along with documentary evidence) and by Mapfre. This 
breakdown was passed to Mapfre but, ultimately, a final amount couldnt be agreed between 
the parties. Although Mapfre did say that, subject to Mr S providing proof of payment and 
invoices, it would consider paying certain claimed expenses. 
So, the complaint was referred to an Ombudsman to determine. 
I looked at the amounts in dispute and, in October 2022, I set out to parties my 
understanding of the amounts which remained outstanding and owed to Mr S. I also 
explained why simple interest at a rate of 8% should be added to certain outstanding 
amounts but why I didnt think it was fair and reasonable for Mapfre to have to contribute to 
the costs of Mr Ss legal representatives. 
I did, however, say that I intended to direct Mapfre to pay Mr S £600 in total (so another 
£200) to reflect the distress and inconvenience Mapfre had caused him in this case. I invited 
the parties to provide any further comments.
Mapfre didnt reply. Mr S didnt disagree with my calculations but asked me to confirm the 
exact amount of interest Mapfre should pay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mapfres decision to pay 61% of the claimed amounts 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Mapfre says, when taking out the policy and answering the medical questions, Mr S failed to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. So it only agreed to cover 61% of his 
claimed costs. 
I think Mapfres position was fair and reasonable because: When taking out the policy Mr S was asked In the last 2 years have you or any 
person insured on the policy suffered from or received any form of medical advice or 
treatment or medication for:.. (a) any blood circulatory condition including, but not 
limited to, high blood pressure, hypertension or high cholesterol?... Mr S answered 
no to that question. But when Mapfre reviewed Mr Ss medical records there was 
reference to him taking medication usually associated with high cholesterol. So, 
Mapfre says he shouldve answered yes to this question.
Mr S says that he wasnt aware that the medication hed been prescribed was to 
lower his cholesterol and that hed answered the questions to the best of his 
knowledge. But having looked at the medical evidence, I dont think Mapfre has 
unreasonably concluded that Mr S is likely to have been aware of the reason why he 
was taking the medication in question, particularly as it looks like he wasnt taking 
much other medication.
So, I think Mr Ss misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA. Im satisfied 
that had Mr S answered yes to the question the cost of the policy wouldve been 
higher. And that Mr S effectively paid 61% for the policy than he wouldve done if he 
hadnt answered the question carelessly. 
Outstanding elements of the claim:
Both parties agree with the exchange rate to be used when calculating the expenses 
incurred and being claimed for, which were paid in local currency. 
Taking into account payments already made to Mr S by Mapfre, I explained to the parties in 
October 2022 that Id calculated the outstanding sum owed to Mr S to be £3,085.71. This 
included the outstanding hospital benefit of £30. Mr S was in hospital for 14 days but Mapfre 
had only paid a hospital benefit representing 13 days.
Neither party disagreed with that.
Interest
With reference to the spreadsheet which was compiled by Mr S and sent to Mapfre on 18 
July 2022 setting out the amounts claimed - and having considered the evidence - Im 
satisfied that Mr S paid items 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 in full. 
So, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Mapfre to pay simple interest at a rate of 8% 
per annum on:
-  the difference between the full amount Mr S paid and 39% of each amount (this 
being the amount Mr S is responsible for paying) from the date each payment was 
made by him to the date on which Mapfre makes payment to him.
- the hospital benefit from the date on which his claim was accepted to the date on 
which the first payment was made towards the end of the 2021  and on any 
outstanding payment of the hospital benefit to the date its paid.
From all interest amounts, Mapfre can deduct any interest payments already paid to Mr S  
in response to our investigators view - if they cover any of the periods mentioned above.
I also think Mapfre should give Mr S with a clear breakdown of all the interest calculations 
paid to him. Mr S has asked that I set out the specific amount of interest Mapfre should pay. I dont think 
thats for our service to do, especially as the amount of interest to be paid is dependent on 
the date on which Mapfre makes payment to Mr S for the outstanding amounts. But theres 
nothing stopping Mr S (or his representative) forwarding his interest calculation to Mapfre to 
consider.
Customer service issues
Mapfre accepts that its communication with Mr S was poor and that it couldve been more 
proactive in requesting his medical records, so it was in a better position to advise him on 
cover sooner, when he was still in hospital. Failing which, it said it couldve also offered to 
cover his medical expenses in full on a disclaimer basis  subject to Mr Ss written 
guarantee to reimburse all of part of the outlay of the claim which fell wholly or partly outside 
the scope of policy cover. 
It offered Mr S £300 in recognition of this and apologised. It later agreed to pay an additional 
£100 as recommended by our Investigator.  
Given the length of time this claim has gone on for and given that there are parts of the claim 
that remain outstanding  which Mapfre hasnt made a 61% contribution towards  I dont 
think £400 is enough to reflect the distress and inconvenience experienced by the continuing 
and unnecessary delays.
I know Mr S is being represented but I accept that he would be frustrated to know that 
Mapfre has asked for the same evidence in support of his claim on a number of occasions  
which has already been provided to it. This has impacted the progress of the claim. 
I think £600 would be a fairer amount. So, Mapfre should pay Mr S an additional £200 for 
distress and inconvenience in addition to the £400 its offered.
Legal fees 
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable in this case for Mapfre to reimburse Mr S for his 
legal costs (or to pay a contribution towards them). I appreciate the point thats been made 
about Mr Ss medical condition, but it was his choice to seek - and pay for - legal assistance 
to contact Mapfre about his claim and to raise a complaint with our service. Im not 
persuaded that he couldnt do so without legal assistance.
Putting things right
Within 28 days from the date on which we notify Mapfre that Mr S accepts this final decision, 
I direct it to:(i) pay Mr S the sum of £3,085.71 in settlement of his claim.
(ii) pay simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum on the difference between the 
full amount Mr S paid in respect of items 1  5 inclusive (as detailed on Mr Ss 
spreadsheet sent to the Mapfre on 18 July 2022) and 39% of each amount 
(this being the amount Mr S is responsible for paying) from the date each 
payment was made by him to the date on which Mapfre makes payment to 
him.
(iii) pay simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum on the hospital benefit paid to 
Mr S from the date on which his claim was accepted to the date on which the 
first payment was made towards the end of the 2021  and on any 
outstanding hospital benefit paid to Mr S to the date its paid.
(iv) provide Mr S with a clear breakdown of all the interest calculations paid to 
him. 
(v) pay Mr S £600 compensation for distress and inconvenience in total (from this 
it can deduct the £400 its already agreed to pay, if payment has already been 
made).
From the interest amounts, detailed at (ii) and (iii) above Mapfre can deduct any interest 
payments already paid to Mr S  in response to our investigators view - if they cover any of 
those periods.
If Mapfre considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any 
interest paid, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate 
showing this if asked for one. That way Mr S can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman