DRN-4215689
The complaint
Ms E and Mr E are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE didnt settle their claim in full 
and with the service they received.
What happened
Mr E booked a holiday for himself and Ms E in February 2022. They were due to stay at two 
different properties in the UK in early June 2022. At the same time Mr E took out two single 
trip insurance policies to cover each of the accommodation bookings.
In March 2022 Ms E identified a lump on her breast and saw her GP the following day. She 
was referred to a consultant and was subsequently diagnosed with breast cancer in April 
2022. The medical evidence confirms that Ms E had noticed the lump three weeks before 
this appointment, so some time after the policy was taken out.
At that time Mr E and Ms E planned to continue with their bookings as there was no medical 
advice suggesting she shouldnt go away. Ms E started treatment and then was admitted to 
hospital with an infection. In late May 2022, shortly before their holiday was due to begin, the 
consultant advised her to not travel.
Mr E claimed on the travel insurance policies. Great Lakes partially settled the claims and Mr 
E made a complaint. Great Lakes said in their final response letter that there had been an 
error when assessing the claim but the decision to settle the claim in part was ultimately 
correct. They said Ms E hadnt told them about the change in her health as required by the 
policy terms and conditions. So, they still thought a partial settlement of the claim was fair.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. He thought that 
Ms E ought to have disclosed her change in health to Great Lakes. But, he didnt think Great 
Lakes had provided evidence to show that they wouldnt have offered cover or would have 
done so on different terms. So, he recommended the cancellation claim should be covered 
in full. He also awarded £100 compensation for the poor service Ms E and Mr E received, 
including them having to re-send information about Ms Es diagnosis.
Ms E and Mr E accepted the investigators recommendation, but Great Lakes didnt reply. 
So, the case was passed to me to make a decision. 
In June 2020 I issued a provisional decision. I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility 
to handle claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I think the policy terms make it clear that Ms E needed to let them know about a 
change in her health between the date the policy was taken out and the date the 
holiday is due to begin. It says that if the policyholder doesnt take appropriate action 
then the claim may be rejected or not fully paid. This information is set out on pages 
three and twelve of the policy document. However, Im upholding this complaint for 
the reasons Ill go on to explain.
Ms E was referred to the breast clinic who confirmed the presence of two lumps on 6 
April and advised that theyd need to see her for biopsy results. On 20 April a 
consultant confirmed that the lumps were cancerous and discussed treatment 
options. A further appointment took place on 28 April. At that point in time Ms E was 
still planning to travel and there was no medical advice to say that she shouldnt. The 
full balances for the trips were paid on the 22 and 29 April following the appointments 
with the consultants.
It's not in dispute that Ms E couldnt have declared her condition at the point the 
policies were taken out in February 2022. She didnt identify the lump until weeks 
later and saw her GP the next day. Thats consistent with the medical evidence from 
6 April 2022 which says she had a three week history of tender left breast lump. So, 
for the avoidance of doubt, I dont think there was any failure to disclose the condition 
at the point the policy was taken out based on the evidence thats available.
Ive gone on to think about when Ms E ought to have disclosed her change in health 
to Great Lakes. I recognise that at this time Ms E was dealing with a significant life 
event and medical diagnosis  its reflected in the medical evidence from the 
consultant that she was, understandably, upset and worried.
I do think Mr E or Ms E ought to have contacted their insurer after receiving the 
cancer diagnosis and before travelling on their holiday. Thats what the policy terms 
required them to do. But Ive also taken into account what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this case.
Great Lakes required Ms E to take appropriate action and there is no specific 
requirement theyve highlighted which says she should contact them before paying 
the final balance. I bear in mind that the final balances were both paid within around 
a week of the appointments confirming the diagnosis and the medical advice was 
that Ms E didnt need to cancel her break.
The information Great Lakes has provided is also somewhat contradictory on what 
Ms E would have been told if shed contacted Great Lakes for advice before paying 
the balance. They said they would have declined to cover the new condition and told 
Ms E to come back to them when her investigations and treatment were complete. 
And they said that if shed told them shed still intended to travel theyd have informed 
her shed need to seek cover elsewhere.
But they also said that where a consumer asks what they should do, pay the balance 
or cancel, they would have advised them to discuss the matter with their GP or 
consultant. If the medical advice on the date that the final balance is due is not that 
the policyholder should cancel, then they should pay the final balance safe in the 
knowledge that they have insurance cover. And, if the medical advice changes after 
that date, the policy should respond positively. The same information goes on to say 
that it isnt an immediate requirement to notify of the change in health.
Based on the evidence I have been provided with there was no suggestion that Ms E 
shouldnt travel at the point the balance was paid in full. The fact that the balances 
were paid just after the medical appointments further suggests Ms E sought guidance 
from the consultant before finalising her travel plans. So, applying the information outlined above, had she contacted Great Lakes to let them know about the change in 
health it seems likely to me shed had have paid the final balance as she was 
expecting to travel.
In any event, I think there are other reasons to uphold this complaint, based on the 
evidence thats been made available so far. Our investigator has repeatedly asked 
for evidence and underwriting information to show that Great Lakes wouldnt have 
offered Ms E a policy due to her change in health. Great Lakes hasnt provided that 
information. However, they did provide some commentary which says:
We have the functionality to medical screen pre-existing medical condition(s), 
but only when travelling outside of the UK. We therefore would not have 
accepted them for cover, even if they had tried to declare their pre-existing 
medical conditions.
This suggests to me its most likely that Ms Es new condition couldnt be screened 
due to screening functionality. Thats consistent with what Great Lakes has said 
about not being able to offer cover for Ms E if shed told them about her new 
condition.
It seems most likely Ms E would not have been able to be covered for any new 
condition she declared. She was travelling within the UK and so would have been 
able to access medical treatment via the NHS. In my view, the main benefit of the 
policies for Mr E and Ms E would have been to offer cover for cancellation of their 
trip, which was limited to the accommodation they were booking.
Ms E wouldnt have known that she couldnt get cover for any new condition she 
declared if she was travelling within the UK, as opposed to abroad. Mr E and Ms E 
were going on a UK holiday, covered by two single trip policies purchased alongside 
booking the two cottages. I dont think this limitation of the policy was clear or 
transparent in the policy terms and I think it was a significant limitation in cover.
In reaching this conclusion I bear in mind that these policies were sold alongside the 
bookings for each of the cottages, which were both in the UK. As the policy terms 
prompted Ms E to contact Great Lakes about new conditions, even if she was 
planning to travel in the UK, I think she would reasonably have expected to be able to 
obtain cover for at least some new conditions as thats the impression the policy 
terms give. Given the circumstances it seems unlikely Mr E and Ms E would have 
taken out this particular policy if this had been made clear within the policy terms as it 
would have been of limited benefit to them given the circumstances of their bookings.
Mr E didnt receive the updates he was due to receive from Great Lakes. Its also 
accepted by Great Lakes in their final response letter that the incorrect reasoning for 
declining the claim was given initially. Mr E also had to resend information about the 
diagnosis. So, I think this caused them worry and frustration at an already worrying 
time. I think Great Lakes should therefore pay £100 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Putting things right
Im intending to direct Great Lakes needs to put things right by paying:
The cancellation costs in full, subject to the relevant remaining terms and 
policy limits£100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by poor customer service. 
Mr E and Ms E acknowledged theyd received my provisional decision and didnt add any 
further comments. Great Lakes accepted my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes, Mr E and Ms E didnt make any further comments or provide any further 
evidence. So, theres no reason for me to reach a different decision to my provisional 
decision. 
Im upholding this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above and in my provisional 
decision. 
Putting things right
Great Lakes needs to put things right by paying:
The cancellation costs in full, subject to the relevant remaining terms and 
policy limits
£100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by poor customer service. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr E and Ms Es complaint about Great Lakes Insurance SE and direct it to 
put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Ms E to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman