DRN-2768724
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complained about how AXA Assistance (UK) Limited (AXA) dealt with a 
claim under their home emergency policy.
All references to AXA include contractors working on its behalf. 
 
What happened
Mr H and Mrs H noticed a small water leak coming through a ceiling in their home. They tried 
to call out an engineer under their home emergency policy. However, there was an issue 
with the policy setup. An engineer was sent a few days later, when this had been resolved.
The engineer said the boiler needed a new fan and connection tube, which needed to be 
ordered. AXA also said that Mr H and Mrs H could order heaters up to the value of £50, as 
they had no heating.
A few days later, an engineer visited and replaced the flow pipe, but didnt replace the fan as 
this was found to be working. However, Mr H and Mrs H contacted AXA again the same day 
to report that the pressure was still dropping on the boiler and there was a wet patch on the 
ceiling. So, another appointment was made to try and resolve the problems. 
The engineer visited again a few days later and replaced the filling loop. The engineer then 
tried to locate the source of the leak that was causing water to run down a wall. The 
engineer cut an inspection hatch and found the termination for the pressure relief valve 
(PRV) pipework in the ceiling void. The engineer categorised the boiler as at risk, which 
meant the boiler needed to be turned off and the pipe would have to be re-routed outside the 
house to operate safely.
A few days later, an engineer visited to assess what would need to be done to re-route the 
pipework. A few days after that, AXA sent another contractor to again assess what needed 
to be done. This engineer assessed the situation and couldnt find a leak. They said the PRV 
pipework should have been extended through the roof space and across the extension to the 
house. The engineer didnt think this was covered by the emergency policy as this was an 
installation issue.
Mr H continued to follow up with AXA and was then told that he should arrange his own 
contractor to get his boiler working and that he could claim back the costs up to the £500 
policy limit.
Mr H and Mrs H arranged for a contractor to visit to re-route the pipework. However, after the 
visit, the boiler continued to lose pressure, which was affecting the heating and hot water. 
The contractor returned and identified that excessive force had been used when AXAs 
engineers carried out the work, which had split the heat exchanger.
Mr H and Mrs H complained to AXA. When AXA replied it accepted that there had been 
issues with progressing the claim. However, AXA said it didnt have sufficient evidence to 
show that its engineers had acted incorrectly. The overflow pipe from the boiler also didnt 
extend to outside the house. This indicated faulty installation, which AXA wasnt responsible 
for. AXA offered £500 compensation as an apology for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. It also raised an additional £500 towards the cost of repairing the boiler, as this had 
previously been agreed.
Mr H and Mrs H complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said 
that Mr H had reported the leak, but the engineers didnt seem to be aware of this issue. She 
also said the evidence suggested that it was more likely than not that an AXA engineer had 
damaged the heat exchanger. She said AXA should pay for the heat exchanger repairs and 
the pressure loss diagnosis. AXA should also pay the £500 compensation it had already 
offered and pay for any increased electricity costs.
As neither party agreed, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 3 March 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold this complaint in part. I said:
When Mr H first contacted AXA, this was to deal with a leak. There were issues with the 
policy setup, so it took several days for AXA to send an engineer. It took repeated visits for 
the engineer to find the source of the leak. Mr H and Mrs H have said the engineer told them 
during one of the visits that he hadnt been told about a leak and that he had been told to 
look at the boiler. Looking at the job sheets, these described the job as:
leak in downstairs rooms heating and hot water gone for about a week now. wet patch on 
celling running down one of the walls. (As original.)
The engineers comments on the job sheet from the first visit said that he found a leaking 
hose in the boiler. So, I think the engineer did look for a leak and found one. At the second 
visit, the engineer replaced the flow pipe and signed off everything as ok. However, Mr H 
and Mrs H had to contact AXA again as the boiler still wasnt working properly. It was at the 
next visit that the engineer cut an inspection hatch and found the termination for the 
pressure relief valve (PRV) pipework in the ceiling void. This seemed to be the source of the 
leak that had originally been reported. 
Mr H and Mrs H have said that this leak should have been found sooner and if it had been 
found at an earlier visit, the damage to their home wouldnt have been so significant. So, Ive 
thought about this. The PRV shouldnt have terminated in the ceiling void. By doing this, it 
meant that any water that escaped from it did so within the confines of the house, rather than 
outside as it should have done. AXA has said this was an installation issue and I agree with 
that. I think the engineer did look for and find a leak and I dont think the engineer would 
have expected the PRV pipework to terminate where it did. 
But, I think this also needs to be looked at in the context of what seems to have happened 
next, which was that during the engineers third visit, Mr H and Mrs H said that there was a 
large release of water and this caused significantly more damage. This detail isnt included in 
the engineers report and it hasnt been possible to confirm the full details of what happened 
with the engineer, but I will assume that was what happened. The engineer cut an inspection 
hole and found the PRV pipework termination in the ceiling void.
Ive thought about this carefully. There was an issue with the boiler pressure, so I think its 
reasonable to expect that the engineer might have used the PRV during his visit. Even if he 
could have potentially got to this point on one of earlier visits, I think he was still likely to 
have used the PRV when he was trying to fix the issue with the boiler. But, I dont think the 
engineer would have expected the PRV to terminate in a ceiling void. If it had been correctly 
installed, it should have terminated outside the house. Im also aware that Mrs H told AXA that they hadnt had the boiler serviced in the six years or so that they had lived in the house. 
So they didnt know there was an issue with the PRV, which might have been picked up 
during a service had these taken place.
So, in my view, the reason the engineers actions resulted in more damage was due to the 
incorrect installation and that no-one knew that this was the case - not because of 
carelessness on his part. I dont think the engineer could reasonably have been expected to 
foresee that by using the PRV that this was likely to result in a release of water that caused 
damage inside the house. So, although I know this will disappoint Mr H and Mrs H, I dont 
think that AXA was responsible for paying to repair the damage. As a result, I dont currently 
intend to uphold this part of the complaint.
Ive also thought about whether AXA should pay Mr H and Mrs Hs costs for their own 
plumber re-routing the PRV pipe. In my view it should. This is because, regardless of 
whether the policy would normally cover that work, Ive listened to a phone call where AXA 
spoke to Mr H and told him to arrange for someone to assess and carry out the work to get 
his boiler working again. This was agreed outside of the normal claims process and the only 
caveat was that the work was subject to the £500 limit in the policy. The boiler had been 
switched off because of the location of the PRV pipework termination. So the way to get the 
boiler working again was to get the pipework re-routed. Mr H has provided copied of invoices 
for the work. This showed the repair cost, which is within the £500 limit. So, I currently intend 
to say that AXA should pay this.
Ive also thought about the issue with the split heat exchanger. Mr H and Mrs H provided a 
quote from a contractor that said AXA had damaged the heat exchanger due to excessive 
force being used during the repair. I find this evidence to be a credible explanation of what 
happened. I asked AXA a number of questions related to this case, but it was unable to 
respond to them as it couldnt get a reply from the engineer. Im aware that AXA previously 
explained that the engineer said the damage was due to wear and tear. But looking at all of 
the evidence available to me, Im more persuaded that the likely cause of the damage was 
due to the actions of the engineer while a pipe was being replaced on the boiler. So, I 
currently think AXA should also pay the cost of the call out fee, which was £108 and for the 
part being replaced, which was £913.20. This is outside of the £500 policy limit because Im 
currently of the view that the damage was caused by the engineer, so the policy limit isnt 
relevant.
Mr H and Mrs H are also concerned about the additional costs for using heaters in their 
home while AXA was trying to resolve the issues. I think this claim took longer to deal with 
than it should have and AXA seemed to accept this when it was dealing with Mr H and Mrs 
Hs complaint. So, I currently think that AXA should cover any additional costs for using the 
heaters, subject to Mr H and Mrs H providing evidence of this. I also intend to say that AXA 
should pay interest on each of these amounts as Mr H and Mrs H lost use of the money from 
the date on which they paid the invoices.
Ive also thought about whether AXA should pay Mr H and Mrs H compensation for what 
happened. I think Mr H and Mrs H were caused distress and inconvenience by what 
happened when they tried to get their claim dealt with and were left without heating and hot 
water. The problems also seem to have continued due to the engineer damaging part of the 
boiler. AXA already offered £500 compensation. I think that was reasonable in the 
circumstances and I currently intend to say that it should pay this amount.
I understand that AXA already sent Mr H and Mrs H a cheque for £500. Mr H and Mrs H 
have said that they didnt bank the cheque. So, subject to any processes that AXA needs to 
carry out to satisfy itself about the status of the first cheque, AXA should ensure that Mr H 
and Mrs H receive the full amount payable in relation to this complaint.I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 2 April 2021.
Mr H and Mrs H said they wanted me to proceed in line with my provisional decision.
AXA confirmed the elements it was required to reimburse and said it had already previously 
paid £1,000 made up of £500 compensation and £500 towards the heat exchanger.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my decision that the complaint is upheld in part, for 
the reasons given in my provisional decision. AXA will need to pay the costs described. It 
may deduct the amounts already paid, as it doesnt need to pay them twice. However, if 
there is evidence that Mr H and Mrs H didnt bank those cheques, AXA should reissue those 
amounts, subject to any checks it needs to carry out.
  
Putting things right
As a result, AXA should pay Mr H and Mrs Hs costs for re-routing the pipework and 
replacing the heat exchanger, as well as any additional electricity costs. AXA should also 
pay £500 compensation.   My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is upheld in part. I require AXA Assistance (UK) Limited to:
Pay Mr H and Mrs Hs costs for their own plumber re-routing the pipework, subject to 
them providing AXA with evidence of these costs.
Pay Mr H and Mrs H the cost of assessing and repairing the heat exchanger, subject to 
them providing AXA with evidence of these costs.
Pay Mr H and Mrs H the additional electricity costs they incurred due to having to use 
electric heaters for a prolonged period, subject to them providing AXA with evidence of 
these costs.
Pay 8% simple interest on each of the above amounts from the date on which Mr H and 
Mrs H paid each of the invoices until the date on which AXA pays the money.
If AXA Assistance (UK) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H and Mrs H how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr H and Mrs H a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay Mr H and Mrs H £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman