DRN-3201631
The complaint
Mr M says UK Credit Limited acted irresponsibly when it accepted him as a guarantor on a
loan taken out by a third party.  
What happened
In July 2018 UK Credit gave a 60-month instalment loan for £6,000 to the borrower. The
monthly repayments were £264.58 and the total repayable was £15,874.30.
Mr M signed a Guarantee and Indemnity agreement in respect of the loan. That meant that
if the borrower failed to make the repayments UK Credit could seek repayment from Mr M.
This decision does not consider whether it was reasonable for UK Credit to give the loan to
the borrower. It assesses whether it was reasonable for UK Credit to accept Mr M as a
guarantor for the loan.
Mr M says the borrower pressured him to be the guarantor, and as he was homeless and
staying at the borrowers home at the time he had no choice. He feels UK Credits checks
were flawed, saying it just guessed his income and outgoings. He also says the lender didnt
explain the consequences of being a guarantor. And that he was suffering from depression
at the time.
Our investigator concluded that Mr Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said UK Credit
had carried out proportionate checks and made a fair lending decision based on the
information it gathered. She said the lender had made Mr M aware of the implications of
being the loan guarantor and there was no evidence to show he was pressured to do so.
Mr M disagreed, reiterating that he felt the lenders checks had failed and that he was
pressured  but that wouldnt necessarily come across on a phone call.
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a decision. I 
reached a different conclusion to the investigator, so I issued a provisional decision - an 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I did this to give everyone a chance to 
comment before issuing a final decision. I asked for any comments or new information by 16 
December 2021. UK Credit asked for more time so I extended the deadline to 30 December 
2021. 
Extract from my provisional decision - I considered certain questions to reach my decision.
1. Did UK Credit obtain Mr Ms properly informed consent to become guarantor for the 
loan?
Ive listened to two call recordings of conversations between UK Credit and Mr M that were
part of the loan application process. On the first call Mr M confirmed that he had received the
terms of the loan and was happy with them, and that the loan repayments would be
affordable for him. As part of this call he listened to a pre-recorded script that set out the role
and responsibilities of being a guarantor. It made clear that he was equally responsible for
the debt. He confirmed to the adviser he understood this and had no questions.
Ive also seen the Guarantee and Indemnity agreement signed by Mr M. This set out his
rights and obligations. So overall I think Mr M consented to becoming the loan guarantor and
was told about the consequences of being a guarantor.
I have thought carefully about what Mr M has said about being pressured by the borrower to
act as guarantor. And that he had no choice as he was staying with the borrower. I accept
this is possible, but I have to reach my decision based on the available evidence - and from
this what it is reasonable to conclude the lender ought to have known at the time.
Having listened to the calls between Mr M and UK Credit, I cannot fairly say that the lender
should have concluded Mr M wasnt a willing guarantor. There were two inconsistencies on
the calls. Mr M first gave a different address and whilst he said he lived with his mother on
the first call, he said he lived with his sister on the second call.
I dont think the error in the first line of the address Mr M initially gave should have prompted
further investigation. I say this as he went on to provide proof of his address and the credit
check UK Credit completed using his name and that address was successful. He has
provided no documentation that shows he was living at the same address as the borrower.
I do think the lender should have noticed the inconsistency in what Mr M said about who he
lived with and asked about this. But as this could have been for a number of reasons, and
both answers may have been accurate, I cant fairly say that would have led to UK Credit
uncovering information that may have shown Mr M was under pressure to act as guarantor.
I am sorry to hear about Mr Ms health issues. Mr M says he suffers from depression and
was taken advantage of at the time of the loan due to his living arrangements. But, as Ive
said, he evidenced that he lived at a different address to the borrower so I cant see the
lender can fairly be expected to think otherwise  and subsequently have reason to be
concerned about that.
On balance, I cant see that UK Credit was aware at the time that Mr M might be a
vulnerable consumer or that he was being forced to be a guarantor.
2. Did UK Credit carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
M was in a position to sustainably repay the loan, in the event that the borrower did 
not? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the 
time? And did it make a fair lending decision?
UK Credit asked for some information from Mr M before accepting him as guarantor. It asked
for his monthly income and expenditure. It verified his declared income by asking for a copy
of a recent payslip. It carried out a credit check to understand his existing credit
commitments and credit history. From these checks combined UK Credit calculated Mr Ms
monthly disposable income to be £462. So it concluded he would still have sufficient
disposable income after making the loan repayments if he was required to do so.
Unlike the investigator, I am not persuaded that the checks UK Credit did were
proportionate. Given the term of the loan and the repayments as a portion of Mr Ms income,
I think it needed to complete a fuller financial review and understand Mr Ms actual monthly
expenditure to know he would be able to sustainably repay the loan, if needed.
However I wont comment on this further as even based on the checks it carried out I dont
think UK Credit made a fair lending decision.
From the credit check UK Credit knew Mr M had seven active accounts (three loans and four 
credit cards) and his existing monthly credit commitments were approximately £388 (the total
of his loan repayments, plus an assumed monthly minimum repayment of 3% of balance onhis credit card debt). He was only one year in to repaying a seven-year loan that had
monthly repayments of £234.
By accepting Mr M as the guarantor on this loan the lender was increasing the amount of
monthly income he could need to commit to repaying his debts to just over 50%. It already
knew from the screenshot of his salary crediting his current account that he was overdrawn
prior to payday suggesting his finances might already be under pressure.
So I think UK Credit ought to have realised there was a risk this loan would not be
sustainably affordable for him. And to meet its obligations as a responsible lender it needed
to check this, not just the pounds and pence affordability. CONC 5.3.1(G) stated:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC
5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability
to repay the credit. [Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1)
should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to
meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner
without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse
consequences. [Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
It follows I think UK Credit was wrong to accept Mr M as the guarantor of this loan.
  
I then set out what UK Credit would need to do to put things right if I upheld Mr Ms 
complaint in part. 
Mr M responded before the deadline. Despite the extension I granted to UK Credit it did not 
respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending, as well as the key
rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice, is set out on our
website. And I used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint. 
As neither party provided any new comments or evidence it follows I have no reason to 
change the findings or conclusion I set out in my provisional decision.
In summary, I dont find that UK Credit was aware at the time that Mr M might be a 
vulnerable consumer or that he was being forced to be a guarantor. But for the reasons set 
out above I think UK Credit was wrong to accept Mr M as the guarantor of this loan based on 
the checks it carried out.
In response to my provisional decision Mr M asked some practical questions about what 
would happen next. I can see the investigator responded confirming the lender would 
contact Mr M to confirm if there is any refund due once the final decision was issued. He will 
be able to check his own credit file to make sure the information about the loan is removed 
but I would allow at least 60 days before doing so. I cannot comment on his queries relating 
to the borrower as the scope of this decision was to assess whether it was reasonable for 
UK Credit to accept Mr M as a guarantor for the loan.
 
Putting things rightUK Credit  in so far as is reasonably practicable  must put Mr M back in the position he 
would be in now if its wrong hadnt taken place. This means UK Credit putting Mr M in the 
position hed now be in if he hadnt unfairly and unreasonably been accepted as a guarantor 
on this loan.
UK Credit should:
a) Release Mr M from any obligations under the guarantee and indemnity agreement and
then terminate it.
b) Refund any payments made by Mr M as guarantor, if he has many any. UK Credit
must add 8%* simple interest a year to each of those sums, from the date Mr M paid them to
the date the refund is paid to him.
c) Remove any information about this loan from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from this interest. UK Credit should give
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.  
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ms complaint in part and UK Credit Limited must put things right as set 
out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman