DRN-3081723
The complaint
Miss J says Shop Direct Finance Company Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss J opened an account with Shop Direct in February 2011. Her credit limit at this time 
was £500. In May 2011, her limit was increased to £700. It was increased a further four 
times: August 2011 to £950; November 2011 to £1,350; December 2011 to £1,600 and in 
January 2012 to £1,900. The account was closed as fully settled in 2013.
Miss J complained to Shop Direct in 2021 that she shouldnt have been allowed to open the 
account. And the limit increases were also irresponsibly lent to her. Shop Direct didnt uphold 
her complaint, so she came to our service.
Our investigator also didnt uphold Miss Js complaint. She said she thought the checks 
carried out at application and on increases were proportionate. And she said we held no 
evidence Miss J was struggling with payments or in arrears on other debt.
Miss J disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She reiterated that she was 
behind on her accounts, only making minimum payments and had a poor credit history, but 
she didnt supply any evidence of this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Shop Direct has shown us the checks it carried out on Miss J when she applied for 
the account. These show its checked her credit file and other borrowing, and these 
were acceptable for it to grant this account and its £500 limit. The checks do show 
that Miss J has had some issues with credit in the past, but I dont consider these are 
enough to say Shop Direct shouldnt have granted this account. Her more recent 
credit is all showing as up to date and this was a low limit account.
Shop Direct has shown it checked the status of Miss Js other lending when it 
granted the credit increases and these reported as up to date. Miss J has said this 
wasnt the case, but despite our investigator inviting Miss J to send evidence of this, 
we havent received anything. So I cant say that Shop Directs records are incorrect 
 and so it seems the increases were responsible based on the data it held at the 
time.
While Shop Direct did increase Miss Js limit to £950, and then three times after this, 
she never had an outstanding balance of over £784. So I also cant say the later 
increases actually impacted her, as she didnt utilise this additional credit. 
Miss J has said shes had another account upheld on similar grounds. But Im only 
looking into this account and the lending on it. And Im satisfied that proportionate 
checks were carried out and that Miss J wasnt irresponsibly lent to.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman