DRN-3068901
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited hasnt repaired 
Mr Js laptop properly after he made a claim for accidental damage to it under their home 
insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr J knocked a glass of lemonade over and lemonade split on his laptop. Hes explained 
that there was a bang and smoke and his laptop went off. He contacted Lloyds and it 
arranged for the laptop to go to its repair agent. The repair agent sent the laptop back having 
replaced the motherboard and USB daughterboard. But they couldnt complete a full test on 
the laptop, as they didnt have a Hard Disk Drive (HDD) password. Although, weve since 
established that Mr J had replaced the HDD with a Solid State Drive (SSD). 
When Mr J got the laptop back from Lloyds agent he contacted it to complain, as he couldnt 
use it without the HDD password. He also said the fan was noisy and that the repair agent 
had used second-hand parts that werent compatible with the original motherboard and 
components. He also said the new motherboard that had been fitted had caused a problem 
with the power supply lead and it now needed a different one. Lloyds said its agent had 
repaired the damage to the laptop caused by the lemonade and that any other problems 
werent as a result of the incident Mr J had claimed for. Its agent said specifically that the 
password must have been there before they tested it and was most likely set up when the 
laptop was purchased. They also said the parts theyd used were the same parts as before 
or the manufacturers listed alternatives. So Lloyds rejected Mr Js complaint. 
Mr and Mrs J asked us to consider their complaint against Lloyds. It was considered by one 
of our investigators, who said that he thought that it was more likely than not that the 
lemonade had caused a problem with the laptop and that for some reason an HDD 
password was now required, when it wasnt prior to it being damaged. And he suggested 
that, in light of this, Lloyds should pay Mr M the cost of a replacement, plus interest at 8% 
per annum simple. This was on the basis Lloyds hadnt arranged an effective and lasting 
repair of Mr Js laptop. 
Lloyds didnt agree with the investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. It said there wasnt enough evidence to say the password issue was as a result of 
the repair or the incident Mr J had claimed for. It also pointed out theres no evidence to say 
the laptop isnt working. It was just it couldnt be tested without the HDD password. It 
suggested Mr J should contact the manufacturer for help with the password; and if he was 
successful, it could then ask its agent to complete the testing of the repair. It said that - as an 
alternative - its agent could install a new HDD to test the repair, although this would result in 
Mr J losing the software and data on the HDD. 
Our investigator asked Mr J to contact the manufacturer about the password. Mr J said he 
didnt think the manufacturer of the laptop would be able to help, as the primary drive was 
the SSD hed fitted after he purchased the laptop. He checked online and decided to contact 
the manufacturer of the SSD for advice via a webchat. It advised him the only option to try 
and resolve the issue would be a low-level format or secure erase of the SSD, which would 
erase all the data. Mr J asked if that did not work and the SSD was faulty, whether that 
would have been caused by the spillage. The manufacturer said that since the SSD was 
working fine before the spillage and not working afterwards, any problem with it was likely 
caused by the spillage. Mr J decided he could cope without the data, so he tried to reformat 
the SSD. And he provided a copy of the webchat transcript and told us he was unable to 
reformat the SSD.
The investigator sent Lloyds a copy of the webchat over a week ago and told it Mr J had not 
been able to reformat the SSD. He asked Lloyds to comment and let him know whether it 
still wanted an ombudsmans decision. And hes also chased it. But Lloyds still hasnt 
responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs J have cover under their policy for accidental damage to the contents of their 
home. Mr Js laptop is part of the contents, as it can be classed as a household good. And 
Im satisfied any damage to Mr Js laptop whilst it was in his home caused by a spillage of 
lemonade would be classed as accidental damage based on the policy definition of 
accidental damage. And Lloyds doesnt appear to dispute this. And I cant see theres 
anything else in the policy which excludes this type of damage. And under the contents 
section it says Lloyds will settle claims as follows:
"How we settle claims under your Contents covers: 
We can either repair or replace any item or make a money payment instead.
We will pay the cost of replacement as new if available or otherwise the nearest 
equivalent less any discounts obtainable.
If an item is irreplaceable, we will base our payment on expert opinion of its value 
immediately prior to its loss or damage."
The policy also says that Lloyds will pay to replace any non-recoverable electronic data 
legally downloaded. But Lloyds has said that recovery of software would be an uninsured 
loss. 
I think this all means that Lloyds was entitled to attempt to repair Mr Js laptop. But if it 
couldnt arrange a lasting and effective repair, then, under the terms of the policy, it should 
replace it. I can appreciate Lloyds point that it did arrange a repair, but couldnt check 
whether it had been successful due to an issue which it didnt think was related to the 
spillage of lemonade onto the laptop. However - in summary - all Lloyds said to Mr and Mrs J 
in its final response letter in March 2021 was that it was satisfied that its agent hadnt done 
anything wrong and if he had any further questions he should speak to the agent. It was only 
when our investigator suggested it should pay the cost of replacing Mr Js laptop that Lloyds 
suggested he should contact the manufacturer about the issue with the HDD password. 
In view of this, I dont think Lloyds handled Mr Ls claim very well, as Lloyds or its agent 
clearly should have told him he needed to contact the manufacturer to resolve the issue with 
the password when the laptop was returned to him. 
Mr J found out he needed to try and reformat the SSD from its manufacturer very recently. 
He tried to do this, but was unable to do so. He felt there was no point in contacting the 
manufacturer of the laptop, as the issue it had wasnt to do with the original HDD. And Im 
satisfied this wouldnt have proved worthwhile. As Ive already said, our investigator sent Lloyds a copy of the webchat Mr J had with the manufacturer of the SSD, along with his 
email saying he was not able to reformat the hard drive and that this was likely to be due to a 
fault caused by the spillage. This was quite recently and to date Lloyds hasnt responded. 
But I think if Lloyds had handled the claim better in the first place it would have established 
that there was nothing that could be done to get the laptop to work much earlier on. And that 
this was likely to be due to a fault caused by the spillage. I say this because it could have 
said Mr J needed to contact the manufacturer in its final response letter, rather than simply 
telling him to contact the repairer. And I think if it had done so Mr J would have realised he 
needed to contact the manufacturer of the SSD and done this and established he couldnt 
get the laptop to work. And he could then have let Lloyds know this.
I have to consider what the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr and Mrs Js complaint is  
based on all the evidence available to me. And I accept Mr Js testimony that his laptop 
worked without an HDD password prior to the spillage, as it was him that fitted the SSD and 
he did not set it to require one. And, as Ive already mentioned, Ive seen Mr Js webchat 
with the manufacturer of the SSD, in which it states a secure reset or reformat of the SSD is 
needed. And, it goes on to say if this doesnt work, its likely to be due to a fault caused by 
the spillage. And Im satisfied Mr J has tried the correct procedure to reformat the SSD and 
that this didnt work. In view of all this, I think it is most likely the problem with the laptop not 
working without an HDD password is as result of the spillage. This means Mr J cant use the 
laptop. So, I dont think Lloyds has fulfilled its obligations under the terms of the policy to 
repair the laptop or replace it if a repair isnt possible. 
Putting things right
This all means that I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for Lloyds to 
either provide a new replacement laptop of the same make, model and specification as the 
one that was damaged or as close to this as possible, allowing for the fact that the laptop is 
several years old. Or it can provide Mr J with what it would cost him to buy this in the normal 
retail market. This is because this represents what Mr J will need to actually pay to get a 
suitable replacement. Mr J has already paid his excess, so this will not need to be deducted 
if Lloyds does pay cash, as opposed to providing a replacement. 
I appreciate Mr J has been without his laptop for some time. But it was only recently that we 
established the problem with a password being required for the HDD was due to the spillage. 
but I think overall a new replacement or the cost of buying one is sufficient. Also, its possible 
replacing the hard drive as opposed to the whole laptop could have worked. And while I think 
its too late to do this now, I have to bear in mind Mr J is now going to get a brand new up to 
date laptop.   
There seems to now be no way of recovering any data from the damaged laptop and the 
loss of the software is an insured loss. So there is nothing for Lloyds to pay in these regards. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. And I 
require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to either provide Mr J with a new 
replacement laptop of the same make, model and specification as the one that was 
damaged or as close to this as possible allowing for the fact that the laptop is several years 
old. Or it can provide Mr J with what it would cost him to buy a suitable new replacement in 
the normal retail market.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman