The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Mr W.
AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it 
as the seller.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2002 alongside a store loan account. Mr W 
was sold the policy at the same time that he applied for the account in the shop. 
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. AXA disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me.  When I looked at the case I 
reached a different conclusion to that of the adjudicator. So I wrote a provisional decision 
and asked for comments and any further evidence. In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Currently I dont intend to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The adjudicator said that AXA hadnt done enough to make sure Mr W understood he 
might not be fully covered by the policy  Mr W suffered from a long-term illness for 
which he took medication, and the policy didnt cover claims for already-existing 
medical conditions.
However, my view of this is different. Mr W has told us that he had been diagnosed as 
a young child, and took medication to control the symptoms; he describes the 
condition as mild and says he didnt see a doctor about it regularly, and hadnt taken 
time off from work because of it.
So I dont think it likely hed have expected to need to claim on the PPI because of this 
condition  and so I dont think better information would have affected whether he took 
the PPI.
DRN-1894352Ive looked at other reasons why the PPI might have been mis-sold, but my view 
currently is that these dont apply. I will explain why.
The form does set out the PPI as a choice, which you make by signing in a separate 
PPI section. So I think Mr W would have understood he had a choice; even if now, so 
many years later, he doesnt remember this.
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for 
Mr Ws individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his 
circumstances. It would have been for Mr W to decide whether it was suitable.
However, AXA did need to give Mr W clear and fair information, so he could make an 
informed choice. It probably didnt explain everything as well as it should have. But I 
think it did set out the monthly cost of the PPI clearly enough on the loan form. And I 
dont think the other terms of the policy would have affected Mr W such that hed have 
not taken the PPI, if hed known all the details.
I say this because its fairly likely that the PPI could have paid out for longer than his 
full employer sick pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer sick 
pay or redundancy pay. Also it looks as though he didnt have large savings, and in 
any case the PPI would mean he could have kept those in reserve for longer. So, 
overall, the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful, and better information 
probably wouldnt have made a difference to whether or not Mr W took the PPI.
AXA didn;t comment, and Mr W's representatives said they had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision I'm not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
I'm not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22July2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman