DRN-3588346
The complaint
Miss K and Ms K are unhappy with how Bank of London and The Middle East plc (BLME) 
communicated with them after the reported fraudulent activity on their account. They want 
fair compensation.
What happened
On 16 June 2021 BLME received instructions from Miss K and Ms K to transfer £119,000 to 
their account at another bank on 15 September 2021. On 23 July 2021 and then on 14 
August 2021 it received updated instructions to transfer the money to different accounts at 
other banks. All instructions were sent from the email registered to the account and BLME 
sent letters each time confirming the new payment instructions. On 13 September 2021 an 
email was received from a different and unregistered email address saying the registered 
email had been hacked. 
The transfer had already been sent on the 13 September to meet the requested date of 15 
September 2021 based on the last set of payment instructions. That same day two emails 
were received from the unregistered email address, one saying the money should be 
transferred to a different account and one saying they had no account at the bank named on 
the 14 August 2021 that the money had since been sent to. The case was therefore referred 
to the banks financial crime unit as potential fraud. The next day BLME tried to recall the 
funds via its clearing bank but it had to contact the recipient bank so there was a delay. 
BLME returned the money to Miss K and Ms K on 1 November 2021, despite the fraud 
investigation being ongoing and it not receiving the money back until 11 January 2022. It 
accepts however that it could have communicated better during the investigation. It offered 
to pay £138 compensation to reflect the lost interest between 15 September and 1 
November 2021.
Ms K has explained her email was hacked and thats why BLME received updated account 
details that werent from her. She tried to contact the bank but to no avail. She says the 
delay in getting their funds back caused significant stress and inconvenience. She needed 
money for her husbands funeral expenses; was forced to close an ISA to access money; 
and had to borrow the £119,000 she needed for the property purchase.
Our investigator upheld Miss K and Ms Ks complaint in part. She said BLME ought to have 
given clearer information on what steps they were taking to recover the monies and why. 
She accepted it must have been very stressful given the sum of money involved and Ms Ks 
sad personal circumstances at the time. But she found the bank had acted in line with its 
policies sending letters out to confirm each set of payment instructions. She acknowledged 
Miss K and Ms K might not have received the letters, but she was satisfied they were sent. 
She saw that Ms K had tried to contact BLME by email four times in October 2022 but had 
no reply. She said as Ms K did not want to provide evidence of any financial losses caused 
by not having access to the money for 47 days she could make no finding on that point. In 
summary, she said BLME must pay Ms K and Miss K a further £100 compensation for the 
poor service and communication during the investigation.
BLME accepted the assessment and agreed to pay the additional £100. Miss K and Ms K 
did not and said they wanted compensation of £1,000 to recognise the stress caused; the 
bank being unhelpful; and the work they had to do to move money from other accounts to 
complete their house purchase. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding the complaint in part.
I have found no fault in the way BLME accepted and confirmed the payment instructions 
from Miss K and Ms K. These were each time sent from the email address registered to the 
account via the secure savings and confirmed back to Miss K and Ms K by a letter. They say 
they did not receive the letter confirming the fraudulent details, but I cant fairly hold BLME 
liable for the non-receipt. I think once BLME became aware the registered email had most 
likely been hacked, and that the most recent payment instructions were to an unknown 
account, it acted promptly that same day and launched a fraud investigation. It is not 
unreasonable it had already sent the money two days prior in order for it to arrive on the 
required date. 
I agree with all parties conclusion that from that point on however BLMEs communication 
was not consistently robust. I have seen the emails Ms K sent to the savings email address 
in October that she did not receive a response to. And I understand the stress this must 
caused, in addition to the work they needed to do to ensure they had funds where needed 
for the property purchase to complete successfully.  
BLME has made good the interest Miss K and Ms K lost whilst the money was missing and 
paid them £138 for this. That is fair. We asked for evidence of any other financial losses so 
we could consider the best way for these to be put right. But Ms K did not want to provide 
any such information so I cant consider the possible losses she has referenced such as 
needing to move money to complete on the house and needing to close an ISA early. 
So what remains for me to decide is what is a fair level of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Miss K and Ms K suffered. I think £250 is more appropriate than £100 given 
the sum of money involved, the fact they had to be able to complete on a house purchase on 
a set date and Ms Ks personal circumstances at the time. BLME is aware I have increased 
the award and agreed to pay this.
Putting things right
BLME must pay Miss K and Mr K £250 compensation, in addition to the £138 (if that has not 
yet been paid).
My final decision
I am upholding Miss K and Ms Ks complaint in part. Bank of London and The Middle East 
plc must put things right as set out above..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K and Ms K 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Rebecca ConnelleyOmbudsman