DRN-2984924
The complaint
Miss B says Retail Money Market Ltd (trading as RateSetter) facilitated a loan for her that 
she couldnt afford.
 
What happened
Miss B took out a loan for £2,000 through RateSetters electronic system in January 2017. 
The loan total of £2,364.24, including interest and a loan fee of £294.40, was to be repaid in 
12 monthly instalments of £197.11. 
Miss B says RateSetter didnt carry out sufficient checks and the loan got her into more debt. 
She says she had health issues that impacted her ability to manage her finances and the 
lender never asked her to provide any information on her mental health. Also, her partner  
she was trapped in a financially abusive relationship  used her bank account to fund his 
gambling addiction.
  
Our investigator recommended Miss Bs complaint should be upheld. In summary, he said 
RateSetter didnt carry out proportionate checks. And better checks would have shown that 
Miss B was having problems managing her money and so there was a risk further borrowing 
would be unsustainable for her.
RateSetter disagreed, saying Miss Bs declared income was successfully validated using a 
third-party tool so it did not need to ask for bank statements. And it can see from a 
subsequently declined application that Miss B settled her mail order account and a payday 
loan as she planned to.
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry
practice at the time.
RateSetter operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Miss B being 
provided with a loan, so it needed to check that Miss B could afford to meet
her repayments sustainably before bringing about this agreement for her. In other words,
it needed to check she could repay the credit out of her usual means without having to
borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other harmful consequences.
The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit and Miss Bs 
circumstances, and RateSetter needed to respond appropriately to the information
it gathered. The overarching requirement for RateSetter is that it needed to pay due
regard to Miss Bs interests and treat her fairly.
With this in mind, the questions I first need to consider are did RateSetter complete 
reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Miss Bs application to satisfy itself 
that she would be able to make her repayments in a sustainable way? If not, what would 
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
RateSetter asked Miss B for information about her income. It says it verified this using a third 
party. It made an assumption about the percentage of her income she was spending on 
living expenses. It checked her credit file to understand her credit commitments and credit 
history, and says it found nothing of concern. It asked about the purpose of the loan which 
was to consolidate three debts. From these checks RateSetter concluded Miss B had 
sufficient disposable income for the loan to be sustainably affordable.
Miss B raised that RateSetter never asked for information about her mental health. But this 
is not something lenders are obliged to do when making lending decisions, and indeed it 
wouldnt generally be appropriate. We would of course expect RateSetter to have responded 
appropriately, and make any reasonable adjustments required, had Miss B chosen to 
disclose her health issues. But I have seen no evidence that Miss B made RateSetter aware.
I accept that RateSetters checks would be proportionate in many circumstances. But in this 
case, I dont think they were. I say this for a number of reasons. The income verification 
check gave a high confidence level that Miss Bs declared income was accurate, but it also 
showed that her income had changed by 103% in the previous three months. I think this 
merited further investigation. It knew from the credit search that Miss B had 17 searches 
recorded against her in the previous two months. And it also knew Miss B had an active 
payday loan.
I am not saying any of these issues were a reason not to lend  and I note the purpose of 
the loan was debt consolidation. But I think, in the round, these findings ought to have 
triggered RateSetter to do further checks to get the assurances it needed that Miss Bs 
finances werent under undue pressure. Particularly as it had not checked her outgoings at 
all.
Miss B has provided her bank statements for the two months prior to her application. To be 
clear, I am not suggesting that RateSetter ought to have looked at these, but it is a way for 
me to understand what Miss Bs income and expenditure was generally around that time. 
They show that had RateSetter carried out proportionate checks at the time it would most 
likely have seen Miss B was having problems managing her money and did not have the 
level of disposable income it had assumed in its affordability assessment.  
There were frequent gambling transactions totalling on average around 45% of her declared 
income each month. This supports Miss Bs testimony that her partner was using her 
account to fund his gambling addiction.  For clarity, my finding that follows would be the 
same irrespective of whether it was Miss B, or her partner, spending from her account in this 
way. Had RateSetter been aware of this expenditure, I think it would have realised it was 
unlikely Miss B would be able to sustainably repay this loan (so without borrowing to repay 
or suffering some other harmful financial consequence). So I dont think it would have 
progressed Miss Bs application in these circumstances.
It follows I think RateSetter was wrong to lend to Miss B.
I have then considered whether RateSetter acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss B in 
some other way. I dont think it did and Ill explain why.Miss B has told us she was struggling with her mental health at the time and was in a 
financially abusive relationship. I am very sorry to hear she was dealing with such 
challenging circumstances. But I cant see from her contact with RateSetter that it was, or 
ought to have been, aware of this. Miss B repaid the loan early in March 2017 and doesnt 
appear to have raised her financial difficulties (which might have led to a wider discussion 
about her personal circumstances) with the business at any stage. So I cant fairly find any 
failings on the part of the business to respond appropriately to what she has now told us.    
Putting things right
Ive found that RateSetter was irresponsible to have brought about this loan for Miss B and 
so I dont think she should have paid any interest or charges associated with it. I do think she 
should repay the capital amount, as shes had the use of these funds.
RateSetter should:
refund all interest and charges (including the loan fee) applied to the loan, and;
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above from the date they were paid to the 
date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Bs credit file as a result of this 
loan.
HM Revenue & Customs requires RateSetter to take off tax from this interest. It must give Miss B a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Bs complaint against Retail Money Market Ltd (trading as RateSetter). 
It must put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman