DRN-4456673
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice CST Wealth Management Limited (CST) gave to him to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes 
this has caused a financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr B to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Bs.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)1, or 
a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Bs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In June 2017, the DB scheme administrators sent Mr B information about his entitlement 
under his current DB scheme including a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) quotation, 
which was around £462,800.
Mr B approached CST for advice about his pension. It conducted a fact-find with him. 
Amongst other things it noted Mr B was 46 years old and single. He was working, earning 
£36,000 a year. He owned his own home subject to an interest only mortgage of £130,000. 
He had £11,000 in savings. He had an outstanding loan of £5,000 and was making hire 
purchase repayments of £90 a month. Mr B and his employer together had started 
contributing a sum equivalent to 16% of his salary into the employers recently set up defined 
contribution (DC) pension scheme.
After obtaining a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report in August 2017 CST sent Mr B a 
Financial Planning Report (suitability report) setting out its analysis and recommendations. 
It recommended Mr B should transfer his DB scheme funds to a named SIPP and use the 
services of a discretionary fund manager to advise on an investment portfolio. In brief it said 
that doing so would allow Mr B to retire at age 55, pay off his interest only mortgage while 
maintaining an income of £2,000 a month. It also said he could benefit from accessing his 
funds flexibly and leave any residual pension to his family on his death. 
1 The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes. It pays compensation to members of 
eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of 
the original schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme.
Mr B accepted CSTs recommendation and signed the forms for the transfer to go ahead. 
Before the transfer had completed the BSPS trustees provided scheme members with an 
important update in August 2017. They said the members employer had made an expected 
payment into the BSPS of £550 million, as part of its agreement with The Pension Regulator 
and that was likely to result in an improvement to transfer values. The confirmation that the 
employer had made the payment referred to was announced on 11 September 2017. Later 
that month the BSPS sent Mr B an updated CETV which had been recalculated at around 
£477,900.
In October 2017 CST obtained an updated TVAS report to reflect the new CETV. The 
transfer was completed later that month.
Mr B complained to CST that its advice wasnt suitable for him. CST provided a 
comprehensive response in January 2022. It didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. In summary it 
said its advice was suitable for him as it allowed him to achieve his objectives.
Mr B brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into it. She didnt think CSTs advice was suitable for Mr B. So she recommended his 
complaint be upheld. She said CST should establish if Mr B had suffered a financial loss and 
if so pay compensation. She added that CST should pay him £300 to address his trouble 
and upset from the impact on his retirement planning.
CST didnt agree with our Investigators complaint analysis. In a detailed response it 
maintained that its advice was suitable for Mr B and allowed him to achieve his objectives.
However, without admitting liability it later accepted the Investigators recommendation. It 
has since, on more than one occasion and most recently in November 2023, performed 
calculations to establish if Mr B had suffered a loss as a result of its advice. Those 
calculations have shown that Mr B did not suffer a loss. And as such no compensation, 
beyond the £300 trouble and upset amount, is due to Mr B.
In the meantime Mr B told us that hed been unwell and didnt believe that the £300 
compensation CST offered resolved the matter. 
The complaint has been referred to me to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand CST is still disputing that it gave Mr B unsuitable advice. But, nonetheless in 
order to conclude the matter its already carried out loss calculations. So I dont see the need 
to address the suitability of its advice to Mr B in detail.
That said, I will comment that I agree with the Investigators view that the advice was 
unsuitable for broadly similar reasons. In particular Ive been mindful that the regulator's (the 
FCA) guidance for advising firms is that they should assume that a transfer from a DB 
scheme is unsuitable. And they should only recommend one where they can clearly show 
that it was in the consumers best interests. I dont think that was the case for Mr B. Thats 
because, amongst other things:
CST identified in its suitability report that the growth rates required to match the 
benefits from the DB scheme (the critical yields) were highly unlikely to be achieved. It said his benefits in retirement could be lower if his investments didn't 
perform as forecast. In other words CST recognised that by transferring Mr B was 
taking the chance that he could make himself worse off in retirement. I don't think 
that clearly shows a transfer was in his best interests.
Mr B was only 46 at the time of the advice. He still had around nine years until his 
preferred retirement age of 55 and 19 years until the DB schemes normal retirement 
age of 65. And, if CST had advised him to defer making a decision about transferring 
until more about the BSPS2 was known, then he could have opted to join that 
scheme. Had he done so then if he later decided the BSPS2 didnt meet his needs in 
retirement he could have chosen to transfer from it at that point. I think this was 
something he could have explored closer to his intended retirement age. It wasnt a 
decision he needed to make straightaway. So he had no need to put his otherwise 
safeguarded benefits at the risk of the financial markets in the meantime. 
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was in Mr Bs best interest to give up his DB 
scheme guarantees.
Putting things right
The aim is to put Mr B back in the financial position he would have been in at retirement had 
he remained in the DB scheme. CST carried out a calculation using a specific BSPS 
calculator provided by the FCA which is what I would expect it to do in the circumstances. 
The calculator was designed to establish how much a consumer needs in their pension 
arrangement to secure equivalent retirement benefits that they would have been entitled to 
under either BSPS2 or the PPF, had they not transferred out. It uses economic and 
demographic assumptions as set out by the FCA in order to do so.
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement 
to match the BSPS benefits they would have received, the shortfall is the amount owed to 
the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough money in the consumers pension 
arrangement, then no redress is due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF and relevant economic and demographic 
assumptions which are updated regularly. This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.
Ive checked the inputs that CST entered which are specific to Mr B. These include his 
personal details, his individual benefits from the BSPS at the date he left the scheme and the 
value of his personal pension. The calculation also assumes that if he had not been advised 
to transfer his benefits from the BSPS, he would have moved to the BSPS2 and that he 
would have taken his DB benefits at age 65. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, the calculation has been carried out appropriately and in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and set out in their handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
The calculation in Mr Bs case shows that there is no shortfall to his pension and that he has 
sufficient funds to be able to replicate his DB benefits in retirement. So, Im satisfied Mr B 
has not suffered a financial loss by transferring his pension.CST has previously agreed to pay Mr B £300 as recommended by our investigator for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him. Mr B has argued that sum is not 
enough. He's told us about some ill-health and believes the pension situation has made 
things worse. 
I was sorry to read about Mr Bs health concerns. I note there's evidence on file that he 
advised CST about his health issue in 2020. At that time he told CST his condition wasnt a 
result of money issues but because of the situation with the pandemic. He also thanked 
CSTs adviser and said you don't know how much you have helped me. That would 
indicate that, rather than making Mr Bs condition worse CST have helped. So, while I don't 
wish to downplay the effects of Mr Bs condition on him, I havent seen persuasive evidence 
it's been primarily caused or made worse by CSTs actions. It follows that I don't think the 
fact that Mr B suffers from a health issue means he should receive higher compensation for 
his distress and inconvenience.
That said I dont doubt Mr B has likely been caused some distress and concern by finding 
out the advice may not have been suitable. And Im conscious this upset wouldnt have 
happened but for CSTs advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator 
recommended is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I think the calculation carried out by CST Wealth Management Limited is appropriate and no 
redress for financial loss is due to Mr B. But, I think CST Wealth Management Limited should 
pay him £300 as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman