DRN-4071639
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T complain about blocked transactions on their cards issued by Creation 
Financial Services Limited (Creation).
What happened
Mr T has a credit card account with Creation. He has a card on the account, as does Mrs T 
(as a secondary cardholder). On 15 November 2022, at 15.13, Mr T tried to make a payment 
of £2,106.99. It was declined for security checks. A One Time Password (OTP) was entered 
by Mr T, but that didnt enable the payment to be made. Mr T tried to make the payment a 
second time, but the same thing happened. Mr T called Creation and the payment was 
authorised at 15.55. On 16 November 2022, Mrs T tried to make a payment of £52.45 and 
this was declined as well. The card was blocked and the block was removed the following 
day.
Mr T and Mrs T complained. Mr T said that while he understood the need for security 
checks, Creations processes were inefficient. He couldnt see why the transactions had 
been declined - as he was well within the credit limit of £13,500. He had complied with what 
Creation asked for  by entering the OTP. The payment was declined twice, and he then had 
to call Creation to clear the payment. Mr T said he had to wait on the phone for over 20 
minutes to do that. He said his card wasnt unblocked until the following day  and only then 
when he called Creation. He said many other payments had been blocked in the past, and 
this couldnt be right.
After that, Mrs T tried to make a payment of £52.45 the next day with her secondary card 
and that was also declined and the card blocked. It was unblocked the following day. He said 
he couldnt understand why such a low value payment wouldnt be made. Payment was then 
made by using another card.
Creation said security was a high priority  to safeguard customers against fraud and misuse 
of their credit cards. For some payments, they needed to speak to a customer to verify the 
payment before its released, even if an OTP has been entered as verification. They said 
they attempt to contact customers within three days when that is needed. Creation said Mr 
Ts card was unblocked within the hour after a review by their security department, and the 
payment was released. 
On Mrs Ts payment, the card was unblocked the following day.
Creation apologised for the long wait times on the phone when Mr T tried to contact them. 
They didnt uphold Mr T and Mrs Ts complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its an unfortunate fact that fraud and related crime is increasing and firms such as Creation 
(and other banks) have security processes in place to check certain payments. This is to 
protect both customers and the firms involved. The choice of which payments to block and 
check is a matter for each firm to decide  it is a complicated algorithm, to which we (and 
any other external party) have no knowledge of. But  the fact that the balance was within 
the credit limit (as it was in this case)  isnt in general terms relevant to whether a payment 
is declined or not.
These checks are sometimes used even when other processes  such as adding an OTP 
(as in this case) have been completed. Thats because, for example, if such a payment is 
part of a scam, quite often the scammer will coach the account / card holder to authorise 
the payment by doing that  in other words, an OTP isnt necessarily confirmation that the 
payment is not fraudulent.
So  in those cases, firms will speak to a customer to confirm all is OK and the payment can 
be made. And in the case of both payments in question  thats what happened. I cant say 
exactly why the specific payments here were held and subjected to further checks  as Ive 
said.
In the case of Mr Ts first payment, he had to call Creation and had to wait a long time to get 
through. I can see he tried to make the payment a second time, and then it was made at 
15.55  42 minutes after the first attempt. Mr T argues that having to call Creation is 
inefficient, and I can see it must have been a frustrating experience for him. But - we cant 
tell businesses to change their operations, processes, or procedures  thats up to them, and 
we cant interfere. In other words, if Creation needed to speak to Mr T, and that meant he 
had to call  then I accept that.
Mr T says that his card was blocked and it wasnt unblocked until the following day. We 
asked Creation about this and they showed us it was unblocked by 15.55. Ive considered 
this point. And the card must have been unblocked then otherwise the payment of 
£2,106.99 couldnt be made.  
I can see that for a small payment of £52.45 to be declined must have been very frustrating 
and it does appear odd  for such a small amount. But  Im afraid that I have to say again 
that it is for Creation to decide which payments it authorises and which ones it doesnt, for 
the same reasons Ive set out.
Equally, for Creation to say that a three-day turnaround to contact customers about a 
payment does sound a long time  as the department in question works Monday to Friday. 
But - that is their business process, and we cant make them change that.
In summary, while I appreciate what Mr T and Mrs T say  the crux of the issue is that 
Creation have security checks in place, and its reasonable that this is the case. And the 
process of speaking to customers is a necessary part of that. I can see that this may cause 
some frustration and be time consuming for some customers, but its not something which I 
can say is unreasonable for the reasons Ive set out.
I can see that Mr T and Mrs T feel strongly about their complaint. And will therefore be 
disappointed by my decision. But in the circumstances of this complaint, I am not asking 
Creation to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman