DRN-4290278
The complaint
Mr T complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds (Admiral) delay in dealing 
with his claim under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr T says he was involved in an accident which caused damage to his car. He reported this 
to Admiral, and he says it took them a week to get him a courtesy car and many months 
before his car was taken into a garage for repairs. Mr T says he paid the excess for his car 
to be returned, but he drove it a short distance before it broke down. So, Mr T complained 
about the service hed received. This included the delay and about the courtesy car not 
being suitable due to its size. 
Admiral responded and accepted there had been delay in originally getting Mr Ts car into a 
garage for repairs and then, following the car breaking down, further frustration to Mr T 
because his car had to be taken back into the garage. They agreed Mr T had contacted 
them on a number of occasions and also about errors made in the complaint handling 
process. Admiral acknowledged that Mr T just wants his car repaired and returned. They 
noted Mr Ts complaint about the courtesy car not being suitable and explained theyd 
already paid him £200 compensation for this. For the complaints upheld, Admiral confirmed 
theyd sent a cheque for a further £250 compensation.     
Our investigator looked into things for Mr T. She thought Admirals offer of £450 was fair.     
Mr T disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Admirals offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand  
Mr T will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. The key facts about the complaint arent in dispute. Admiral accept they got 
things wrong by taking around four months to get Mr Ts car into a garage for repairs, there 
being issues even after the car was returned to Mr T, the complaints handling and Mr T 
having to contact Admiral numerous times. 
Admiral also accept there was an error involving the courtesy car. The only issue I have to 
decide is whether their offer of £450 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I think its right that Admiral should compensate Mr T for the upset, frustration and 
inconvenience caused. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of compensation 
should be, Ive looked at the errors by Admiral and the impact it has had. 
I can see it was around four months before Mr Ts car was taken into a garage for repairs. 
Admiral were making enquiries with their approved repairer, but it appears capacity issues 
meant it took longer to find a garage that could carry out the repairs. During this time, its 
clear Mr T was very frustrated at how long things were taking as hed chased a number of 
times to find out what was happening and raised complaints. Mr Ts frustration was then 
compounded when, after his car was delivered back to him, it broke down  this led to it 
having to go back into a garage. This meant Mr T was still without his car. 
I can see Mr T was provided with a courtesy car but there was an issue with the size of the 
car. I acknowledge the frustration this caused Mr T, but the policy terms and conditions do 
say the courtesy car isnt intended to be a like for like replacement and will typically be a 
small hatchback. So I think the £200 compensation Admiral have awarded for this is fair 
because the delay meant Mr T was left with the courtesy car for longer than he shouldve 
been. 
I acknowledge Mr T says, while he was waiting for his car to go into a garage, he was paying 
his premium in monthly instalments. I understand Mr T is frustrated about having to pay 
these instalments for insurance on a car he couldnt use. But, the insurance covers a range 
of things for which Mr T was still receiving the benefits of the policy, even though he couldnt 
use his car. The repairs were being carried out under Mr Ts policy and the courtesy car was 
also provided under this as well as cover while driving the courtesy car. So, even though    
Mr T wasnt able to drive his car for a number of months, I cant say the policy carried no 
value or benefit for him. I do accept though Mr T was clearly upset and frustrated about the 
delay while he was paying these instalments and not being able to use his car, and thats 
something Ive factored into my assessment of a reasonable level of compensation.     
When Mr Ts car was returned to him, I can see he had to pay his excess of £400. I 
understand it was upsetting for Mr T when his car then broke down. The policy terms and 
conditions describe the excess as the amount Mr T must pay towards the claim. So, while I 
cant say its unreasonable for Admiral to expect Mr T to pay for this, Ive thought about the 
upset and frustration caused to Mr T when his car broke down after it had been returned. 
I also note Mr T says he is paying finance on his car  which he has been without for several 
months now. I acknowledge Mr Ts frustration, but I dont think its fair to hold Admiral 
responsible for these payments. The finance has been arranged as a method of funding the 
purchase of the car so its not a direct financial loss which has arisen as a consequence of 
Admirals errors. However, and similar to the approach Ive taken with the insurance 
payments Mr T has been making over the period of the delay, I have factored in the 
frustration to Mr T of having to make these payments over a period when Admirals errors 
meant he was without his car for longer than he shouldve been.     
So, taking this all into account, I think there has been upset, frustration and inconvenience 
caused to Mr T as a result of the delays and having to chase to find out what was 
happening. This was compounded when his car had to be returned to the garage. I do 
however have to take into account that the inconvenience of Mr T not having his own car 
was limited to an extent by him having a courtesy car. I acknowledge it wasnt the size of car 
Mr T wanted, and this impacted him and his family being able to spend time away. But the 
policy doesnt offer a car equivalent to Mr Ts own car. 
So, taking into consideration the overall impact on Mr T, I think the offer of £450 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.   
My final decision
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has already made an offer to pay £450 compensation 
to Mr T to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.So my decision is that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should pay Mr T £450, if they 
havent done so already.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman