DRN-2066956
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy about how esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas Wheels 
handled their motor insurance claim after theyd been in an accident.
For ease of reading I will refer only to Mrs W in my decision.
What happened
Mrs W was involved in a serious road traffic accident in July 2020, resulting in her husband 
being taken to hospital. She said while in a distressed state she reported the accident to her 
motor insurer, esure . On reporting the accident and informing esure of the age of her car, 
and the damage caused she said she was told her car would be deemed a total loss without 
any involvement or discussion with her. And she was surprised to be later told her car had 
been sent to auction before any settlement had been agreed.
Mrs W said her car was over 10 years old,  but it was immaculate, and had been well 
looked after as well as being a limited edition. She said the pre accident value (PAV)  esure 
offered for her car was below the market value.  And she asked why her car was deemed a 
total loss when she could have bought it back. Mrs W said a proper investigation of her car 
wasnt done as there wasnt a physical inspection, the decision was  made from 
photographic evidence. She is also unhappy the hire car she was given was taken back. And 
she said there was a delay in being reimbursed for the loss of her car seats. She complained 
to esure.
E0.sure said Mrs Ws car had been damaged beyond economical repair and had been sent 
direct to salvage. Theyd also reimbursed her for her car seats and personal belongings 
totalling £286.57. They said theyd valued Mrs Ws car using the industry standard guides 
and theyd reviewed this after Mrs W disputed the amount.  Following review Mrs W was 
offered an additional £87. They agreed there had been a delay with the supplier for the car 
seats and compensated Mrs W £50 for the trouble this had caused.
Mrs W wasnt happy with esures response as she said her car had been undervalued and 
had been based on age and her description at a time when she was in shock from the 
accident. She referred her complaint to us. 
Our investigator said the PAV had been decided upon in line with our approach. And esure 
had applied the terms of Mrs Ws motor insurance policy fairly.
Mrs W didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mrs Ws frustration, shed not only been involved in a serious road traffic 
accident. But this being her first time making a claim against her motor insurance policy 
shed felt left out of the decision-making process about her own car. And shed had a much-
loved car taken from her without she said a suitable reimbursement to purchase a similar 
car.
Our role isnt to determine the outcome of the accident claim, but In reaching my decision I 
need to determine whether esure has applied their terms correctly, and have treated Mrs W 
fairly and reasonably. I have considered all of the points Mrs W has brought in her complaint. 
And have addressed the main issues below.
Pre-accident Valuation
I have looked at Mrs Ws motor insurance policy and this says that the PAV is calculated at 
market value:
The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on 
the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the value is 
based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and mileage at 
the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor trade guides 
including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not be the price you paid when you 
purchased the car.
Our usual approach to complaints about car valuations is to look at motor trade
guides for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive because their valuations 
are based on nationwide research and likely selling prices. 
The guides refer to advertised and auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for 
the same vehicle would be. This takes into account all the specifications of the vehicle as 
well as any extras and the mileage. If a guide price is significantly higher or lower than the 
others, we may think its reasonable to ignore it. This depends on the value of the vehicle.
Mrs W has said the amount esure has valued her car at is unfair because shes seen
similar vehicles advertised at higher prices. And hers was a limited edition. We wouldnt 
normally place as much weight on adverts to decide whether a valuation is fair. Differences 
in mileage or year of registration can significantly affect value, and sometimes the vehicle 
actually ends up selling for a lower price than advertised. 
esure has used an average across the motor trade guides: 
Glass's - £5,180
Parkers £6,455
CAP - £5,487
Cazana - £7,100
An average across all four is £6,056, the amount initially offered by esure.. But after Mrs W 
challenged the PAV, esure on review used: 
Glasss - £5,180 (unchanged)
Parkers - £6,455 (unchanged)
Cap - £5,490
Cazana  - £7,447The average across the four increased to £6,143 a difference of £87. The change was likely 
due to a daily fluctuation in the Cazana valuation.
By looking at the guide prices together our approach would be to say this is fair. Mrs W has  
questioned our approach as she said the trade guides dont accurately reflect the true
value of cars. In support of that Mrs W quoted the following from our website: Although, you 
should be aware that more recently, weve been told by some trade guides that generally 
cars are selling at or close to advertised prices.
And Mrs W has provided us with several car adverts for a similar make and model to her 
own. I agree they are similar, and the prices quoted are nearer to the Cazana guide. But the 
variance in the advertised prices, with there being over a £1,000 difference between the 
lowest and highest, demonstrates that valuing a car isnt an exact science. And having 
looked at the car adverts Mrs W has provided, while they do give an idea of the selling price 
of cars with similar specifications sold around the time of the valuation. The car adverts dont 
show the mileage of the cars being sold, which can have an impact on the value. And any 
selling price has an element included to allow for negotiation.
As mentioned above, the guides are based on extensive nationwide research of likely selling
prices. So, while individual cars may be advertised at a higher or lower price, or they may in
fact sell at a higher or lower price, the guides give an average value of a car with its specific
characteristics. We normally use the three motor trade guides CAP, Glasses and Cazana. 
We dont tend to use Parkers valuations on most motor insurance complaints, as it only 
shows values from the last three months.
I can see that our check of these guides showed similar valuations to that found by esure. 
Its for that reason I feel the valuation used by esure is reasonable. Im therefore not 
upholding this aspect of Mrs Ws complaint. 
Mrs W has said she hasnt as yet received the increased valuation of £87, and Id now 
expect esure to pay this amount, if they havent already to Mrs W.
Total Loss
Mrs W said her car was deemed a total loss based only on photographs. And it was sent to 
auction before shed agreed to any settlement. Again, Ive looked at Mrs Ws motor 
insurance policy. This says:
We have full discretion in the settlement of your claim or any legal proceedings which may 
arise and we may take over, defend or settle the claim in your name for our own benefit
If we decide that your car is a total loss after providing the courtesy car, it will be withdrawn.
And define:
we, us, our, the company - esure Insurance Limited.
The insurer can decide at what value it thinks a car is uneconomical to repair. So, we 
wouldnt necessarily say an insurer was wrong to decide not to repair a car when the cost of 
those repairs was more than 60-70%. Wed need to look at whether theyd made their 
decision reasonably. 
esure instructed an independent engineer to review the damage caused to Mrs Ws car. I 
understand shes unhappy that this was only done with photographic evidence. But 
engineers are the experts in this field. And from the engineers report I can see the estimated 
costs for repairing Mrs Ws car was over £11,000, which would indicate the damage was extensive. And in excess of the PAV from the guides as well as in excess of all of the cars 
Mrs W saw being advertised for sale. So, I dont think esure acted unreasonably in deeming 
Mrs Ws car beyond economical repair. 
Mrs W has said her car shouldnt have been sent to auction until she had agreed the PAV 
settlement. But Mrs Ws policy says:
Well decide which method we use to settle your claim.
If we settle your claim as a total loss, the car will become our property.
While I think Mrs W should have the opportunity to dispute the PAV applied to her car, as 
she has done. As Ive outlined above, I dont think esure has been unreasonable in deeming 
Mrs Ws car a total loss. And so, the car according to the policy terms shed agreed to 
became esures property. So, I dont think esure acted unreasonably by sending Mrs Ws car 
to auction.
Personal belongings
There was a delay in reimbursing Mrs W for her personal belongings including car seats. Her 
policy says:
Well contribute up to £100 towards the cost of replacing each child car seat/booster seat if 
they were in your car at the time of the accident you are claiming for.
Esure has said that Mrs W didnt inform them in the initial call about the car seats. Which I 
think is understandable given the trauma Mrs W had experienced. But on being advised I 
can see that esure has reimbursed Mrs W in line with the policy terms. And acknowledged 
there was a delay. I think esures offer of £50 in recognition of this is fair.
I know Mrs W will be disappointed with my decision. And I know the whole situation has 
been very distressing for her. She has experienced trauma and shock. But I cant say that 
esure has acted unfairly or unreasonably in their actions with Mrs W.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman