DRN-1234634
 
The complaint
Mrs S complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited handled a claim made on her motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S was involved in an accident and Ageas repairer collected her car for repair. But Mrs S 
was unhappy with the time the courtesy car was delivered, the amount of fuel it had and the 
branding on the car. She had her car repaired herself but she was unhappy that Ageas still 
recorded this as a non-fault claim. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Ageas 
had acted within the policy terms and conditions and fairly and reasonably in providing the 
courtesy car. He thought it had correctly recorded the claim as for information only and Mrs 
Ss No Claims Discount (NCD) was unaffected. 
Mrs S replied that the premium for another car had increased and she thought this was due 
to Ageas recording a claim. She said Ageas had recorded two claims even though she 
hadnt claimed anything.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint
I can understand that Mrs S felt embarrassed when the courtesy car arrived unexpectedly 
and when she saw that it was advertising the services of the repairing garage. She was also 
unhappy that it didnt have enough fuel for her planned journey.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mrs Ss policy provides a small courtesy car when her car is being repaired at an approved 
repairer. It doesnt say whether the courtesy car would be branded with the garages details. 
But I think the policy simply states that a car will be provided to keep Mrs S mobile, and this 
is what was provided. I can see that the garage confirmed that it didnt have any courtesy 
cars without logos. And Ageas checked to see if there was an alternative repairer nearby. I 
think thats fair and reasonable. 
Mrs S said she expected a call an hour before the cars delivery so that she would be ready. 
I can understand that this would be good customer service. But I cant see that this is 
required by the policy or that Mrs S was told this would happen. Ageas explained that 
deliveries are made in either morning or afternoon slots and couldnt be more specific. I cant 
say this is unfair or unreasonable. Mrs S said the car didnt have sufficient fuel for her purposes. Ageas has provided evidence 
that the car had sufficient fuel for 92 miles. I think this was enough for Mrs S to plan her 
journey and refuel if needed. So I cant say this was unreasonable. 
Ageas incurred costs in the claim as the repairing garage had ordered parts and had 
delivered a courtesy car to Mrs S, even though she refused it. Mrs S then had repairs made 
at her own cost. But she was involved in an incident that caused damage to her car. I think 
Ageas recorded the claim correctly as for information only, noting that Mrs S hadnt 
pursued the claim, and Mrs Ss NCD was unaffected. I cant see that this was unfair or 
unreasonable. 
Mrs S said she was unable to pursue cover elsewhere as she had to accept two claims 
recorded against her as factual. She also said her premium for another car had increased. 
But I cant hold Ageas responsible for another insurers processes. I think its correctly 
recorded Mrs Ss claim that was the subject of this complaint. So I cant say it has acted 
unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8July2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman