DRN-3300886
The complaint
Mrs C and Ms C complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc  trading as More 
Th>n (RSA) has handled and progressed their claim for subsidence on their home 
insurance policy. 
Throughout the claim and complaint Mrs C and Ms C have been represented by Mr C. For 
ease of reading Ive referred to Mr C throughout my decision. But all references to Mr C 
include the actions of Mrs C and Ms C who he is representing throughout.
What happened
Mrs C and Miss C jointly held a home insurance policy for Mrs Cs property. The policy was 
underwritten by RSA. 
In 2014 Mr C made a claim on their behalf under the subsidence cover on the policy, after 
noticing cracks in the property. RSA accepted the claim and carried out investigations to 
determine the cause. It concluded the subsidence had been caused by root induced clay 
shrinkage and identified vegetation that should be removed in order to stabilise the property. 
After this RSA were satisfied the property had stabilised and repairs to the damage could be 
carried out.
However Mr C didnt agree this was sufficient and thought the property should be 
underpinned. In 2017 he brought a complaint to this service about this and the progress of 
the claim to that date. An ombudsman issued a decision requiring RSA to pay £2,000 
compensation for the delays. However didnt agree the property should be underpinned. 
Following this, a site visit was arranged with Mr Cs own appointed engineer present. 
Subsequently a scope of works was compiled for repairs. In the months that followed there 
was some disagreement around the scope of works and whether planning approval was 
required. In April 2018 the scope was signed off and a cash settlement offer was put to Mr C 
in May that year. 
Repairs began towards the end of 2018 and were completed in September 2019. However 
the following month Mr C reported that there were new cracks appearing in the property. 
RSAs contractors attended to inspect the new cracks and decided further monitoring would 
be required to check the stability of the property. The monitoring continued until May 2020. 
And based on the results, further vegetation was identified to be causing movement at the 
property. RSA wrote to Mr C to explain this.
However Mr C wasnt happy with the outcome of the monitoring. He said the claim had now 
continued for a further three years after his original complaint and his property wasnt stable 
or fully repaired. He thought RSA had failed to identify the cause of the subsidence and as a 
result should now underpin the property to ensure it was stable. He made a complaint.
RSA responded to his complaint in December 2020. It didnt agree that it had failed to 
identify the cause of the subsidence or that underpinning was required. However it accepted 
it had caused a delay of around two months since Mr Cs last complaint and offered £500 
compensation to apologise for this.
Mr C was unhappy with this response. He said RSA had chosen an unsuitable datum point 
for the monitoring that had skewed the results. He said it had now agreed to change this, but 
this had caused a delay to getting correct monitoring results. He also maintained that the 
property should now be underpinned. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
agreed RSA had caused a short delay but thought the £500 offered was fair to make up for 
that. And she thought RSA had acted fairly by not moving to underpin the property.
Mr C didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of this complaint I am only considering events between Mr Cs last complaint that this 
service considered in August 2017 and RSAs final response to this complaint issued in 
December 2020. Im aware that since this date, there have been further disagreements 
about the claim. However anything after these dates would need to be raised as a separate 
complaint to give RSA the opportunity to respond. 
As part of this complaint, Mr C is unhappy that RSA hasnt offered to underpin his property. 
And he thinks the claim has been unnecessarily delayed. Ive considered these points in 
turn.
Underpinning 
At this service, it isnt our place to direct a business to do a certain type of repairs, as we 
arent experts in building repairs. Instead its for us to look at the evidence provided by those 
that are experts, in order to determine whether the business has taken suitable steps and 
acted fairly, based on the evidence.  
In this claim I can see that originally vegetation was identified as the cause of the 
subsidence. The trees identified were removed and this stabilised the property. However 
more recently Mr C has reported further movement, so I understand his concerns that the 
previous tree removal hasnt solved the problem. RSA has since instructed a further arborist 
report which has identified additional trees as the likely cause of the further movement. So 
its reasonable for RSA to pursue this as the course of action, based on the expert report. 
Underpinning is an expensive and expansive undertaking. And this service would only 
usually expect a business to underpin a property if it hadnt been successful in stabilising it 
by other means and therefore superstructure repairs wouldnt be possible. So while I 
appreciate Mr C thinks underpinning is the most appropriate repair, it isnt unreasonable for 
RSA to explore other options first. And as it has followed the recommendations of its 
appointed experts, I dont consider that it has acted unfairly by not underpinning the 
property. 
Delays
I agree this claim has progressed very slowly. And Id have expected it to have progressed 
further by December 2020 after the complaint this service reviewed in 2017. However, subsidence claims do take a long time to resolve. This is especially due to the 
required time for monitoring, that can mean months can go by without it feeling like there is 
any meaningful progress. As part of this complaint, I can only hold RSA responsible for 
delays that it has caused, that could have been avoided. And not those that were out of its 
control. 
Ive looked at the timeline, claim notes and correspondence on this claim since the 2017 
complaint. And I can see there are a number of reasons why it has been delayed, but most 
have been outside of RSAs control. There were times when issues were in dispute, that 
needed to be resolved before the claim could be moved forward. And when additional 
monitoring was required due to further movement. I dont agree these could have been 
avoided, and think RSA responded promptly and appropriately to these issues.
However I agree there were some points when RSA could have acted more quickly. There 
were a couple of occasions where information wasnt provided promptly to Mr C and where  
visits werent scheduled as quickly as they could have been. From my review Ive identified 
around a four month delay that could have been avoided in the three year period.
Ive also considered what Mr C has said about RSA using an incorrect datum point for the 
monitoring. RSAs expert has accepted that the datum point has developed movement 
throughout the claim. However said that when it was first selected as the point for monitoring 
there was no sign of movement. So while I can understand why Mr C is disappointed that 
datum point has been moved and monitoring will now continue for longer than it may have 
done, I dont think RSA acted unreasonably when setting up the monitoring originally. And it 
has since responded to Mr Cs concerns by moving the datum point, which I think is 
reasonable.
So considering everything, I think RSA has caused around four months of delays during the 
period this complaint covers. Its offered £500 compensation to apologise for any delays and 
I think this is fair in the circumstances, and in line with our approach to similar cases. So I 
wont ask it to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman