DRN-3144447
The complaint
Ms M has complained about Fairmead Insurance Limited. She isnt happy about the way it 
dealt with a claim under her home insurance policy.
  
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Ms M made a claim under her home insurance policy after she discovered some cracks at 
the rear of her property where she had previously had subsidence damage about 20 years 
earlier. Fairmead instructed an engineer to have a look at the damage and suggested 
undertaking repairs to her property to make good the damage.
But Ms M wasnt happy about this as she thought her property required underpinning and so 
she complained to this service. Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold 
her complaint. Although she sympathised with Ms Ms position, she didnt think Fairmead 
had done anything wrong. This was because it had appointed an engineer which advised 
that the property didnt require underpinning but proposed a fair way to repair the property. 
Ms M didnt agree and provided a report of her own that suggested the best way to repair 
her property was to underpin it. And she suggested that failure to do this would undermine 
any future sale of her property. So, the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think the complaint 
should be partly upheld. But I want to give both sides the opportunity to comment before 
finalising my decision. So Ill outline my present thoughts below.
Although I can understand Fairmeads position I dont think it has provided sufficient 
evidence to reach the conclusion it has reached about whether underpinning is or isnt 
required. Its engineer has provided a report explaining that even though there was a 
subsidence problem some 20 years ago that doesnt mean a similar fix wont be successful 
now or that underpinning is required.
Fairmeads engineer said that In view of the time elapsed since the last claim and the 
monitoring readings, it is still our recommendation that crack repairs are carried out. It is our 
view that the cracking is due to slight consolidation of the fill material upon which the 
buildings are constructed. It is our opinion that minimal movement has occurred over the 
significant period since the previous crack damage reported circa 1997. And Fairmead 
undertook movement inspections over a number of months and noted very little movement.
However, Ms M appointed her own structural engineer who provided an opposing view and 
he has outlined that the property should be underpinned. And that any failure to do this 
would have a long-term impact on the property and the ability to gain a mortgage amongst 
other things. Ms Ms engineer says he is more qualified than Fairmeads engineer as he is a 
structural engineer. He also says that the previous repair didnt resolve the problem and 
basically a system of underpinning should have been employed to ensure the disturbed 
area was adequately supported.. Plus, Ms M has clearly outlined that she has had 
problems with her doors and windows caused by the movement in her property and 
Fairmead havent provided any detail or commentary about this - although I understand that 
a specialist report about the condition of the doors and windows was undertaken.
But what sways me most on this case is that Fairmeads own engineer suggested it may well 
be worth appointing an independent structural engineer in order to finalise this complaint and 
to get to the bottom of whether underpinning was required. I know Fairmead dismissed this 
at the time, but this feels a fair way forward. Especially as Fairmead only undertook three 
movement readings when it suggested that it would do six over a year or so period.
Im sure if a further report into the movement on the house can be undertaken now, and 
cross referenced with this report, then a firmer conclusion can be reached. And as quite a 
period of time has passed I think this would give a clear indication to the appointed structural 
engineer of what is happening and any potential movement on the house.
I must highlight to Ms M that the independent report may support the present position and 
maintain that crack repairs are carried out. And if it does then I think the proposed repairs 
that Fairmead have suggested would be fair. I would just expect Fairmead to provide Ms M 
with a certificate of structural stability. However, I would expect it to revisit the CIL offer 
made (if that is the path Ms M chooses). I say this as Fairmeads own notes suggest the CIL 
offer may be low and costs are likely to have increased given the passage of time.
Given all of this, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case, is for Fairmead to appoint an independent structural engineer to consider the 
claim. They can consider the additional movement report, compare it to the previous report 
and consider whether Fairmeads proposal is fair or if underpinning is required.
Replies and developments
Both sides responded to my provisional decision. 
Fairmead referred the matter back to its loss adjusters. Its loss adjuster maintained 
Fairmead had reached a fair conclusion. And said that its proposed repair would be robust 
and would not affect the re-sale or future mortgaging of the property.
However, they accepted the position put forward in my provisional decision about appointing 
an independent structural engineer. But they felt that any engineer appointed should be 
independent and not chosen by Ms Ms representative. They also felt that any engineer 
appointed should be conversant with insurance related subsidence claims and suggested 
sourcing three engineering firms from the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) 
register and allowing Ms M to pick one and the report produced would be binding on all 
parties. 
Similarly, Ms Ms representative said Ms M agreed with the provisional decision. But said 
this was conditional upon Fairmead providing a choice of three independent engineers for 
the insured to select from, to ensure that they are truly independent from Fairmead.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I dont propose to go over the finer detail of this case again as both sides have, in the main, 
agreed with my provisional decision. While I accept that Fairmead still feels its initial 
proposals were reasonable it has accepted that an independent engineer should be 
appointed. Indeed, both sides have suggested a similar plan of action which I agree feels fair 
in the particular circumstances of this case. 
As such, I remain of the view that the fair and reasonable thing to do is for Fairmead to 
appoint an independent structural engineer to consider the claim. And that Fairmead should 
identify three appropriately qualified engineers from the RICSs register. And Ms M and her 
representative can choose the engineer from Fairmeads independent list - who can consider 
the additional movement report, compare it to the previous report and consider whether 
Fairmeads proposal is fair or if underpinning is required.
 My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead 
Insurance Limited to agree the appointment of an independent structural engineer with Ms M 
and pay their costs. They can consider the additional movement report, compare it to the 
previous report and consider all evidence in deciding whether Fairmeads proposal is fair or 
if underpinning is required. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman