DRN-3225900
The complaint
Mr W complains that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society (NFU) mis-
sold him a Home and Lifestyle Insurance policy as he was unable to claim for legal 
expenses.
NFU use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses insurance and manage claims on 
their behalf. So, any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including 
the acts or omissions of such intermediaries. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons set 
out below.
Mr W considers that his policy has been mis-sold by NFU as he discovered it would only 
cover him for legal defence costs arising from his work as an employee. He says this isnt 
what he requested, and that he retired from work in 2018, so he submits that they ought to 
have changed his policy to cover domestic legal defence costs. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Mr Ws policy was taken out (and renewed) 
on a non-advised basis. This is also made clear in the renewal documentation he was sent 
each year, and Ive seen no evidence that any personal recommendations were made about 
the cover. This means that NFU didnt need to ensure the policy was suitable for his specific 
needs. But they did need to provide enough information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading, such that Mr W would be able to make an informed choice about whether the 
policy was right for him.
I can see that NFU sent Mr W his policy documentation when he first took it out in November 
2012. This included a key features document for the legal expenses section of the policy, 
which clearly set out the circumstances in which NFU would cover legal defence costs:
Legal defence arising from work as an employee leading to:
-criminal prosecution;
-civil action for unlawful discrimination on the grounds of sex, race, disability, 
religious beliefs or political opinion;
-civil action against an insured person under section 13 of the Data Protection Act 
1998;
-prosecution for the use or driving of a motor vehicle. 
So, Im satisfied Mr W ought reasonably to have been aware of this policy term, including the 
fact that he would only be covered for legal defence costs arising out of his work as an 
employee. Mr W was subsequently sent renewal documentation each year, which set out 
any changes that had been made to the policy terms and conditions. I understand the full 
policy documentation may not have been sent again to Mr W each year. But I dont think this 
is unreasonable or unusual, so long as the policy documentation has been sent at inception 
or has been made available on line (which I can see it had been) and so long as any 
changes in the terms are highlighted at renewal  which I can see that they were. 
Mr W says he specifically requested for his legal defence cover to extend to all scenarios 
(whether work related or otherwise) when he retired in 2018. Theres no contemporaneous 
evidence to show what exactly Mr W requested in 2018, so I cant be sure that NFU has 
actually ignored anything that Mr W had requested. But, in any event, NFUs legal defence 
cover does not extend to situations that do not arise from the policyholders work or 
employment. The renewal documentation sent to him also stated that he should read the 
enclosed document thoroughly to make sure the cover still meets your needs. And, as this 
was a non-advised sale, NFU did not need to ensure it was suitable for his needs. So, Mr W 
ought reasonably to have checked whether the legal defence cover was in line with his 
requirements, and Im satisfied NFU provided enough information for him to make this 
determination. Therefore, Im not persuaded it has been mis-sold in these circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr W is disappointed that his claim for legal defence costs has been declined. 
But I do not consider it has been declined unfairly, given that the circumstances of the 
defence did not arise from his work. And the fact that the policy does not cover his claim 
does not mean that it was mis-sold or that it would have been of no benefit to him. Indeed, 
there are various other aspects of the legal expenses policy that he would be able to use if 
he needed to, such as cover for contract/property disputes and personal injury.
I understand that NFU also incorrectly recorded Mr Ws occupation on his insurance 
documentation. But they offered £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by this error. And while I appreciate it would have been frustrating for him to have 
learnt about this administrative error, Im not persuaded it has had any greater impact than 
minor upset or inconvenience (it hasnt led to a claim being wrongly declined, for example). 
Therefore, Im satisfied that £100 represents fair compensation in these circumstances and I 
do not consider that any higher award is warranted. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr W, but Im not persuaded that NFU 
need to take any further action in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman