DRN-4404091
The complaint
Ms J has complained that esure Insurance Limited unfairly reduced her total loss payment 
for her car under her motor policy.
What happened
Ms Js car was stolen so she made a claim to esure. It decided the market value of her car 
was approximately £47,000, with which Ms J said she was satisfied. 
However, during its validation of her claim, esure discovered Ms J had points on her licence 
from speeding of which it said it was unaware. It said had it known this, her premium would 
have been higher. Esure said its underwriters said that meant Ms J had only paid 76.59% of 
her premium. It said that situation consequently entitled it to only pay her 76.59% of her 
claim, effectively reducing the amount payable for the market value of her car to £35,000, 
according to Ms J. 
Ms J then insured her old car also with esure. She told them about her points on her licence. 
She said she specifically asked if those speeding points affected her premium amount and 
was told by esure that it didnt. So, Ms J said that begged the question as to why the 
speeding points affected the premium for one car but didnt for another, which also meant 
the deduction of £12,000 from the market value of her stolen car. 
Ms J complained to esure, but it didnt change its stance, so she brought her complaint to us. 
The investigator upheld her complaint recommending that esure pay the full agreed market 
value of the car namely £47,000. She was of the view that esure hadnt shown sufficient 
evidence that the speeding points on Ms Js licence did affect the premium price by as much 
as it said. So, it wasnt clear that the reduction on the market value of her car was fair. The 
investigator repeatedly asked for the appropriate underwriting information to verify esures 
calculations, but it wasnt forthcoming. Therefore, she concluded it was questionable as to 
whether the premium increase had been calculated reasonable so as to show that under the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) entitled esure to 
make the amount of this deduction from the market value of Ms Js stolen car. 
Ms J agreed with the investigators view. Esure didnt respond. So, on that basis Ms Js 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
 
Under CIDRA if the consumer makes a misrepresentation in the application for an insurance 
policy, the insurer needs to decide if the evidence shows that the misrepresentation was 
careless or deliberate and reckless. The overarching principle of CIDRA is that the consumer 
must answer all the questions asked truthfully and honestly. And those questions asked by 
the insurer must be clear and specific, and the insurer ought to have also made clear the 
importance of answering these questions. 
If like esure did here, the insurer decides the misrepresentation was merely careless - as Ms 
J said she was unaware of the speeding points and esure appeared to accept that  then the 
insurer must show what it would have done had it been aware of the correct information. 
If a claim had been made on the policy, the insurer needs to show any of the following:
 
It wouldnt have offered the consumer any policy at all. Then the insurer can avoid 
the policy, refuse all claims but it must return the premium paid. 
It would have offered insurance but on different terms. Then the insurer can continue 
to offer the policy but on these different terms. 
It would have charged a higher premium. Then the insurer can proportionally reduce 
the amount to be paid on a claim. 
This last one is what esure felt it was permitted to do with Ms Js claim. It said due to the lack 
of disclosure of these speeding offences, it would have increased her premium. It said Ms J 
had only paid 76.59% of the premium it would have charged her, so it was therefore only 
paying 76.59% of her claim. 
When considering complaints of this nature, our role is to ensure these percentages are fully 
verified by way of the underwriting guide so as to ensure someone like Ms J was treated 
fairly and not singled out and treated any differently to anyone else in her circumstances. We 
also need to ensure the questions asked were clear and specific and we need to know what 
answers Ms J gave to those questions. 
We first asked esure for its file on 4 April 2023 which should have included all this necessary 
information. It responded on 5 April, oddly saying it would send its file if it was still required. 
Meanwhile it enclosed an undated email to Ms J explaining that an operator error occurred 
when its operative was calculating the premium on her old car with the disclosure of the 
speeding points. That operative inputted the wrong year, being in the future, which in turn 
mean the premium quoted didnt take account of her speeding points. That was why that 
premium for Ms Js old car wasnt increased like it said her premium for her stolen car would 
have been increased. Im of the view that this is a probable explanation of the error made 
and so explains Ms Js confusion when she was insuring her old car. Esure also 
demonstrated that Ms J wouldnt be penalised for its operator error and the premium she 
had paid for her old car would remain as it was with full cover being made. I also consider 
this is reasonable given the error was esures fault. 
It also enclosed a file or document in a format we couldnt open, and it enclosed an 
insurance schedule. Crucially it didnt send us any underwriting information to show how Ms 
J only paid 76.59% of her premium and to show how it rated speeding points and how that 
would affect other consumers in this situation. And it didnt send us the questions it asked 
Ms J on application nor the answers she gave. 
The investigator responded on 17 April explaining we still required esures full file. And on 26 
April she specifically asked for the underwriting information to show the premium increase. 
The investigator repeatedly asked esure for the file and the underwriting information on 12 
May; 26 May; and 16 June, with no response at all from esure. 
A response was received from esure on 4 July, where it again enclosed the final response 
letter to Ms J, with a follow up email response explaining why the speeding points werent taken into account in the premium for her old car, the updated schedule, the schedule of 
insurance applicable at the point of claim, the policy booklet, and a summary. Again, a 
document or file was included which we couldnt open. But none of the underwriting or 
questions asked of Ms J on her application were disclosed.
So, the investigator responded on 2 August asking for screenshots of the underwriting 
criteria and noting we are unable to accept any written or copy and pasted evidence; a copy 
of the material facts the customer was asked at point of sale and her responses; and again, 
explaining a file was sent in a format we couldnt open so we needed it in a different format 
in order to know what it contained. She chased this information again on 15 August. As there 
was no response, she issued her view recommending this complaint should be upheld on 7 
September.
 
Esure asked us on 27 September what information we needed. And then on 26 October it 
said the reference we were using to which it had replied before now wasnt coming up on its 
system. We responded on 26 October explaining the reference we had used was the same 
one as on its final response letter to Ms J and we never received a reply after that. 
I consider weve given ample time to esure to provide the standard information we are duty 
bound to request to ensure any re-rating and increase of the premium was fair in the 
circumstances of Ms Js complaint. This is not a new requirement as its been our 
established practice for several years now in complaints concerning these sorts of issues 
since CIDRA was enacted in 2012.
 
Consequently, in view of the number of times the investigator tried to get this information 
from esure which should have formed part of esures file in the first instance, I dont consider 
its fair or reasonable to continue to delay any resolution of Ms Js complaint. 
Whilst its not unusual that a failure to disclose something like speeding points on a driving 
licence might alter the premium payable for a motor policy, there is no information before me 
from esure to explain and verify its calculations that Ms J merely paid 76.59% of the 
premium she should have paid for her policy with esure. Therefore, without that information 
and verification, I dont consider its fair and reasonable to conclude it might be correct. The 
consequent reduction in the payment of Ms Js otherwise valid claim for the market value of 
her car which was stolen is sizeable being £12,000. The market value of Ms Js car was 
£47,000 and she had only been paid £35,000. That essentially means esure has failed to 
adequately show its decision that this was such a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. 
Therefore, I dont consider its fair and reasonable that Ms J is so penalised by virtue of 
CIDRAs provisions either.
Consequently, I now consider its fair and reasonable esure now pays Ms J the additional 
£12,000 for the market value of Ms Js car which was stolen adding interest of 8% simple per 
year. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I now require esure Insurance Limited to do the following: 
Pay Ms J the additional sum of £12,000 being the remainder of the agreed total loss 
for her stolen car. 
Add interest of 8% simple per year from the date it paid the initial £35,000 to Ms J to 
the date it now pays this additional sum of £12,000. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to Ms J for HMRC 
purposes.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman