DRN-3224315
The complaint
Mr S complains Bamboo Limited didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks when 
approving him for a guarantor loan. 
  
What happened
Mr S was approved for a guarantor loan with Bamboo in November 2015. Mr S complained 
to Bamboo in January 2020 and it didnt uphold his complaint.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Hs complaint and didnt uphold it. He concluded Bamboo 
hadnt completed reasonable and proportionate checks before approving the loan. But he 
couldnt determine what reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown, as Mr S 
wasnt able to provide us with evidence of his financial situation at the time of the loan. Our 
investigator therefore concluded Bamboo had made a fair lending decision. 
As Mr S didnt agree the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision recently where I set out, with reasons, why I thought Bamboo 
didnt make a fair lending decision when approving the loan.
The following is an extract from that provisional decision.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ss complaint. Bearing in mind
the complaint before me, I think that there are a number of overarching questions I need to
consider in order to fairly and reasonably determine Mr Ss complaint. These are:
1. Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr S to satisfy itself he 
was in a position to afford to repay the loan sustainably?
If so, did it make a fair decision?
If not, would those checks have shown Mr S would have been able to do so?
2. Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive gone on to answer these questions in turn.
Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr S to satisfy itself he was 
in a position to afford to repay the loan sustainably?
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Bamboo lent required it to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks to assess Mr Ss ability to afford the loan and repay it 
sustainably over its term, without causing him financial difficulties.  
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers individual circumstances. 
It isnt sufficient for Bamboo to just complete proportionate checks  it must also consider the 
information it obtains from these checks to go on and make a fair lending decision.
Mr S has said hes been in financial difficulties since around 2005. He says hed been 
borrowing money from a number of high cost credit lenders over a sustained period of time, 
and had Bamboo completed more thorough checks it would have identified this loan wasnt 
affordable to him. 
Bamboo has said it completed a number of checks before approving Mr S for the loan. It 
says it obtained his monthly income figure and verified this via an online credit tool. It also 
says it obtained Mr Ss monthly rental figure and used its internal credit scoring system to 
identify his normal living expenses, based on Office of National Statistics data  and 
allocated around £854 to this. Bamboo also completed a credit file check on Mr S and used 
the information from the report to identify his monthly credit commitments  which it identified 
as roughly £536. It says it identified Mr S was left with around £180 per month after taking 
into account the payments towards this loan. It says it completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks and fairly concluded the loan was affordable to Mr S.
Ive carefully considered Bamboos argument but Im not persuaded it did complete 
reasonable and proportionate checks. I say this because the information it obtained showed 
Mr S was increasingly using credit in the months leading up to this application  and 
therefore may not have been managing his finances well. 
The credit file search Bamboo obtained shows Mr S had opened four credit card accounts 
within 12 months of this application, all of which were close to their limits. Mr S had also 
opened two unsecured loans in August 2015 for £1,400 and £2,500. And hed increased an 
existing credit card limit around this time too  which had been utilised close to its new 
increased limit. Mr S had also used the cash advance facility on his credit cards across the 
most recent 12-month period  at a total value of around £1,200. Theres also evidence that 
Mr S had used advances against his income within the six months leading up to this loan.
I consider Mr Ss increased use of credit within a relatively recent period of time leading up 
to this application suggests he was showing signs of financial problems. I consider Bamboo 
needed to obtain a thorough understanding of Mr Ss financial circumstances before 
approving him for this loan; to ensure it was sustainably affordable and wasnt increasing 
Mr Ss total indebtedness in a harmful way. The purpose of this loan is detailed as debt 
consolidation, but Im aware the total capital amount wouldnt have enabled Mr S to repay all 
his existing debts. As such, hed still have needed to make payments towards a proportion of 
his existing debts, in addition to this new loan. 
I consider reasonable and proportionate checks should have led Bamboo to verify Mr Ss 
actual income and expenditure to ensure the loan was sustainably affordable.
Would further checks have shown Mr S would have been able to meet any repayments 
sustainably?
As I dont consider Bamboo completed proportionate checks, Ive gone on to consider what 
further checks would have shown.
Bamboo could have verified the information in a number of ways. Our investigator asked 
Mr S to provide us with a copy of his bank statements covering a period of three months 
before the loan was approved. This allows us to obtain an understanding of Mr Ss financial 
position around the time Bamboo approved this loan; and whether the further checks it 
should have completed would have identified the loan was sustainably unaffordable to Mr S.Initially Mr S hadnt been able to provide his bank statements. But, after a further request, 
Mr S has now provided us with bank statements covering August and September 2015  two 
of the three months leading up to this loan.
Mr Ss income on his bank statements is largely in line with the income of £2,330 he 
declared to Bamboo. Mr S receives around £2,200 from his employer, and there are a 
couple of small credits from Mr Ss employer in both months which bring the total to around 
£2,330. Mr Ss expenditure across the months including his rent, living costs and debt 
servicing is broadly in line with Bamboos calculations of around £1,800.
There are multiple credits from high cost credit lenders across the months as Ive already 
detailed above; six credits from different providers totalling around £5,300. This is made up 
of a combination of advances against income and high cost loans. In addition, Mr S also has 
a running credit facility with another lender, which uses its available limit to keep Mr Ss bank 
account in a credit position at the end of each day. Mr Ss statements also show monthly 
payments to a debt collection company, suggesting Mr S has had historic as well as recent 
problems managing his money. 
Most significantly however, Mr Ss bank statements show evidence of gambling transactions. 
Across August and September 2015 there are over 30 debits across multiple days to 
multiple online gambling companies. And across August and September 2015 these debits 
total around £1,700.  
Bamboo had calculated Mr Ss disposable income to be around £180 per month after taking 
into account the repayments to this loan. But considering the high level of debits to online 
gambling companies, its clear Mr Ss disposable income wasnt anywhere near the level 
Bamboo had calculated. In fact, Mr Ss expenditure was more than his income each month; 
and he was supplementing his income with credit to fund his gambling and maintain 
payments to his existing essential expenditure and credit commitments. 
I consider had Bamboo completed reasonable and proportionate checks, it shouldve 
realised that in these circumstances it couldnt safely be satisfied the loan would be 
sustainably affordable for Mr S. And therefore, he wasnt a suitable candidate to lend to. 
As such, Im satisfied Bamboo Limited didnt make a fair lending decision when approving 
this loan.  
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive not seen any information which suggests Bamboo acted unfairly in any other way in 
relation to Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr S responded and accepted my provisional decision. Bamboo responded and said it had 
no further comments or evidence for me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as both parties are in agreement with my provisional findings and have 
presented no further comments or evidence for me to consider; I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings. It therefore follows I dont consider Bamboo made a fair lending decision when approving 
Mr S with this loan. This is for the reasons outlined in my provisional findings but in 
summary:
Reasonable and proportionate checks should have led Bamboo to verify Mr Ss 
income and outgoings to ensure the loan was sustainably affordable to him;
Had it completed reasonable and proportionate checks it should have identified Mr S 
was using credit to fund significant gambling transactions; and it ought to have 
concluded Mr S wasnt a suitable candidate to lend to.
 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr S to repay the principal amount he borrowed because 
hes had the benefit of that lending. But Mr S has paid interest on a loan that shouldnt have 
been provided to him. So, Bamboo Limited should: 
Refund all interest, fees and charges from the loan with 8% per annum simple 
interest from the date they arose to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation to the loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
Bamboo Limited must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my recent provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ss 
complaint about Bamboo Limited and I direct it to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman