DRN-2897815
The complaint
Mrs J complains British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) failed to carry out her annual 
boiler service under her HomeCare insurance policy and her boiler broke down as a result. 
What happened
In November 2019, Mrs Js Homecare insurance policy renewed for 12 months. It covered 
the cost of an annual boiler service and repairs to the boiler and its controls.
British Gas has given us a copy of Mrs Js service and breakdown history which shows her 
boiler was serviced in March 2019. Its said she was due her next service around 
March 2020  as theyre usually about 12 months apart. But around that time, its said 
government restrictions in response to the Coronavirus pandemic meant no boiler services 
could be carried out  as they were seen as non-essential. So it didnt go ahead. In any 
event, British Gas has pointed out that the terms of the policy say the time between services 
might be longer than 12 months. 
Around October 2020, a reminder was sent to Mrs J to book a service which she did the 
following day for December 2020. Unfortunately her boiler stopped working shortly before 
the service was due to take place. On 9 and 12 December 2020, the breakdown history 
shows a British Gas engineer serviced and repaired Mrs Js boiler. She was charged £99 to 
cover the excess for the repair.
Mrs J complained as she thought if a service had taken place, her boiler wouldnt have 
broken down. Shes also said the cost of the annual premium is too high and to put things 
right, British Gas should refund the years premium. British Gas didnt agree. It said the 
reason the boiler broke down wouldnt have been identified in a service. And in any event, 
even if it had been, Mrs J would be in the same situation as the boiler wouldve been 
repaired and she wouldve had to pay the excess. But it did offer to refund the price of the 
missed service  which it estimated to be around £65. 
As the complaint wasnt resolved at that stage, Mrs J asked our service to look into things. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the amount British Gas offered to 
refund was a fair reflection of the cost of the service. And she didnt think there was enough 
evidence to support Mrs Js view that the time between the two services caused the boiler to 
breakdown. She also didnt think it would be fair to ask British Gas to refund the full premium 
as Mrs J couldve still benefitted from the policy. As Mrs J didnt accept our investigators 
view, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs J mustve had a very difficult time recently  shes explained her husband 
has sadly passed away. I am very sorry for her loss and I thank her for taking the time to 
give us the information she has to support her complaint. But Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint, I know Mrs J will be very disappointed. Ill explain why. 
Ive looked carefully at the policy terms. These say an annual service may take place more 
or less than 12 months after the previous service. In the circumstances of this case, 
British Gas has said Mrs Js annual service would normally have taken place some time 
around March 2020. But because of the government restrictions put in place due to the 
pandemic, it couldnt carry out this type of service. And I dont think thats unreasonable. 
Mrs J thinks if the annual service had taken place, she wouldnt have had to pay for the 
boiler to be repaired. But I dont agree. British Gas has said the service is designed to clean 
the boiler and test the gas emissions. And its said the repair that was needed in 
December 2020 wouldnt have been prevented by these tests. I note Mrs J hasnt given us 
anything to show otherwise. 
I appreciate Mrs J might think if the service had taken place, the problem with the boiler 
might have been picked up sooner. But I can see if the engineer found the problem during 
the service, the policy terms say British Gas wouldve repaired it for a fee or the cost of the 
excess. So even if the service had taken place and the problem identified sooner, I think 
Mrs J wouldve always had to pay the excess she paid in December 2020 to get it repaired. 
So Im not persuaded shed be in any different a situation than shes in now. 
Mrs J doesnt think the refund British Gas has given her to make up for the missed service is 
enough. Shes said it would be fairer to refund the full years premium as she thinks it was 
too expensive. But the full premium covered her for both the service and breakdowns. And 
whilst  fortunately  her boiler didnt breakdown in the policy year 2019 to 2020, she had 
the cover available to use should she have needed to. And I can see in other policy years, 
she has made claims  and so wouldve likely used it that year if there were any problems. 
The purpose of insurance is to cover the policyholder in case something goes wrong. So just 
because in hindsight, Mrs J now knows she didnt need to use the part of the policy that 
covered her for repairs, it doesnt mean shes not benefitted from having insurance. 
British Gas has said it estimates the cost of the service wouldve been around £65. And 
under the cancellation charges within the policy terms, I can see customers are required to 
pay £65 if the policy is cancelled after a service is completed  to cover its cost. So I think 
the refund British Gas has given Mrs J is reasonable. And overall, based on everything Ive 
seen, I dont think British Gas needs to do anything more in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or reject my decision 
before 25 August 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman