DRN-4063498
The complaint
Mr D complains about the acts of Mr Y. He says that Mr Y was involved in the advice which 
resulted in the switch of his pensions to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) to invest 
through a discretionary fund manager (DFM)  SVS Securities PLC (SVS). He says Pi 
Financial Ltd (Pi) is responsible because Mr Y was with a business that was an appointed 
representative of it at the relevant time.
What happened
Mr Y worked for a business called Future Wealth Management Ltd (FWM) between 13 May 
2015 and 11 October 2018. That business was an appointed representative of Pi between 
15 January 2015 and 5 March 2019.
Mr D says towards the end of 2017, he was advised by Mr G to move his pensions to a
SIPP to be able to invest through a DFM called SVS. Mr D had dealt with Mr G as an adviser 
previously. 
He says on this occasion, he never received any documentation signed by Mr G. Instead, he 
says the advice letter dated 12 January 2018 provided to him by Mr G was on FWM headed 
paper with Mr Ys name. Mr D says he never met with or spoke with Mr Y. Despite this, the 
letter included the following:
It was good to meet with you on 14 December 2017. I am now writing to confirm the
content and outcome of our discussions
You will recall you were provided you [sic] with a copy of my Client Agreement on the 
14 December 2017 in which my terms of business and charging structure has been 
laid out. You instructed me to specifically limit my advice to Pension Planning, 
specifically setting up a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and I have acted 
accordingly. I have, therefore, only obtained the necessary information from you to 
advise on the above area. You should be aware that my recommendations may have 
differed if I had undertaken a full review of your financial circumstances
At the present time, your prime objective is to review your existing pensions 
contractand set up a SIPP to allow you to access your monies flexibly and have 
greater investment choice. You wish to consolidate your three plans under the one 
arrangement and have access to a wider panel of investments and the flexibility to 
change these to reflect your circumstances and attitude to risk as you have been 
disappointed with the returns in your with-profits fund. 
You also wish to be able to leave your entire fund to your family in the event of your 
death and wish your new arrangement to take advantage of new laws that benefit 
pensions in the future. You have requested that I research the market for a suitable 
SIPP provider with whom to invest all of your pension monies
Your only objective in retirement is that you wish to have a good standard of living 
which you have at the moment. You currently Have no mortgage outstanding on your 
property so your outgoings are more than manageable. You wished to give this sum 
of money the opportunity to grow so that you can use this to support your leisure 
pursuits in retirement . You currently feel that you are financially comfortable so these 
monies would just be used for any leisure pursuits or home improvements you may 
wish to do. You wish to have flexibility of with regards to whether monies are 
invested, how you can access these and how they are managed. 
You completed a risk profile questionnaire and you scored 5 out of 10. This puts you 
as a balanced risk investor. You agreed with this and feel this is a fair reflection of 
your understanding of financial products and your goals and aspirations
It was clear, given your requirement to have flexibility in terms of where your pension 
monies are invested, that a SIPP would be the best vehicle to allow you to do this
As previously outlined you wish to have your monies managed by an appropriate 
DFM with whom I will be recommending for you, having researched the market
As part of my duty of care to you I have considered the proposed portfolio and 
believe it suitable for you based on your current attitude to risk and capacity for 
loss
After due consideration of your attitude to risk, tolerance and capacity we have 
agreed that the most suitable portfolio for you is within the Mixed Model Portfolio
I believe that for you the active portfolio management that SVS Securities charges 
represent good value
Our fee structure is detailed in our client agreement which was given to you at your 
meeting.
An initial fee of 3.25% will be charged to meet the cost of our 
recommendation
There is an ongoing 1.00% charge of funds under management for 
ongoing service and advice, payable monthly.
The SIPP was set up on January 2018 and just over £70,000 was moved into it from Mr Ds 
three previous pensions. Most of that money was transferred to SVS in March 2018.
In 2019, SVS went into administration and it looks like Mr D suffered a significant loss to his 
pension from his holdings with SVS. 
After first contacting the Financial Services Compensation Scheme, Mr D complained to Pi 
saying that Pi was responsible for the advice.
Pi didnt uphold the complaint because it said the advice had been given by Mr G, not Mr Y. 
Although it also had an agreement with Mr G, this was an introducer agreement and it said 
he wasnt allowed to provide any advice.
When the complaint was referred to our service  and after an investigator initially upheld the 
complaint - Pi provided detailed information from a number of different complaints that it said 
showed a pattern of behaviour of Mr G holding himself out as an adviser at FWM. It said the 
complainants each believed that Mr G was their sole adviser  not Mr Y. Pi also said that Mr G was now advising people to make complaints about Pi. It said if Mr Y hadnt given any 
advice or been involved in the switches and investments, as it didnt think he had, we dont 
have jurisdiction to consider Mr Ds complaint against it. It therefore asked that we get Mr Ds 
detailed recollections of what happened.
Pi also said that if Mr Y of FWM had been involved, this would have breached the appointed 
representative agreement it had with Pi and that Pi would therefore not be responsible for 
the complaint.
Another investigator looked at things again and was still satisfied that we could consider 
Mr Ds complaint against Pi and that it should be upheld. In summary, she said that whilst Mr 
G had been involved, the evidence suggested Mr Y of FWM had also given advice and 
made arrangements and this was something that had been allowed under the appointed 
representative agreement with FWM.
Pi didnt agree. Ive read and considered its responses (including those of its legal 
representatives) in full. In summary, it has said:
It reiterated that Mr G had actively misrepresented to many complainants that he was 
an authorised adviser of FWM  when he was in fact only an introducer. He had likely 
also likely mislead Mr Y too in this process and it couldnt thus be inferred that Mr Y 
knew what was going on. 
Mr G had given the advice to Mr D. As an introducer, Mr G was not authorised to give 
advice on behalf of Pi.  He had fraudulently misrepresented the position to all parties.
There was no evidence that Mr Y had allowed Mr G to submit advice to complainants 
in Mr Ys name or that hed made any arrangements himself.
Mr G had obtained access to Mr Ys and FWMs portal, tools and stationary  this 
allowed him to produce documentation and submit forged applications under the 
pretense that he was an adviser of FWM.
None of the documentation was hand signed by Mr Y  his name was simply typed 
on the letters. This is unusual.
Even Mr D considered Mr G to be his adviser and was confused as to why the advice 
letter had Mr Ys details. He, like other complainants, simply went along with things 
as he trusted Mr G. Mr G was acting fraudulently and using his position of trust to 
mislead clients and the advice process and processing of the SIPP application had 
nothing to do with Mr Y or FWM.
Certification of the client identity check was forged to appear as though it was done 
by Mr Y.
The loss was caused by Mr G fraudulently giving advice.
Mr D is not and has never been a client of Pi  theres no past, present or future 
provision of services to Mr D by FWM. And as hes not a customer, hes not an 
eligible complainant.
Its clear from Mr Ds evidence that Mr G held himself out to be an adviser. Theres 
no evidence that Mr D had any contact with Mr Y, let alone that he received advice 
from him. Mr G never intended Mr D would get advice from anyone else and he was always intending to carry out business with him under the guise of FWM.
The fact commission fees were sent to Pi doesnt show it knew of, and had accepted 
responsibility for, the acts of Mr G. The receipt of the fees was a passive act. The 
receipt of the fees was also not causative of Mr Ds loss. Neither Pi nor Mr Y had any 
prior knowledge of the business that had been submitted by Mr G. 
If Mr Y had been involved in approving Mr Gs acts in giving advice or submitting the 
SIPP application, he would have been in breach of the appointed representative 
agreement between FWM and Pi. This agreement said that Mr Y could not sub-
contract duties to third parties without the pre-approval of Pi. 
The investigator ignored the underlying principles that whatever an appointed 
representative does must be lawful otherwise its automatically excluded from the 
principals responsibility. It cant be held liable for fraudulent acts of its appointed 
representative where theyre deliberately concealed from it.
The Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 10 Rule which the investigator had 
referred to doesnt apply  it only applies where theres been a direct offer financial 
promotion which wasnt the case here.
The recommendation of the SIPP and SVS portfolio was suitable for Mr Ds aims, 
objectives and risk profile. Any subsequent loss was the fault of SVS
The investigator assessed the risk profile of SVS with the benefit of hindsight rather 
than with reference to any material available in January 2018. Just because it failed 
not long after the investment was made, doesnt mean it must always have been a 
greater risk.
Its Mr G that should be held accountable.
The issue has therefore been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided - jurisdiction
Ive considered all the evidence thats been provided. Having done so, Im satisfied this 
complaint is one that the Financial Ombudsman Service has jurisdiction to consider.
To carry out regulated activities a business needs to be authorised (Section 19 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA)). FWM (and therefore Mr Y) wasnt directly 
authorised. Instead, it was an appointed representative of Pi. Pi is an authorised firm. Its 
authorised by the FCA to carry out a range of regulated activities including advising on 
investments and arranging deals in investments. We can therefore consider complaints 
about Pi. And this includes some complaints about its appointed representatives.
But this service cant look at all complaints. Before we can consider a complaint, we need to 
check, by reference to the DISP rules and the legislation from which those rules are derived, 
whether its one we have the power to look at.
DISP 2.3.1R says we can: 
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.Guidance for this rule at DISP 2.3.3G says that:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible, to the same extent as if he had expressly permitted it, for 
anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the business for which 
he has accepted responsibility.
And Section 39(3) FSMA says:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
The responsibility of a principal was considered by the judge in the case of Anderson v 
Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 (this case was the subject of an appeal, but the Court of 
Appeal issued a decision agreeing with the earlier decision). In the High Court, Mr Justice 
Jacobs said, at paragraph 33:
There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law, that indicates 
that the business for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by 
reference to the contract, but by reference to the authorisations granted to the 
principal which are to be found in the Financial Services register.
So, a principal isnt automatically responsible for the actions of its appointed representatives 
and its necessary to go beyond looking at the activities Pi was authorised to do. To decide 
whether Pi is responsible here, there are three issues I need to consider:
What are the specific acts Mr D has complained about?
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Did Pi accept responsibility for those acts?
What are the specific acts Mr D has complained about?
Mr D complains about the role of Mr Y in the advice he received to switch his pensions to a 
SIPP to invest through SVS. I think this includes any arrangements made for the switch and 
investment.
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Section 22 FSMA defines regulated activities as follows:
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried on by way of business and 
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) Investment includes any asset, right or interest.
(5) Specified means specified in an order made by the Treasury.
The relevant Order is the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001 (RAO). The rights under a personal pension scheme (which includes Mr Ds previous pensions and the SIPP he moved to) are specified as investments by a provision in 
Article 82 RAO. Advising on investments is a specified activity under Article 53 RAO. And 
making arrangements in relation to them is a specified activity under Article 25 RAO. 
Mr D says although he was initially advised by Mr G, he never received any paperwork 
signed by Mr G and the advice letter he received came from Mr Y. Pi says Mr Y didnt give 
advice and it was only Mr G that did.
Ive thought carefully about all of the evidence. Taking everything into account, Im satisfied 
its most likely Mr Y advised Mr D to switch his pensions and invest through SVS. There are 
several things that satisfy me this is the case
The recommendation letter dated 12 January 2018 clearly gave Mr D advice. 
We have seen a number of similar complaints where Pi say that Mr Y was not 
aware of what was happening. Yet, many of these complaints involve the SIPP 
operator copying in Mr Y to email correspondence for applications. There has 
been adequate explanation for this from Pi.
In this case, the SIPP operator sent Mr D an email on 30 January 2018 which 
read: 
Thank you for your application for a Simple Investment SIPPsubmitted through 
your Financial Adviser [Mr Y] at Pi Financial Limited. We are processing your 
application and we will liaise with your financial adviser if we need any additional 
documentation or information. We will write to you again once your application 
has been accepted and your pension has been established.
if you do have any questions, please do contact [Mr Y] at Pi Financial Limited.
 
On 8 March 2018, Mr Y was copied into an email from the SIPP provider to Mr D 
confirming that money from his previous pensions had been received. It went on 
to confirm that the initial 3.25% fees would be paid to his financial adviser 
shortly.
On 15 March 2018, Mr Y was copied into an email from the SIPP provider to SVS 
referring to him as Mr Ds financial adviser.
The SIPP application form named Mr Y as Mr Ds adviser  giving a FWM email 
address and Pi as the firm name. It was also selected that advice had been 
given.
Fees were paid to Pi. I cant see why Mr G would arrange for the fees to be paid 
in this way if he was doing everything without Mr Ys knowledge or involvement.
My finding, taking into account the above evidence, is that it is improbable that Mr Y would 
not have known that FWM was being used to give advice to Mr D. Im satisfied its most 
likely Mr Y was aware of the content of the advice letter and allowed it to be sent in his 
name, even if he didnt draft it himself. Otherwise, I would have expected to see some 
evidence of Mr Y querying why he was receiving correspondence about applications he had 
nothing to do with.
I note everything Pi has said about the validity of the suitability letter and the fact it wasnt 
signed by Mr Y. But from the evidence Ive summarised above, its clear he was involved in 
what was happening. And taking everything into account, I dont think theres enough to reasonably conclude the recommendation letter was created and sent without Mr Ys 
knowledge.
Pi says it was Mr G who advised Mr D  and Mr D accepts he received advice from Mr G. 
But just because Mr D received advice from someone else, that doesnt mean Mr Y didnt 
also give advice.
Im also satisfied that Mr Y carried out the regulated activity of making arrangements. On 30 
January 2018, the SIPP provider sent Mr Y an email that read:
Thank you for the application for the above client. We will write to the client to 
acknowledge the application and send you a copy.
And although I havent seen a copy of Mr Y submitting the application, Im satisfied he did. 
And the email referred to earlier from the SIPP provider to SVS dated 21 March 2018 went 
on to say Mr Y would:
where appropriate, either send us appropriate instructions for the investment of these 
funds to forward to you, or will organise for investment instructions to be submitted 
online via your website.
Mr Ds passport and bank statement also seem to have been certified by Mr Y on although I 
note that Pi disputes that. 
My conclusion therefore is that, on balance, Mr Y did give advice to Mr D about the SIPP 
and investments and made arrangements in relation to these so regulated activities took 
place.
Did Pi accept responsibility for those acts?
Which business was Mr Y acting for?
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Mr Y was acting as FWM when he advised Mr D 
and made arrangements. The only mention of any other business is that in the emails Mr Y 
was copied into (above), the email address that was used wasnt his FWM one and instead 
was an email address at a different business. But the fact the recommendation letter was 
sent in his capacity at FWM, the application documentation all referred to FWM, the SIPP 
operator referred to him as representing Pi, and fees were paid to Pi satisfy me that he was 
acting as FWM when he carried out the acts complained about here. Ive therefore gone on 
to consider whether Pi accepted responsibility under the agreement it had with FWM.
The agreement with FWM
The appointed representative agreement between Pi and FWM says:
The Company appoints the Appointed Representative to provide Services for the 
Company on the terms set out in this Agreement and the Appointed Representative 
accepts such terms, with effect from 15th January 2015.
Services was defined as:
any Regulated Activity which the Company is authorised to undertake from time to 
time notified by it to the Appointed Representative and also giving advice, making 
arrangements (or offering or agreeing to do either) in relation to term assurance, mortgages, tax planning, long term care products and any other product offered in 
the giving of financial advice pursuant to this Agreement.
And Regulated Activity was defined as:
Any activity requiring authorisation under The Act or by the FCA and Regulated 
Activities means more than one of them.
The agreement therefore is broad and envisages advice being given on, and arrangements 
made in relation to, investments. And Pi hasnt disputed that.
Instead, Pi said the underlying principles are that whatever an appointed representative does 
must be lawful otherwise its automatically excluded from the principals responsibility. In 
particular, it said it cant be held liable for fraudulent acts of its appointed representative 
where theyre deliberately concealed from it. But Im not persuaded Mr Y acted unlawfully or 
fraudulently in carrying out the regulated activities of advising Mr D and making 
arrangements in relation to his specified investments.
Any other breach of the agreement by Mr Y on behalf of FWM in this case would, in my view, 
be a breach of how certain activities are performed rather than what activities can be 
performed by an adviser. In the Anderson & Ors v Sense Network Ltd [2019] EWCA Civ 
1395 case, the Court of Appeal drew a distinction between these types of restriction. The 
breach of the latter kind of provision takes the appointed representatives conduct out of the 
principals ambit of responsibility under Section 39(3) FSMA, but breach of the former 
doesn't.
So, Im satisfied that Pi did accept responsibility for Mr Y advising Mr D to switch his 
pensions and invest through SVS.
My decision  jurisdiction
I dont agree with Pi that Mr D was never its client and therefore isnt an eligible customer. 
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied Pi is responsible under Section 39 FSMA for the 
acts being complained about and this is a complaint that we can look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Pi that COBS 10 isnt relevant in the circumstances here and I confirm I havent 
taken it into account when considering the merits of the complaint.
As Im satisfied its most likely Mr Y advised Mr D to move his pensions to a SIPP to invest 
through SVS, Ive considered whether that advice was suitable. The kind of things I would 
expect Mr Y to consider when assessing suitability are:
The likely cost of the proposed arrangement compared to the existing arrangements.
The level of funds involved.
Mr Ds knowledge and experience.At the time, Mr D earned around £39,000 and had little or no investment experience or 
knowledge. The pensions that were switched (around £70,000) were Mr Ds only pensions 
and he was in his 50s and so approaching retirement age with a low capacity for loss  even 
if he may have been thinking about accessing his pension in different ways. The 
recommendation letter of 12 January 2018 referred to him as a balanced risk investor 
according to the risk profile questionnaire he completed. Taking everything into account, Im 
satisfied Mr D was a balanced risk, inexperienced, investor and someone for whom 
traditional low-cost pension arrangements would have been suitable.
The new arrangement recommended to Mr D wasnt a low cost or traditional pension 
arrangement. The SIPP was stated to have a set-up fee of £100 and an annual fee of £199. 
But more significantly, the DFM service would also have had costs. Additionally, there were 
the adviser fees  an initial fee of 3.25%and an ongoing fee of 1%.
The letter of 19 January 2018 set out the reasons for recommending the SIPP as being that 
it would allow Mr D to access monies flexibly and have greater investment choice. It would 
also allow him to leave his entire fund to family in the event of your death and to take 
advantage of new laws that benefit pensions in the future.
But whilst the SIPP may have had some advantages, I havent seen anything that persuades 
me these benefits were needed by Mr D in his circumstances. Theres no evidence that Mr D 
 with his modest pension funds  needed access to a wider range of investments or that 
such funds wouldnt have been available with his previous pensions. And if there was a 
genuine desire by Mr D to consolidate his pensions into one fund, it seems likely thered 
have been cheaper options, such as a stakeholder pension  something that was dismissed 
in the recommendation letter without any real explanation.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied it ought to have been clear to Mr Y that there 
was no obvious justification for Mr D to move from his existing schemes and enter the 
arrangement he did. And this assessment is based on knowledge Mr Y ought to have had at 
the time  not what we now know about the subsequent failure of SVS.
In these circumstances Im satisfied advice to switch Mr Ds pensions to a SIPP to invest 
through SVS should never have been made as a recommendation. Im satisfied that if Mr Y 
hadnt given unsuitable advice, Mr D would have left his pensions as they were.
Even if Mr Y didnt advise Mr D, he carried out the regulated activity of making 
arrangements. In conducting this regulated activity, he had to act in line with the FCAs 
Principles for Businesses. Of particular relevance here is Principle 6 which says: 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
And COBS 2.1.1R says:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best
interests of its client (the clients best interests rule).
So, Im satisfied Mr Y would still have needed to consider whether it was in Mr Ds best 
interests to move his pensions to a SIPP for investment via a DFM. For the same reasons as 
set out above, Im not persuaded it was. And if it wasnt Mr Y that advised Mr D, then it 
seems likely he knew Mr D had been advised by an unregulated introducer and he should 
have taken this into account.Pi has commented on the fact that Mr G gave advice and it says it should be Mr G who is 
culpable. Pi has also argued that the losses Mr D has suffered is due to the mismanagement 
of SVS. 
It is true Mr G gave advice to Mr D when he should not have done so. And the FCA identified 
issues with SVS and its management of funds and assets. 
But this complaint is against Pi  not Mr G or SVS. The DISP rules set out that when an 
ombudsmans determination includes a money award, then that money award may be such 
amount as the ombudsman considers to be fair compensation for financial loss, whether or 
not a court would award compensation (DISP 3.7.2R Pi had its own distinct regulatory 
obligations to give suitable advice and otherwise treat Mr D fairly and act in his best 
interests.
So, whilst I take account of the potential contribution made by other parties to the losses 
suffered by Mr D, I think its fair and reasonable to make an award against Pi that requires it 
to compensate Mr D for the full measure of his loss. Thats because it seems clear to me 
from this and other complaints brought to our service that Mr Y, on behalf of FWM and Pi, 
was engaged in a process of transferring many clients pensions (including Mr D) to SIPPs 
and SVS without any proper regard to what was suitable for them or what was in their best 
interests. This was not a case where there was some minor, unfortunate failing on the part of 
Pi. But for Pis actions, Mr D would not be in the position he is now.
Im not asking Pi to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its failings. Im 
satisfied those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. That another party 
might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter and that fact shouldnt 
impact on Mr Ds right to compensation from Pi for the full amount of his loss.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr D 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I take the view that Mr D wouldnt have moved his pensions if everything had happened as it 
should have. Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr D's 
circumstances and objectives at the time.
In summary, Pi should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr D has suffered as a result of making the switches and investing 
through SVS.
2. Take ownership of the investments held in the SIPP if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Ds pension in respect of his pension losses. If 
that isnt possible, pay compensation for the loss to Mr D direct. In either case, the 
payment should take into account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Pay Mr Ds SIPP fees for the next five years, in the event hes now not able to close 
his SIPP.5. Pay compensation of £300 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr D.
6. Pay interest on the above if fair compensation isnt paid within 28 days of notification 
of acceptance by Mr D.
Ill explain how Pi should carry out the calculation set out above in further detail below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr D has suffered as a result of making the switches and 
investing through SVS
To do this, Pi should work out the likely value of Mr Ds pensions as at the date of my 
decision, had he left them where they were instead of switching to the SIPP.
Pi should ask Mr Ds former pension providers to calculate the current notional transfer 
values had he not switched his pensions. If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional 
valuation, then a benchmark of the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index 
should be used to calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of 
returns that could have been achieved if the pensions hadnt been switched.
The notional transfer values should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the 
date of my decision and this will show the loss Mr D has suffered.
Any additional sum that Mr D paid into the SIPP should be added to the notional transfer 
value calculation proportionately at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the SIPP should be deducted 
proportionately from the fair value calculations at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Pi totals all those payments and deducts 
that figure at the end.
2. Take ownership of the investments
Ideally, the assets in the SIPP  the investments  could be removed from the SIPP. Mr D 
would then be able to close the SIPP, if he wishes, and avoid paying further fees for the 
SIPP. For calculating compensation, Pi should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value for the investments. It should then pay the sum agreed plus any costs and 
take ownership of them.
If Pi is able to purchase the investments, then the price paid should be allowed for in the 
current transfer value (because itll have been paid into the SIPP to secure the investments). 
If Pi is unable, or if there are any difficulties in buying the investments, it should give them a 
nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. Pi may then ask Mr D to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP might receive from 
the investments once hes been compensated in full for his losses if Pi chooses to limit 
compensation to the award limit. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and 
charges on the amount Mr D may receive from the investments and any eventual sums hed 
be able to access from the SIPP. Pi will need to meet any costs in drawing up the
undertaking.
3. Pay compensation to Mr D for the loss hes suffered in (1)Since the loss Mr D has suffered is within his pension, its right that I try to restore the value 
of his pension provision if thats possible. So, if possible, the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into Mr Ds pension plan if it still exists. The compensation shouldnt be paid 
into the pension if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into 
the pension should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may 
mean the compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally 
allow for the income tax relief Mr D could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated 
using Mr Ds marginal rate of tax.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into Mr Ds pension, the compensation should be 
paid to Mr D direct. But had it been possible to pay the compensation into the pension, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation for the loss paid to Mr 
D should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ds marginal rate of tax in 
retirement. For example, if Mr D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the 
notional allowance would equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current 
basic rate of tax. However, if Mr D would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
notional allowance should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
4. SIPP fees
If Mr D is unable to close his SIPP once compensation has been paid, Pi should pay an 
amount into the SIPP equivalent to five years worth of the fees (based on the most recent 
years fees) that will be payable on the SIPP. I say this because Mr D wouldnt be in the 
SIPP but for the unsuitable advice. So, it wouldnt be fair for him to have to pay the fees to 
keep it open. And Im satisfied five years will allow sufficient time for things to be sorted out 
with the investments and the SIPP to be closed.
5. Trouble and upset
Pay Mr D £300 for the trouble and upset caused. Im satisfied Mr D has been caused 
significant upset by the events this complaint relates to, and the loss of a significant portion 
of his pension fund. I think that a payment of £300 is fair to compensate for that upset.
6. Pay interest
Pi should pay fair compensation as set out above within 28 days of being notified that Mr D 
has accepted my decision. If it doesnt, interest on the compensation due is to be paid from 
the date of the decision to the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple interest per year. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Mr D how much has been taken off. Pi should give Mr D a tax deduction 
certificate in respect of interest if Mr D asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above and Pi Financial Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr D in a clear, simple format. My decision is that Pi Financial Ltd should pay Mr D the 
amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 plus any interest.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Pi Financial Ltd pays Mr D the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Pi Financial Ltd doesnt have 
to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr D can accept my decision and go to court to 
ask for the balance. Mr D may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether 
to accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Abdul Hafez
Ombudsman