DRN-4146302
The complaint
Mr G complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Debenhams lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In September 2017 Mr G applied for a Debenhams card. NewDay approved the application 
and gave Mr G a card with an initial credit limit of £500. The credit limit was increased to 
£1500 in September 2019 and to £2750 in February 2020.
Mr G complained that NewDay had lent to him irresponsibly.
NewDay didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before 
lending to Mr G.
Mr G wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said there was no evidence to suggest 
that NewDay had treated Mr G unfairly.
Mr G didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Gs complaint.
The rules says that before agreeing to lend, NewDay had to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that Mr G was able to sustainably repay what was being lent 
to him. These affordability checks needed to be focussed on the borrowers circumstances 
and could take into account things like the amount of credit, the total sum repayable, the 
amount of repayments and the consumers individual circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender has to carry out. But lenders must have regard to the 
factors Ive mentioned above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Account opening
Mr G declared gross annual income of £42,500 when he applied for the card. He also 
declared unsecured debt of £100.
NewDay carried out a credit check and found no adverse information on Mr Gs credit file. 
There were no defaulted accounts. No county court judgments and no accounts in arrears.
Based on what Ive seen and considering the relatively low credit limit on the card and the 
low level of other unsecured debt, I think the checks carried out by NewDay were reasonable 
and proportionate. There was nothing in the information gathered by NewDay which 
wouldve given cause for concern or necessitated further checks.
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was fair. Looking at the information 
gathered, there was nothing to suggest that Mr G was struggling to repay his debts, or that 
he was overly reliant on credit. The checks showed that the lending was likely to be 
affordable for Mr G. Because of this, I think the lending decision was fair.
Ive also considered the credit limit increases in September 2019 and February 2020.
Before increasing the credit limit in 2019, NewDay says it looked at how Mr G had managed 
the account since it was opened, considering factors such as whether the credit limit had 
been exceeded, whether any payments had been missed and how much of the credit limit 
was being utilised. NewDay also carried out a credit search to see what other consumer 
credit commitments Mr G had, and whether any of these accounts were in default. NewDay 
says it found no evidence that Mr G had significantly increased his unsecured debt and no 
evid ce that he had missed any payments or defaulted on any accounts.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that NewDay carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks before increasing the credit limit in September 2019. Im also satisfied 
that the information gathered from these checks showed that the credit limit increase was 
affordable for Mr G. This is because the credit checks showed that Mr G had managed his 
account without any issues.
NewDay says it carried out the same checks before increasing the credit limit in February 
2020. The credit limit was increased from £1500 to £2750.
Because this was a significant increase in the amount of credit being made available to Mr 
G, I think it wouldve been proportionate for NewDay to carry out further checks to verify Mr 
Gs income and expenditure to make sure the increased lending was affordable.
Ive looked at Mr Gs bank statements for the three months leading up to the credit limit 
increase to see what reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve shown.
The bank statements show that Mr G had monthly income of around £2650 with essential 
monthly expenditure of around £1618, Mr Gs credit repayments were around £340 per 
month. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr G had enough monthly disposable 
income to afford the increased credit, even if the full credit facility of £2750 was utilised. Had 
NewDay carried out reasonable and proportionate checks I think they wouldve reached the 
conclusion that the lending was affordable.
I appreciate that Mr G had made two late payments on the account prior to the second credit 
limit increase. However, these late payments were remedied the following month. I dont 
think this alone wouldve been a good reason for NewDay not to increase the credit limit.
Mr G has said that his unsecured debt had increased to £6000 and that he was experiencing 
difficulties repaying what he owed to other lenders. Hes also said that his loans with other 
lenders have been found to be unaffordable by this service. 
Every complaint brought to this service is investigated on its own facts and merits. So, even 
if Mr G has had other complaints upheld, that doesnt mean the outcome will be the same 
here. This is because Mr Gs other complaints involve different products, different amounts 
and different time frames.
Based on the information Ive seen, theres nothing to suggest that Mr G was struggling to make repayments at the time of the second credit limit increase. Ive reviewed Mr Gs bank 
statements but theres nothing to indicate that the credit limit increase wasnt affordable for 
him. For these reasons, Im unable to say that NewDay has treated Mr G unfairly or lent to 
him irresponsibly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman