DRN-4342457
The complaint
Miss H has complained about Zurich Assurance Ltds medical underwriting process.
What happened
The facts are well known to the parties and not in dispute. In summary Miss H applied for life 
insurance with Zurich through a broker. She disclosed her medical history fully. Due to her 
history, diagnosis and treatment Zurich requested further medical information from her GP 
and applied an additional premium. Miss H was concerned about the way Zurich 
summarised her medical situation and the service she received during the underwriting 
process. She didnt disagree with the proposed premium increase.
Our investigator didnt find that Zurich had done anything wrong. Miss H appealed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint. No discourtesy is intended by 
this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take 
this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. Having done so, and although I recognise that Miss H will be disappointed by my 
decision, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
In response to Miss Hs request Zurich provided her with a full explanation as to how 
it had underwritten her policy. It explained that her application had been referred to 
its Chief Medical Officer and in consideration of her conditions and the term of cover 
it explained an additional rating was appropriate. I find this was fair.
I do accept that Miss H was concerned about Zurichs summary of her medical 
conditions. She felt it wasnt completely accurate from a medical perspective and that 
caused her worry. It serves no purpose for me to repeat the sensitive medical details 
here, but I have carefully read all the correspondence. However Zurich wasnt 
providing a medical diagnosis  it was using the information she had given to 
underwrite the cover Miss H was proposing for.
I cant share the underwriting guidelines that Zurich has provided because they are 
commercially sensitive. But Im satisfied that Zurich correctly applied a rating to Miss 
Hs premium and treated her in the same way it would have others with her history, 
based on the medical information provided. I appreciate that Miss H isnt complaining 
about the premium itself but at the underwriting process. Although this wasnt 
straightforward, I dont find that Zurich incorrectly underwrote Miss Hs policy.
Miss H has said that she would like Zurich to tell her how things will change as a 
result of her complaint, she has no confidence that it will change. I should point out 
that this Service doesnt regulate insurers or tell them how to operate. That is the role 
of the Financial Conduct Authority. Our statutory function is to resolve disputes. So 
even if I felt it would be appropriate for Zurich to change its processes (and I make no 
such finding) I wouldnt have the power to require Zurich to do so.
I do understand why Miss H complained. Her medical history is important, and she 
was very concerned that it had been misquoted or misinterpreted or was simply 
wrong  she didnt know which and went back to her GP surgery for further 
confirmation. But in all the circumstances I cant say that Zurich treated Miss H 
unfairly or unreasonably when underwriting her policy. For this reason, I dont uphold 
her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman