DRN-1511939
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy with the length of time it took Aviva Insurance Limited to accept her 
medical claim. 
What happened
Mrs A contacted Aviva in April 2019 after she received a potential diagnosis of 
endometriosis. Aviva explained that the policy would only cover this condition if it was 
confirmed, so Mrs A contacted it again in May 2019 once an MRI had confirmed she was 
suffering with endometriosis.
Aviva looked into the claim but wanted further information. It wanted to confirm if the 
endometriosis was a new condition or something Mrs A had been suffering from before she 
took out this cover. It explained that some of the symptoms in her medical history were 
linked to both another condition it was aware of and this new condition. So it requested 
further information from her treating doctor. This doctor said it wouldnt deal with this request 
and instead Aviva should contact Mrs As GP  who said that it had a full medical history, so 
didnt understand why further information was needed.
Aviva wrote to Mrs As GP with a list of questions at the end of May 2019. Aviva maintains 
that no response was received from the GP directly answering these questions. It didnt 
progress the claim while it waited for a response  as it considered it needed this information 
to determine if the endometriosis was covered. At the beginning of July 2019 Mrs A called 
Aviva to formally complain as well as explaining that she was very unwell and the wait time 
on the NHS for her condition was very long. Aviva looked into her concerns and determined 
that it could ask her for additional information and reach a decision based on her answers. It 
then agreed to cover her claim.
Mrs As complaint was about the delays in agreeing cover  and that due to these she was 
much more unwell than she wouldve been; that she had tried to complain several times but 
wasnt allowed to do so and was treated very poorly in the calls. She said she felt bullied and 
like Aviva was trying to get her to stop calling and hoped she would go away.
Aviva responded and said it wished to apologise for the time it had taken to confirm cover, 
but it didnt uphold the complaint. So Mrs A came to our service. Our investigator also didnt 
uphold her complaint. He said that it was reasonable for Aviva to request further information 
and considered it later agreeing cover based on a conversation with Mrs A a gesture, rather 
than something it was required to do. Mrs A didnt accept the assessment. She said that her 
treatment was delayed by Avivas actions and that it did have the information it needed to 
cover her. She also reiterated about Aviva blocking her from making a complaint. So the 
case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive reviewed the claim records Aviva has provided as well as Mrs As timeline, 
documentation and her testimony. I cant see from any of this that her GP did answer the 
questions Aviva asked. I appreciate Mrs A has said her GP considered the questions leading 
and nonsense, but I accept that Aviva did require this information to make its decision on 
cover. I acknowledge that it didnt need the MRI or endometriosis diagnosis confirmed by the 
GP, as this was included on other documentation it held. However the third question it was 
asking was for the GP/treating doctors medical opinion on a potential link to an existing 
condition. And none of the documentation Ive seen from her GP does directly answer this. 
So I dont consider it was unreasonable for Aviva to ask this question and wait for a 
response. I also say this because Mrs A medical history was sent to Aviva in February 2019, 
when she first contacted it  so before her diagnosis of endometriosis was confirmed.
Aviva went to Mrs As treating doctor, as a specialist, to get answers to its further questions. 
This isnt unreasonable, as they know more about her personally and her medical history, 
meaning their opinion could carry more weight for the insurer. The treating doctor wasnt 
willing to answer further questions and referred Aviva to Mrs As GP. Where appropriate, 
insurers look to get an opinion from the consumers doctor/specialist, rather than just asking 
the consumer questions and reaching its own conclusion. This is therefore why I dont 
consider it unreasonable Aviva went to the treating doctor and then GP before asking Mrs A 
questions. I appreciate in this case asking her directly did ultimately mean Aviva accepted 
she was covered, but that may not have been the case. And I accept that it was because it 
hadnt heard back from the GP that Aviva then moved to this step, rather than it couldve 
asked Mrs A first but unjustifiably didnt do this.
I understand Mrs A was told by her specialist in April 2019 that there was no connection 
between her conditions. But as weve previously discussed with her, the paperwork that was 
provided following this meeting didnt confirm that conclusion. And while I dont doubt what 
Mrs A has told us, as her insurer is taking on the costs of the treatment, it is entitled to ask 
for confirmation of there not being a connection from a medical professional, rather than 
accepting Mrs As testimony. So, as Ive then explained above, it contacted her treating 
doctor. It then looked for other avenues to see if she was covered when it hadnt heard back 
and Mrs A still needed treatment.
Mrs A has also raised concerns with us about not being able to complain sooner. Shes told 
us she was delayed from complaining by the medical team saying they would review her 
case  where they then just reached the same outcome. Ive been able to listen to a call 
between Mrs A and Aviva and agree she does discuss the complaints process. However she 
also does accept for the case to be re-reviewed. Aviva has acknowledged to us that Mrs As 
comments did meet the definition of a complaint and so it now accepts it shouldve 
proactively logged one  however it doesnt agree it prevented her from complaining. And I 
do agree with it, as I think at the time Mrs A did accept the further review rather than confirm 
she wanted to go down the complaints route. And I dont consider the advisor does bully her. 
In the call Ive been able to listen to I consider the advisor is understanding and empathetic 
to the situation Mrs A is in.
However I have also considered what impact an earlier complaint being logged wouldve 
had, as it seems Aviva couldve both logged the complaint proactively and had the medical 
team re-review the case. But as I dont consider Aviva was acting unfairly in how it 
processed Mrs As claim, I dont consider this wouldve changed what happened. I do fully 
appreciate Mrs As frustration and acknowledge she was left in the middle between her 
healthcare professionals and her insurer, whilst she was very unwell. But, as I consider 
Aviva correctly and reasonably followed its process, I dont think logging a complaint sooner 
wouldve changed what happened  I consider Mrs A wouldve just received the explanation 
she later did, at an earlier time. And then at the same, later point in time, Aviva wouldve 
moved on to attempt to confirm cover directly.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2020.
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman