DRN-2487626
The complaint
Miss Fs complaint is that the car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) 
with First Rand Bank Limited (trading as Motonovo Finance) wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
She wants the cost of the repairs she had carried out to be refunded and further repairs 
carried out at no cost to her. She also wants compensation for the time she has been without 
the car while it was in for repair and for the upset caused by the issues.
What happened
Miss F entered an HPA in September 2018 to acquire a used car. At the time of acquisition, 
the car was over 11 years old and had been driven around 70,000 miles. Miss F says that 
she experienced issues straight away noting problems with the central locking, airbag 
warning lights, and the car taking a long time to cool. She took the car to a local garage and 
it noted smoke coming from the exhaust. She says she raised her concerns, including her 
concern about the head gasket, with the dealer and it said to return the car. There were then 
issues about the collection of the car and the dealer offered to refund Miss F. However, 
Miss F said she wanted the car repaired. 
Miss F then raised a concern about the door not locking and it was agreed with the dealer 
that she would have the repair carried out at her local garage. The local garage then noted 
several other issues with the car and the dealer said the car should be returned for 
investigation. This happened on 17 September. Repairs were carried out and Miss F 
collected the car on 20 September. However, certain issues she had previously raised 
remained unresolved.
Miss F says she tried to contact the dealer on 1 November about several repairs she had 
needed to undertake but she didnt get a reply. She says she lost faith in the dealer and took 
the car to another garage for repair in January 2019. The car was at the garage for three 
months until she instructed the repair to the head gasket to take place. Miss F says that 
following these repairs the car hasnt experienced issues aside from the ongoing problem 
with the airbag light and seatbelt light coming on. She says the seatbelt light has been an 
issue since the outset, but she hadnt realised this was a fault until much later.
Motonovo noted the repairs that were undertaken in September and that issues remained 
following these. It said the dealer had said Miss F could return the car, but she hadnt 
accepted this. It said that Miss F contacted it in April 2019 by which time she had already 
taken the car to another garage. It explained that she shouldnt undertake any further repairs 
as these would be unauthorised. However, Miss F was already in the process of the head 
gasket repair.
Motonovo says that because of the unauthorised repair it cannot now investigate the issue to 
establish whether the problems were due to faults present or developing at the point of 
supply and so it cannot establish liability. Because of this it didnt uphold Miss Fs complaint.
Miss F didnt accept that she should be responsible for the costs of repairs and raised her 
complaint with this service.
Our investigator initially upheld this complaint. Motonovo didnt agree with his view and 
following the points raised he issued a second view not upholding the complaint. He said 
that because Miss F declined the offer to reject the car the onus was on her to have the 
repair carried out and that had Motonovo been able to consider the issue at that time it 
would have also offered rejection.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
At the time of acquisition Miss Fs car was over 11 years old and had been driven 
around 70,000 miles. Given this I thought it would be reasonable to expect a level of 
wear and tear. However, Miss F raised several issues within a few days of acquiring 
the car and I didnt think a reasonable person would expect so many issues so soon 
after acquisition. Having considered the number and range of issues I didnt think the 
car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Faults were acknowledged within the first 30 days and further issues raised at that 
time, and so rejection would have been my recommendation in this case. However, 
Miss F didnt want to return the car and instead wanted repairs. I said that repairs are 
a reasonable remedy to issues of quality but not when such repairs are either 
impossible or uneconomical. The dealer did have some initial repairs carried out, but 
these didnt resolve the issues. 
Under the CRA 2015, the business can be given a chance to carry out a repair and, if 
this is unsuccessful the consumer then has a final right to reject the goods. Again, I 
found that rejection would have been a reasonable remedy after the initial repairs 
didnt resolve all the issues.
Miss F tried to contact the dealer again in November about the ongoing issues and I 
understood why she lost faith in it carrying out the repairs. She had raised her 
concerns about the head gasket with the dealer previously, but other repairs were 
undertaken, and it seemed the head gasket was not investigated. Therefore, I didnt 
find that Miss F acted unreasonably by taking the car to another garage for repair. 
The head gasket was repaired at that time.
The repairs that Miss F had carried out werent authorised by Motonovo. Motonovo 
said it wasnt able to investigate whether the repairs were needed due to faults 
present at the point of supply and therefore establish liability. In this case the head 
gasket needed to be replaced and while this took place in March 2019, the car had 
been at the garage from January 2019 when the issue was confirmed and so the 
replacement was needed around four months after acquisition. Miss F had raised her 
concerns about the head gasket within the first few days. Therefore, on balance, I 
found it more likely than not that the issue with the head gasket was present or 
developing at the point of supply.
The cost of the head gasket repair was significant when considered against the 
amount Miss F paid for the car. So, I understood that Motonovo may have said 
Miss F could reject the car rather than agreeing to a repair. But Miss F had the 
repairs undertaken at her cost and while I appreciated she should have contacted 
Motonovo before this happened, as I accepted, on balance, the head gasket had a 
fault that was present or developing at the point of supply, I didnt find that she should 
be liable for the full cost. Miss F had previously tried to contact the dealer and didnt get a reply. She was 
aware of the issues and didnt want to drive the car without repair and risk further 
damage. Therefore, while she may not have gone about this the right way, I didnt 
find she acted unreasonably by taking the car for repair.
Had the car been rejected then the head gasket would still have needed to be 
repaired or a loss taken to reflect this. However, it is possible that had Motonovo 
been informed of the issue then it could have organised repairs at a lower cost. As 
the repair happened, and this appeared to have resolved the issue, I considered 
what was now the fair resolution for this complaint. 
I found it more likely than not that the repair was needed due to this issue being 
present or developing at the point of supply, so I didnt find that Miss F should be 
liable for the full cost of the repair. However, I also accepted that had Miss F 
contacted Motonovo the repair may not have been agreed or it could have mitigated 
this cost by taking alternative action. Therefore, I found it fair that a partial refund of 
75% of the total repair cost was provided to reflect the unique circumstances of this 
complaint. 
Miss F asked that she be refunded for the three months that her car was in the 
garage. I noted that she didnt have the use of the car for this period. But Miss F 
hadnt contacted Motonovo at this time, so Motonovo wasnt aware of the issue and 
had no opportunity to manage any repair process. I couldnt say what would have 
happened had Miss F contacted Motonovo but, on balance, I found it reasonable that 
one months rental should be refunded to reflect that there would have been some 
time without the car but to also acknowledge the actual time could have been 
reduced.
Miss F raised the issue of the fault lights on her car and said that the airbag light and 
seatbelt light were still coming on. As these were safety issues rather than items that 
I would expect to need replacing in a car of the age of Miss Fs and Miss F raised the 
issue of fault lights coming on shortly after she took delivery of the car, I found it 
reasonable that this was investigated at no cost to Miss F. I thought it fair that, 
following investigation if a fault was found that was believed to have been more likely 
than not present from the point of supply, and such fault shouldnt have been present 
in a car of Miss Fs age and mileage then it should be repaired at no cost to Miss F.
Miss F experienced several issues that she shouldnt have within days of acquiring 
the car. However, as the offer was made for the car to be returned I found that she 
could have mitigated the inconvenience she has been caused. She chose not to do 
this and while I accept that the cost of repairs should be covered, I didnt require 
Motonovo to pay for the distress or inconvenience these may have caused.
Miss F accepted my provisional decision. 
Motonovo provided a further response to my provisional decision. It said Motonovo hadnt 
been able to establish whether the issue of the head gasket was caused by wear and tear or 
a fault. It said that my provisional decision relied on information provided by another garage 
and it could have been possible that the issue wasnt present or developing at the point of 
supply. It also said that head gasket failure could happen for many reasons and by the time 
the repair took place, Miss F had driven the car over 5,000 miles. It said further investigation 
would be needed to ascertain its liability. It also noted that Miss Fs garage had diagnosed a 
gasket rocker cover fault  not a head gasket failure  and this was replaced by the dealer. And that repairs took place in November which could have caused the failure but Motonovo 
could not investigate as repairs had been completed.
Motonovo also said that in cases where the repair cost was potentially so high rejection 
would have been the only option available. It said Miss F chose to keep the car and had it 
been involved and offered the only option of rejection and Miss F still decided to keep the car 
it would have no liability for the repair. 
Motonovo didnt accept that just because repairs were needed it should be held liable for the 
cost of these. It said that even if the repair costs were 50% cheaper it would have been 
uneconomical, and rejection would have been the only option.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss F acquired a used car through an HPA with Motonovo. Under the regulations, 
specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), Motonovo can be held liable if the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into account 
factors such as the age and mileage of the car and what a reasonable person would expect 
taking into account all the circumstances.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I find it more likely than not that the repair to the head 
gasket was needed due to an issue with this being present or developing at the point of 
supply. I have taken into account Motonovos comments about it not having the opportunity 
to inspect the car to establish liability. But having looked at the other evidence provided, 
including that Miss F raised her concerns about the head gasket within the first month, the 
rocker gasket cover was replaced at that time and then further issues arose with the head 
gasket, I find it reasonable to accept that this issue was developing at the point of supply and 
then not fully resolved by the repairs.
Miss F was provided with the option to return the car, but this was just part of the 
conversation with the dealer about the issues. She asked for repairs and at the time, as she 
would not have known the extent of the issues, I do not find this unreasonable. The dealer 
agreed to undertake repairs. Unfortunately, these repairs didnt resolve the issues and so 
Miss F had to contact the dealer again. There were then communication issues with Miss F 
saying the dealer didnt reply to her in November 2019. Given this I can understand why she 
took the car to a local garage.
In January 2020, the issue with the head gasket was confirmed by Miss Fs local garage. I 
understand that Motonovo wasnt involved in this process but as Miss F had raised the issue 
with the dealer, it had been given an opportunity to repair but its repairs hadnt resolved the 
issue, and communication had stopped, I do not find Miss F acted unreasonably by taking 
further action. It seems that Miss F wasnt aware of her recourse to Motonovo at this time 
and was trying to resolve the issue with her car.
Given the above, I find it reasonable to accept the issue with the head gasket was 
developing at the point of supply and so it would be reasonable to accept that Motonovo had 
the responsibility to remedy this.
Miss F didnt contact Motonovo until the repairs were underway. I note the comments that 
Motonovo wouldnt have authorised repair and instead said that rejection was the only 
option. However, as this discussion hadnt happened I now have to consider what I think is a 
fair outcome.As I set out in my provisional decision, Miss F should have contacted Motonovo sooner, but 
this didnt happen, and I can understand why she spoke first with the dealer and then tried to 
resolve the issue with another garage when communication stopped. She paid for repairs 
that she shouldnt have been liable for and so I do not find it fair that she suffers the full cost 
of these. As I have explained I find the fairest solution is for Miss F to receive a partial refund 
of the cost of repair and having considered the unique circumstances of this complaint I find 
a 75% refund is reasonable.
Miss F also raised the issues with the warning lights within days of receiving the car. 
Therefore, I find there is cause for concern that there may be an issue that was present from 
the point of supply that should be addressed. Because of this, I find it reasonable that the 
warning lights are investigated at no cost to Miss F and if it is established that there was an 
underlying issue present from the point of supply that Motonovo has liability for then the cost 
of repair should be covered by Motonovo. 
I explained in my provisional decision my reasons for the refund of the monthly rental and 
why I do not find any other compensation is required.
Overall, as I set out in my provisional decision, I partially uphold this complaint. 
 
Putting things right
First Rand Bank Limited (trading as Motonovo Finance) should:
refund Miss F 75% of the cost of the repairs to the head gasket (total cost was 
£2,737.99) with 8% simple interest per year added from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
refund Miss F one monthly payment to reflect the car being unavailable due to the 
need for repair; and
arrange for the seatbelt and airbag issues to be inspected at a time and place 
convenient to Miss F and, if faults are found that were more likely than not present 
from the point of supply and shouldnt be present in a car of Miss Fs age and 
mileage, pay for any necessary repairs.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as 
Motonovo Finance) should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman