DRN-3694907
The complaint
Mr D complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with his loan application.
What happened
Mr D says he was told by Barclays that he potentially may be able to borrow up to £41,000. 
He says he applied for a loan of £11,900 in May 2022 which was approved but says he 
wanted to borrow an additional £2,900. Mr D says he applied for the additional borrowing in 
branch but wasnt told this was a new application that would be reflected on his credit file. He 
says the additional borrowing was unfairly refused and says he was treated badly by 
Barclays. Mr D would like compensation for what took place.
Barclays says it accepts it gave Mr D poor service about his complaint but says it reviewed 
the additional borrowing request and was entitled to reject it. It says it would have explained 
to Mr D that it would report the applications to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). It has 
also offered £100 for the poor service.
Mr D brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator didnt 
think there any evidence Barclays failed to tell Mr D that the further borrowing requests 
would appear on his credit file and thought the compensation offer appropriate.
Mr D doesnt accept that view and in summary says Barclays should provide evidence that 
shows beyond doubt he was told there would be an impact on his credit file. He says 
Barclays failed to contact him as agreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold the main part of Mr Ds 
complaint and think Barclays compensation offer appropriate for the service issue complaint. 
I make clear to Mr D that I have read all of the e-mail exchange he had with Barclays but will 
concentrate on what I consider the main parts of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ds frustration here that, having been told he may be eligible for borrowing of 
£41,000, he was only able to borrow £11,900. It is up to a lender to decide on the amount of 
borrowing it approves when it carries out affordability checks, but I cant see why Barclays 
offered such a high amount or what checks it had carried out before making that 
assessment. I hope Mr D appreciates that we are not Barclays regulator and so its not our 
role to direct it about such offers or calculations.
The main part of this complaint is the credit file information that has been reported to the 
CRAs and if Barclays told Mr D that there would be a report to them. Im satisfied that Mr D 
applied for the original loan and must have been aware that application would have been 
reported to the CRAs as well as being credit checked by Barclays. Im also satisfied that Mr 
D wanted to borrow more than the original £11,900. And that additional borrowing had to be 
credit checked. I appreciate Mr D says he didnt realise that it was a further credit 
application. But I cant see what else it could have been.
I think it likely on balance that Barclays would have told Mr D that the additional borrowing 
would be credit checked and a record appear on his credit file. But in any event, I think it 
ought to have been reasonably obvious to Mr D having applied for one loan that appeared 
on his credit file that applying for further borrowing, that would also appear on his credit file. I 
appreciate Mr D says Barclays should provide evidence that he was told about the credit 
searches, but I have to consider what I think on balance is more likely to have taken place. 
Having done so I have come to the conclusion that it more likely Mr D was told about the 
implications of the further applications and in any event ought to have known. I appreciate 
Mr D says he is not the expert on such matters, and I accept that. But I find that Mr D had 
just applied for borrowing and ought to have been aware any such application is subject to 
credit checks.
There is no question here that Barclays didnt handle parts of Mr Ds complaint as it should. I 
accept that is not the main part of the complaint and can see Barclays accepts it made a 
mistake. I dont think the failure to return telephone calls had a significant impact on Mr D 
and I have to separate the two complaint parts here. I think overall the compensation offer of 
£100 is fair and reasonable and reflects the impact of Barclays mistake. I dont think Mr D 
suffered any financial loss as a result of the service failings.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays was entitled and is obliged to carry out further affordability 
checks on Mr Ds request for additional borrowing. I find that it ought to have been clear that 
such checks would be carried out and that they would involve looking at Mr Ds credit file. I 
also think it was up to Barclays to decide if it offered further borrowing and that its obliged to 
accurately report information to the CRAs which in this case was the additional borrowing 
applications. Im satisfied Barclays reported accurate information to the CRAs and in those 
circumstances cant fairly order it to remove that information. I find this now brings an end to 
what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do to assist Mr D. If Mr D wishes to 
accept Barclays compensation offer, then he will need to contact it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman