DRN-3076424
The complaint
The estate of Mr B (The Estate) is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
used money from the current account of the late Mr B to clear a credit card account of which 
The Estate werent aware and which it feels may have been fraudulently opened.
What happened
The late Mr B passed away in October 2020, leaving a balance of approximately £3,600 in 
his current account. In December 2020, a representative of The Estate received 
approximately £2,600 into their bank account in relation to the money left in the current 
account of the late Mr B. 
The Estate contacted RBS to enquire about this and was told that the discrepancy was the 
result of RBS using the money available in the late Mr Bs current account to clear the 
outstanding balance on a credit card account that was also in the late Mr Bs name. The 
Estate wasnt happy about this, especially as it had no knowledge of any such credit account 
and suspected that it might have been opened fraudulently. So, it raised a complaint.
RBS looked at The Estates complaint. It confirmed that the credit account had been applied 
for and opened by the late Mr B, although it noted that it appeared that the address on the 
account hadnt been updated in line with the late Mr Bs other accounts. Because of this, 
RBS didnt uphold The Estates complaint.
The Estate wasnt satisfied with RBSs response, so it referred its complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that the credit account 
had been opened by the late Mr B, and they noted that a representative of The Estate had 
acknowledged previously that RBS had the right to use funds held in the late Mr Bs current 
account to repay any outstanding balances on any other of the late Mr Bs accounts. As 
such, our investigator also didnt uphold this complaint.
The Estate remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been upsetting for the representatives of The Estate to 
have received an amount of money corresponding to the balance of the late Mr Bs current 
account which was lower than the amount that they were expecting, and to have then 
discovered that this was because of an outstanding balance due on a credit account of 
which they werent previously aware.
However, Im satisfied that RBS were entitled to use the money available in the current 
account to clear the balance of the credit account, and one reason I say this is because a 
representative of The Estate signed RBSs Bereavement Services Agreement Form in 
November 2020 which includes a clause authorising RBS to use any credit balances 
available to repay any outstanding amounts owed by the deceased party.
Additionally, while I understand that The Estate hadnt been previously aware of this account 
and as such questioned its authenticity, Im also satisfied that RBS have been able to 
demonstrate that the account was applied for and opened by the late Mr B. And it follows 
from this that I dont feel that RBS have acted unfairly or unreasonably here in using funds 
from the late Mr Bs current account to repay the balance outstanding on the late Mr Bs 
credit account.
Im aware that The Estate feels that its received poor service from RBS and that it should 
have received clearer information about what had taken place from RBS. However, its 
evident from the complaint response letter issued by RBS that an explanation was provided 
to The Estate that the reason that the credit account was unknown to The Estate previously 
was likely as a result of the address on the credit account not being updated in line with the 
late Mr Bs other accounts.
Unfortunately, its difficult at this stage to be able to develop an understanding of why this 
particular account wasnt maintained at the same address as the late Mr Bs other accounts, 
and I dont feel that it can be definitively determined that RBS should bear the sole 
responsibility for the address on the credit account not being accurately maintained. 
All of which means that, while I empathise with the representatives of The Estate in regard to 
the nature of the events surrounding this complaint, I find it very difficult to conclude that 
RBS have acted unfairly or unreasonably in how theyve managed these events, and it 
follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing RBS to take any 
further action.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that The Estate was wanting, but I hope that its 
representatives will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision 
that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman