DRN-1805920
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) has declined her 
claim.
What happened
Mrs S has a disabling injuries protection plan, underwritten by AIG. She made a claim for 
fractures to her back as a result of a fall in 2016. 
AIG reviewed and declined the claim on the basis that Mrs S injuries werent caused by the 
fall. Mrs S disagreed and complained. She also asked her Rheumatologist to provide a letter 
and confirm that the injury was caused by the fall in 2016. 
AIG instructed an independent expert, a consultant orthopaedic traumatological and spinal 
surgeon, who found that the fall didnt cause the injuries. The consultant also reviewed the 
evidence from the Rheumatologist and explained why he still didnt think the injury was 
caused by the fall in 2016.
Mrs S remained unhappy so AIG said she could instruct and pay for her own expert with the 
same or higher level of qualifications as the independent expert and it would review the 
matter again. 
Mrs S referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint but 
didnt think AIG had done anything wrong as it had relied on an independent experts opinion 
when declining the claim and had given Mrs A the option of obtaining further medical 
evidence.
Mrs S disagreed and so the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think Mrs S complaint should be upheld and largely for the same 
reasons as explained by the investigator.
AIGs policy is designed to pay cash sums for accidental bodily injury which results in death, 
permanent disability or fractures. It says:
If an insured person has an accident on or after the effective date and suffers a bodily injury 
which solely and independently of any other cause and within 12 months of the date of the 
accident, causes death, permanent disability or single or multiple fractures, we will pay the 
amount shown in the Table of Benefits
It defines bodily injury as:Identifiable physical injury to an insured persons body which is caused directly and solely 
by an accident, is not intentionally self-inflicted and does not result from sickness or 
disease.
It defines accident as:
A sudden, unexpected and specific event, external to the body, which occurs at an 
identifiable time and place.
So this means the policy would pay out if Mrs S suffered an injury, or in her case, the 
fracture(s) to her back, caused by an accident. 
Mrs S says she suffered fractures to her back as a result of an accidental fall in the shower 
in 2016. AIG instructed an independent expert  a consultant orthopaedic traumatological 
and spinal surgeon. And he didnt think the fractures were caused by the fall but that they 
occurred due to natural causes before the accident. As a result, AIG declined the claim. 
Mrs S says she experiences severe pain in her lower back  and this pain has only been 
present since the fall.  
Mrs S did ask her Consultant Rheumatologist to provide some comments and these were 
passed to the independent expert. The independent expert said her that the consultant 
Rheumatologist didnt have access to all the medical records he had access to - including 
GP records which recorded fractures in 2015. And so the independent expert wasnt able to 
attribute the fractures to the fall in the shower. 
When Mrs S told AIG she wasnt happy with its decision to decline her claim, it said it would 
consider further medical evidence but this would have to be from someone with the same or 
higher qualifications as the independent expert. I havent seen any evidence that Mrs S has 
done this. But I think this is a fair and reasonable suggestion if Mrs S wishes to pursue her 
claim any further. 
As a result of the independent experts opinion, unfortunately for Mrs S, she doesnt meet 
the conditions of the policy which say the fractures must be caused by an accident. The 
expert didnt think the fall from 2016 caused the fractures - and for that reason Mrs S doesnt 
meet the terms of the policy. I therefore dont think AIG has done anything wrong.
I appreciate Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision but I hope Ive explained why I dont 
uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think Mrs S complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman