DRN-4346647
The complaint
Mr T complains that Zurich Insurance PLC declined his claim and avoided his van insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr T bought a van to convert it into a motorhome and took out an insurance policy to cover 
his van. A few months later Mr Ts van was stolen and so he claimed on his policy with 
Zurich. 
When reviewing the claim, Zurich became aware that Mr T wasnt working due to problems 
with his back. Because of this, Mr T was receiving income protection payments through 
another insurance policy. Zurich said Mr T had told them he was a self-employed plasterer 
when he bought the policy and it didnt think this was true. It said Mr T should have said he 
wasnt currently working and if he had, then it wouldnt have offered him a policy. Mr T didnt 
think this was fair and complained. 
Zurich reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said during the sales call, Mr T had 
someone translating for him and that he was clearly asked what his occupation was. To 
which Mr Ts representative said he was a self-employed plasterer. And because Mr T 
wasnt working at the time and receiving income protection payments, Zurich thought Mr T 
had made a misrepresentation when taking the policy out. Because of this, Zurich avoided 
the policy, declined his claim and refunded his premium. 
Mr T didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint here, he said hed been honest with 
his insurer when taking out the policy and during the claim. So didnt think it was fair his 
claim had been declined. Mr T said the loss of his van had caused him significant distress 
and inconvenience both financially and emotionally. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He found that 
Zurich hadnt asked whether Mr T was working but had instead asked what his occupation 
was. To which Mr T had given an accurate answer, because he is a self-employed plasterer. 
Our Investigator therefore didnt think Zurich had acted fairly and reasonably and 
recommended it reinstate Mr Ts policy and deal with the theft claim. He also recommended 
any records of the avoidance were removed and that Zurich pay Mr T £250 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
Mr T accepted our Investigators outcome. Zurich didnt. It said Mr T hadnt worked as a 
plasterer in around two and a half years when the policy was taken out and so didnt think 
hed answered the question about his occupation correctly. Zurich acknowledged though that 
Mr T had declared he had medical issues with his back, but didnt think this was enough to 
let it know he wasnt currently working. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Zurich thinks Mr T failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
bought the policy over the phone. It said this is because when he was asked what his 
occupation was, he said self-employed plasterer when in fact he wasnt working due to 
medical reasons.  
Ive listened to the sales call. In this call Mr T is represented by his daughter because he 
doesnt speak English. Mr Ts daughter is asked What is your fathers occupation?, Mr Ts 
daughter replies and says self-employed. The advisor then asks, what does he do? and 
this is answered as a plasterer. I understand Zurich doesnt think this was answered 
correctly as Mr T was receiving income protection payments, due to being unable to work 
because of medical reasons. However, I dont agree. Ill explain why. 
Mr T was asked what his occupation is, not whether he was working. And while I understand 
Mr T hadnt been able to work for over two years due to medical reasons, it doesnt change 
the fact his occupation is that of a self-employed plasterer. Im therefore not persuaded 
Zurich has shown Mr T made a misrepresentation when taking out the policy by answering 
the question about his occupation as he did. 
As Im not satisfied Zurich has shown Mr T made a misrepresentation when taking out the 
policy, it means Zurich has no remedies under the CIDRA. Im therefore not satisfied Zurich 
has acted fairly and reasonably in avoiding Mr Ts policy and declining his claim. Ive 
therefore looked at what Zurich needs to do to put this right. 
Zurich should reinstate Mr Ts policy and remove the avoidance from all internal and external 
databases. It should also now settle his claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions. However, as the policy is being re-instated Zurich is entitled to charge the 
premium it refunded, because this was only refunded due to Zurich avoiding the policy. 
Ive also noted that Mr T has said that not having his claim paid has caused him financial 
difficulties and also caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience. Our investigator 
recommended Zurich pay £250 to compensate Mr T for this and Im satisfied that is a fair 
and reasonable amount as Mr T accepted it. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Zurich Insurance PLC to:
1. Re-instate Mr Ts policy and settle his claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions
2. Remove all records of the avoidance from internal and external databases
3. Pay Mr T £250 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman