DRN-2530015
The complaint
Mr D complains about his insurer, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n 
(RSA). His complaint relates to the rejection of a claim for damage under his home 
insurance policy in respect of clothing from flooding to his property. 
What happened
In August 2020 there was a flood in Mr Ds home. This caused dampness to some of Mr Ds 
clothing. Other items were also affected by an unpleasant odour caused by the flood. Mr D 
contacted RSA and made a claim for the items under his contents insurance. RSA appointed 
field assessors and a specialist replacement company as part of the process to assess Mr 
Ds claim.
RSA also made a payment of £250 to Mr D, which they said was an emergency payment 
due to his clothes being damaged in the flood. As part of the assessment of his claim, Mr D 
was also asked for the individual cost of clothes included in his claim and for receipts or 
website links to verify the items and their cost. Mr D felt that this indicated that RSA would 
offer him a cash settlement for his damaged clothes. Mr D also felt that an email from the 
RSA claim handler confirmed his expectation. Based on this understanding Mr D said that 
he threw away the clothes. 
Mr Ds claim was then passed onto another claim handler. RSA offered to pay for the 
damaged clothes to be dry cleaned as they considered that they were repairable. Mr 
D was unhappy at this settlement offer as he had thought that RSA had offered to 
replace the damaged items or make a cash settlement for them. 
Mr D complained to RSA about the decision to offer dry cleaning of the clothes. RSA 
considered his complaint but in November 2020 decided not to uphold it. They 
confirmed their decision to offer dry cleaning of some of the damaged items. They 
also offered to either dry clean or to replace other items not included in the initial 
assessment of his claim. In recognition of a loss of expectation by Mr D and the time 
taken to consider his complaint RSA awarded Mr D £100 in compensation.
Mr D was unhappy at the outcome of his complaint and complained to this service.
Our investigator concluded that RSA had acted fairly in the way they had considered 
Mr Ds claim, and that RSA had not made a formal settlement offer or had offered a 
cash settlement. The investigator also thought that RSAs decision to settle the claim 
by paying for dry cleaning was fair and reasonable, and that their award of £100 
compensation for the length of time the claim was ongoing was sufficient.
Mr D disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether RSA has acted fairly towards Mr D. This includes looking 
at whether RSA has acted in line with his insurance policy and the relevant industry 
guidelines. The guidelines say that insurers must not unreasonably reject claims.
I appreciate that Mr D interpreted RSA asking for information on the damaged clothes as an 
indication that they were preparing a settlement offer. But verifying the cost of items is an 
approach an insurer will take when items have been damaged (or lost). If they decide to 
cover items, theyll have the information they need. Ive looked at the terms and conditions 
in Mr Ds policy on this aspect. They include a statement that:
please dont throw away any damaged items involved in your claim before weve 
had a chance to inspect them. 
Ive also not seen any evidence to show that RSA told Mr D to throw away his damaged 
clothes. There is also reference to a call at the same time between the initial claim handler 
and Mr D which states that (in respect of a separate item of his claim) he should not throw 
anything away. So, I dont think RSA did anything wrong.
I also note that the policy terms and conditions state that:
where damage can be economically repaired, we will pay the cost of repair.
Where the damage cannot be economically repaired and the damaged or lost item 
can be replaced, we will replace it. If a replacement is not available, we will replace it 
with an item of similar quality.
The RSA case file records an email from Mr D in early September that states that the 
clothes were stored in a wardrobe, and so had not been directly affected by the flood water. 
Mr D also confirmed this to our investigator. RSA acknowledged the damp smell of the 
clothes caused by the flood. But they feel this alone didnt mean the clothes couldnt be 
cleaned and restored. I agree that this is a reasonable view to take. I also note that Mr Ds 
brother took some of the items as he felt they were too good to throw away. Mr D confirmed 
this to our investigator. I think this also shows that they were still in good enough condition 
to be cleaned and restored to a reasonable standard.
Mr D also complained that in calls with the RSA claim handler it was indicated that a cash 
settlement would be made, and that there was no mention of dry cleaning being offered. 
RSA said that they have not been able to find recordings of the calls between Mr D and the 
initial claim handler. So, unfortunately, I cant conclude on what was said. But the notes in 
RSAs case file report indicate that the claim handler mentioned the possibility of dry 
cleaning to settle Mr Ds claim at the start of September. I also note from the RSA case file 
that the payment of £250 in August 2020 was described as an emergency payment to cover 
the cost of clothes. It was not described as a settlement.
For these reasons I dont believe RSA acted unreasonably. I think that their offer to dry clean 
the clothes affected, and to either dry clean or replace any other clothes not included in the 
initial assessment of Mr Ds claim, was fair. I also think that their offer of £100 compensation 
was fair, and that RSA do not need to do anything further.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint. If the compensation of 
£100 hasnt already been made RSA should make the payment without delay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman