DRN-2624456
The complaint
Mrs C complains that due to an administrative error by Phoenix Life Limited trading as Sun 
Life her Guaranteed over 50 Plan lapsed without her being told.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions of our investigator for these reasons:
- All parties agree that an error by Sun Life meant Mrs Cs address wasnt updated 
correctly in 2015. This meant that when the direct debits for her premium were 
returned unpaid in late 2019 and early 2020 Mrs C didnt receive the letters that she 
shouldve done. This meant Mrs C wasnt told the plan had lapsed.
- Because Sun Life agree an error was made which was the cause of the problem, Ive 
concentrated on whether I think the offer to put things right is fair. 
- Sun Life have offered to waive half of the outstanding premiums for the period 
between when the problem began in December 2019 and October 2020 when they 
issued their final response letter to the complaint.
- Had things gone as they should have, and Mrs C was made aware of the issue, she 
says she wouldve fixed the problem. Had this happened then she wouldve paid the 
whole amount of premiums for that period. So by offering to halve the amount owed 
Im satisfied Sun Life is making a fair offer. This acknowledges the mistake that was 
made. 
- Mrs C has asked that Sun Life refund all of the premiums shes paid. I dont think this 
would be a fair resolution the complaint as the plan was on risk and Mrs C was 
covered by the policy for the time it was active.
- Mrs C has said that she doesnt trust Sun Life anymore, and I can understand why 
she feels this way, but that doesnt mean the offer made isnt fair.
- Having considered everything carefully Im satisfied the offer put forward by Sun life 
is a fair resolution to the complaint. 
Putting things right
To put things right Phoenix Life Limited trading as Sun Life should waive half the amount of 
outstanding premiums from December 2019 to October 2020, which amounts to £220. They 
should then, upon receipt of the other half of the outstanding premiums for that period from 
Mrs C, reinstate the plan. This is subject to Mrs C bringing the plan up date with premiums 
from October 2020 until now. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint. Phoenix 
Life Limited trading as Sun Life have made an offer, as described above, to settle the 
complaint which I think is fair in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman