DRN-2254342
The complaint
Mr F has complained about Unum Ltds decision to decline his claim under his employers 
group income protection insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr F was a member of his employers group income protection scheme, held with Unum. 
The policy, after a deferred period of 26 weeks, would pay benefit in the event that Mr F was 
unable to perform his occupation due to illness or injury.
In April 2018, Mr F stopped working due to stress. He remained off work and made a claim 
under the policy.
Unum declined the claim. It considered the medical evidence didnt support that Mr F was 
suffering a medical condition of such severity that it prevented him from working.
Mr F was unhappy at Unums decision. In January 2019, he referred his complaint to us.
In February 2019, Mr F left his employment.
In January 2020, the ombudsman issued a final decision upholding the complaint. While she 
considered that Mr F hadnt shown he was suffering from an incapacitating illness at the time 
he stopped working in April 2018, she considered that his mental health declined while he 
was off work and noted that in October 2018 he was diagnosed with depression. She 
considered that Unum should reassess his claim as if the deferred period started from this 
point.
Mr F accepted the ombudsmans final decision.
In June 2020, having reassessed the claim as if Mr F had first become absent in 
October 2018, Unum again declined the claim. It considered that the medical evidence didnt 
support that Mr F was unable to work due to a medical condition even after October 2018 
but that, in any case, he had left his employment before the end of the new deferred period 
meaning that no benefit was payable.
Mr F complained to Unum but it wouldnt change its decision. Mr F therefore complained to 
us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Unum had acted fairly.
Mr F didnt accept the investigators findings. He considered the evidence showed hed met 
the policys definition of incapacity from October 2018. He hadnt understood the need to be 
absent for a further 26 weeks from this point to be able to receive benefit and questioned 
why Unum had even bothered to request medical evidence if this were the case.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy will pay benefit if Mr F is unable to perform his occupation due to illness or injury. 
However, it is subject to a deferred period of 26 weeks, meaning that no benefit is payable 
during this time. It is only if Mr Fs incapacity lasts beyond this period that benefit payments 
will begin.
The ombudsmans earlier decision said that Unum should reassess the claim as if his 
absence, and hence the deferred period, started in October 2018. This decision was final 
and I cannot change it. Mr F accepted the decision. However, the 26 week deferred period 
meant that Mr F would not become eligible for benefit until April 2019. Mr F left his 
employment in February 2019 at which point his cover under the policy ended. This meant 
he could not be eligible for benefit using the new start date for the deferred period.
Unum additionally considered that the medical evidence did not support that Mr F was 
incapacitated from October 2018 until he left his employment. However, as Mr F has pointed 
out, this is irrelevant in any case because even if I was satisfied that Mr F had met the 
policys definition of incapacity, he would still not be entitled to benefit because he did not 
remain under cover for the duration of the deferred period. I therefore see no need to 
express an opinion on the medical evidence.
Mr F says he was unaware of the need to serve a 26 week deferred period. However, it was 
noted in the ombudsmans decision on the earlier complaint, even if Mr F hadnt understood 
what this meant.
After taking everything into account, I cant reasonably conclude that Unum has acted 
unfairly by declining the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman