DRN-3520629
The complaint
Mr R complains that Nelson Insurance Company Limited declined a claim he made on his 
commercial vehicle insurance policy after his car was stolen.
Reference to Nelson includes its agents.
What happened
Mr R holds a commercial vehicle insurance policy for his taxi with Nelson. One day, when he 
went to pick up a client, his taxi was stolen.
Nelson declined his claim. It said Mr R hadnt taken all reasonable precautions to safeguard 
his vehicle from loss. It said this because it said the key report indicated the engine was still 
running, and the doors and windows were left open.
Mr R wasnt happy with this and complained. He said the engine wasnt running, and the 
doors and windows werent open, but the boot was. He said he was standing right at the 
back of the taxi by the boot when the thief drove away in his car.
Nelson didnt change its stance, so, Mr R brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators recommended it be upheld. They didnt think Nelson had shown 
Mr R had failed to take reasonable care. So, they recommended it reassess his claim in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Nelson disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Rs policy with Nelson contains a term requiring him to take all reasonable 
precautions to safeguard your vehicle from loss or damage. It is this term Nelson 
have used to decline his claim, and the complaint brought to us is based on its 
decline of the claim by relying on said term.
In order to rely on this term, Nelson need to show Mr R was aware of the risk, and 
then failed to take reasonable steps to avoid it. And Im not satisfied its done that.
Its not conclusive whether the engine was on or off from the key report. It says A 
relay device could have been used to activate the ignition, using the method 
described above; or if the vehicle engine was running, an individual could simply get 
in the vehicle and drive it away 
Nor is it conclusive what doors remained open. But the key report indicates it is more 
likely than not that the window and door was left open, not the boot as Mr R has 
described as that was the last Bluetooth update from the key.
However, it is accepted by all parties that Mr R was standing right at the back of his 
car at the point it was stolen. So, close that I think it could be reasonably said he was 
in attendance of the vehicle.
So, on that basis I dont think its fair Nelson rely on the clause stated above as its 
not shown Mr R failed to take reasonable steps to safeguard the vehicle from 
damage. Its not shown on the balance of probabilities that the engine was left on, 
only that it could have been. And in any case, I consider being so close to the vehicle 
that it can be considered attended, is a reasonable measure to protect against theft. 
Although unfortunately, in this instance, it didnt work, and the car was still stolen.
Nelson should reassess the claim based on the remaining terms and not decline this 
claim by relying on the clause stated above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things 
right I require Nelson Insurance Company Ltd to:
Reassess Mr Rs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman