DRN-3448657
The complaint
Miss P, who is represented by a third party, says Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail), 
trading as Express Gifts, irresponsibly lent to her. She has requested that the interest and 
late payment charges she paid on her account be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a catalogue shopping account provided by Studio Retail to Miss P. 
The account was opened in April 2018 with Miss P being given an initial credit limit of £100. 
This limit was increased to £200 in July 2018. 
Miss P says shes unhappy that Studio Retail allowed her to open an account and as her 
credit rating was poor and she was experiencing financial difficulty.
Based on the limited information he had about Miss Ps financial circumstances, our 
adjudicator didnt think Studio Retail had acted unfairly in the way it managed the 
account. He also thought that although Studio Retail hadnt necessarily carried out 
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before approving the credit limit 
increase, had it done so it would likely still have concluded that the limit increase was 
affordable. 
As Miss P didnt agree her complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Studio Retail will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Studio Retail says it acted as a responsible lender when opening Miss Ps account and 
increasing her credit limits. Our adjudicator has set out in some detail why he didnt think 
Studio Retail lent to Miss P irresponsibly. 
In making my decision Ive looked at the overall pattern of Studio Retails lending history with 
Miss P, so as to see if there was a point at which Studio Retail should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean 
Studio Retail should have realised that it shouldnt have further increased Miss Ps credit 
limits.
Having reviewed the complaint myself, including the account history, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator and so I dont consider that Miss P lost out due to Studio Retails 
actions in relation to her account. I will explain why. 
When Miss P opened her account in April 2018, Studio Retail says there were no signs of 
financial difficulties based on the checks it did. Having reviewed the checks, and taking into 
account the relatively low opening credit limit of £100 she was given, I agree that there isnt 
enough to suggest it would have been unreasonable for Studio Retail to have approved the 
account at this point. It doesnt look as if Studio Retail asked her about or to steps to verify 
her income. Had it done this it may have helped it begin to build a better picture of her 
financial circumstances. 
Miss P has only been able to give us limited information about her financial situation at the 
time. So we dont know what proportionate checks carried out by Studio Retail would have 
shown, especially about Miss Ps income and regular and committed expenditure.
When Studio Retail gave Miss P an increased credit limit in July 2018, I agree with our 
adjudicator that it should have requested details of Miss Ps income, regular expenditure 
and any existing debt owing elsewhere. Overall, however, our adjudicator thought there 
wasnt enough to show that Miss P was experiencing financial difficulty to the extent that 
Studio Retail shouldnt have increased her credit limit at this time. Miss P appears to have 
been meeting all regular, her monthly repayments. I also see she was making minimum 
payments and incurring some interest but she was keeping well within her credit limit. I 
therefore agree that there isnt enough information or evidence for me to find that had 
Studio Retail carried out additional proportionate checks, it would have found the credit limit 
increase to be unsustainable. 
It follows that, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, I dont think Studio Retails 
actions, first in opening the account and then in increasing Miss Ps credit, is likely to 
have caused Miss P to lose out. And Im not persuaded that further enquiries into 
Miss Ps circumstances would have led Studio Retail to conclude that it should have 
taken a course of action that was significantly different to what it did. 
So, although I dont think Studio Retails actions were necessarily appropriate in all 
respects, I dont make any award as I dont think Miss P was caused any loss as a result.
Ive seen that Miss P still had an outstanding balance in April 2021. I dont know to what 
extent that situation has since improved but I would ask that Studio Retail take the 
necessary steps to explore available options with her if she is continuing to experiencing 
difficulties in meeting any outstanding repayments. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman