DRN-3274852
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the way Equifax Limited are showing his electoral roll data on 
his online dashboard.
What happened
In mid-2021, Mr H complained to Equifax. Hed been living at his address and registered on 
the electoral roll for more than a year. But while his online accounts dashboard showed him 
as being registered on the electoral roll from March 2020, it also had a field called years on 
electoral roll at current address which said 0.
Equifax explained that the dashboard calculated that number based on entire calendar years 
 so it would only update in January 2022 once hed been on the register for a full January to 
January year. They explained that only Mr H could see that dashboard, and lenders instead 
saw the exact dates hed been on the register for, so the number wouldnt affect him.
Mr H came to our service. He thought the dashboard number had affected his credit score 
and caused him to get charged higher interest on a loan. He said he wanted Equifax to 
correct the error, and that he wanted compensation for their negligence.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that Equifax were reporting Mr Hs electoral roll data correctly to lenders, and that 
only Mr H could see the dashboard with the 0 on it. They appreciated that the 0 could be 
confusing, but reassured him that the years on electoral roll at current address field had not 
financially affected him, so they didnt award compensation. They also explained that lenders 
used their own scoring systems, and the credit score Mr H saw was also just for him.
Mr H didnt agree. He felt sure that the years on electoral roll at current address field had 
affected his credit score and caused him losses. He asked for his case to be reviewed 
afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I can completely understand why Mr H finds the dashboard entry confusing. I agree 
with him that displaying the year based on January-to-January calendar years  as opposed 
to the actual number of years hes been registered on the roll  is odd and not intuitive.
The thing is that only Mr H can see that years on electoral roll at current address field. The 
dashboard is just for him. Lenders dont see it.
I need to emphasise this point: lenders dont see that field. They see the raw data on Mr Hs 
credit file, which correctly shows him as being registered on the electoral roll from March 
2020. They do not see the years on electoral roll at current address field with the 0 on it.
Similarly, the credit score that Mr H sees is just for him. Its just an illustration of how the 
credit reference agency reckons lenders might look at his credit file. But its not for lenders to 
see, and its not a guarantee of what any given company will think. Its just a general 
indication, which helps customers get a simple overview of how their credit file might be 
looked at. Lenders have their own criteria for how they assess credit files.
So Mr Hs loan company did not see his online dashboard with the years on electoral roll at 
current address field. They also did not see his credit score. Instead, they wouldve seen the 
raw data showing that he was registered on the electoral roll since March 2020, which is 
correct. The years on electoral roll at current address field did not affect his loan and it 
wont cause him any financial loss or harm. And the underlying electoral roll data on his 
credit file is correct. So I hope I can reassure Mr H that he has nothing to worry about there.
It follows that as this issue has not caused Mr H a substantial loss, I dont make any award.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman