DRN-3169654
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds service and 
increase in premiums for her pet insurance policy. My references to Red Sands include its 
agents.
What happened
In 2016 Mrs M took out a lifetime policy pet insurance policy for her dog, the insurer is 
Red Sands. Mrs M initially complained that:
She wasn't sent any information about the policy before it renewed automatically in 
May 2020. Red Sands said it emailed her information before the renewal but she 
hadnt received anything and hadnt opted in for email correspondence.
From May 2019 to May 2020 the policy premium increased by 14.2%, from £241.56 
to £275.88. Red Sands told her the increase was due to increased vet costs but she 
didnt think vet costs had increased that much and she said shed only made one 
claim on the policy. Red Sands hadnt increased the annual condition limit since she 
took out the policy.
While we were investigating the above complaint Mrs M complained to Red Sands that 
the May 2021 renewal premium had increased since 2020 by 37.5%, from £275.88 to 
£379.44. She said she hadnt made any claims in that period to cause such an increase.
Red Sands said:
It emailed the policy renewal documents to Mrs M a month before the 2020 
renewal and hadnt received an undelivered message in response. Mrs Ms email 
address was added to the policy and the communication preference amended to 
email in a call with Mrs M on 5 April 2019 when it also discussed the 2019 
renewal premium. It changed back Mrs Ms communication preference to post in 
December 2020 when she complained about the May 2020 premium increase.
It could use its commercial judgement to decide the premium price and policy 
terms. The increase in premiums was due to several factors such as increasing 
vet fees, high increase in the frequency of claims received geographically, age, 
sex and breed of the pet, the risk of recurring conditions and claims. It confirmed 
the premiums offered at the 2020 and 2021 renewals were correct. It had already 
applied a discretionary discount of 5% for the 2018 renewal and 10% for the 2019 
renewal when Mrs M queried the premium increase and wasnt able to discount 
the 2010 or 2021 renewal premiums. 
The policy terms said it could increase the premiums on renewal. It no longer had 
a recording of the policy sale call from 2016 but sent its sales script at the time.
Our investigator considered both complaints together. He said Red Sands did email Mrs M 
before the 2020 policy renewal. He thought if Mrs M had seen the email she would have 
asked for a premium discount again but also thought she would have kept the policy even if 
Red Sands had refused discount as an alternative policy would have been unlikely to cover 
her dogs two conditions that shed claimed for in June and December 2017. He explained 
were not in a position to tell insurers what to charge for a policy.
Mrs M disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said:
When she took out the policy she opted for paper copies of policy documents and 
renewals. Red Sands hadnt asked for her consent to change her preference to 
receive the information by email and hadnt warned her it had done so. She wanted 
us to ask Red Sands for evidence that it had asked for her consent and told her it 
was changing to email renewal.
As a consequence of the email renewal the premium increases for 2019 and 2020 
had been very high. Her dog was only 5 at the 2021 policy renewal with no serious 
health problems and shed only made two very small claims in 2017. She said 
Red Sands couldnt justify the increases in the last two years which she thought were 
out of proportion with inflation, her dogs medical history and age.
Before I made my decision we asked Red Sands if it had the evidence Mrs M requested. It 
said the call recording of 5 April 2019 wasnt available but it provided its notes of the call.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M but I dont uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
Policy renewal documents
Ive seen evidence that Red Sands sent Mrs M the 2020 policy renewal documents by email 
in April 2020, about a month before renewal. The email address it sent the information to is 
the same we have for Mrs M. Red Sands says it didnt receive an undelivered message. 
I think it could reasonably believe Mrs M received its email and renewal documents.
Mrs M says she didnt receive the emailed information and its possible it went into her spam. 
But her main point about this issue is she says she never consented to Red Sands changing 
her contact preference to email or told her about the change. Red Sands doesnt have the 
call recording for the 5 April 2019 call where it understood the discussion took place. Its note 
of the call on the issue say email address also added, change communication preference to 
email. From that note I think its more likely than not Red Sands and Mrs M spoke about her 
email address but its not clear whether Red Sands got Mrs Ms consent before changing her 
contact preference to email or that it told her about the change. 
But even if Red Sands didnt get Mrs Ms consent and/or tell her it had changed her contact 
preference I dont think it disadvantaged her by sending the renewal documents to her by 
email in April 2020. I say that because although I think if Mrs M had seen the renewal email 
she would have contacted Red Sands to try to get a premium discount again from what 
Red Sands said I dont think it would have agreed to another discount. And even if 
Red Sands hadnt agreed a discount I think its more likely than not that Mrs M would have 
continued with the policy as she wanted lifetime cover for her dog and by that date her dog 
already had claimed for medical conditions which would likely have led to some medical condition exclusions if shed changed insurer. 
Mrs M says the subsequent increase in her premiums was a consequence of her not seeing 
the renewal email in 2020. But I dont think thats correct. Red Sands wouldnt have agreed 
another discount in 2020 so the premium would have been the same even if the renewal 
document has been posted to Mrs M and shed contacted Red Sands to discuss the 
premium.
It would have been frustrating for Mrs M to realise the 2020 policy renewal documents had 
been emailed to her if she thought they were going to be posted to her as before. But for the 
reasons above I dont think it made any difference to the price of her policy.
Premium increase
Businesses are generally entitled to decide how much to charge for the insurance cover they 
provide and the terms of cover, including the annual condition limit. Its not my role to tell an 
insurer how much it should charge customers or what its policy limits should be. The cost of 
insuring a pet will generally increase as the pet gets older. Red Sands detailed the type of 
factors it takes into account in deciding the premium. It confirmed the level of premium 
offered at the 2020 and 2021 renewals were correct. I havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Red Sands treated Mrs M differently to how they would have treated another policyholder in 
the same position. So I dont think Red Sands treated her unfairly in how much she was 
charged for the policy in 2020 or 2021. I understand Mrs M thinks the policy shouldnt be so 
expensive but its not for me to say Red Sands should charge less, or that it should increase 
the annual condition limit.
Red Sands says the policy is clear that premiums can change. The policy says:
When inviting renewal of this policy we may, at our sole discretion (and for a valid 
reason as we deem appropriate, taking into consideration, but not limited to your 
pets age, medical and/or claims history) change the cover, benefits, premium, terms 
and/or conditions.
Mrs M would have needed to read through a long policy document to find this information 
and I think Red Sands should have drawn it to her attention. Even if she had read it, I dont 
think it goes far enough to explain the possible long-term costs. Ive looked at the policy 
sales script Red Sands used when it sold the poilcy to Mrs M in 2016 and I dont think she 
given enough information about the likely long-term costs increase. So I dont think Mrs M 
had all the information she needed to make an informed decision about whether to buy the 
policy.
However, I dont think Mrs M was disadvantaged by that lack of information as I think its 
more likely than not she would have still taken out the lifetime pet insurance. Mrs M wanted 
some sort of pet insurance, and it seems she wanted the more comprehensive cover 
provided by the lifetime policy which is why she bought that type of policy. I think its unlikely 
she would have been put off the policy completely if shed been better information about the 
long-term costs. And other insurers lifetime policies also generally have premium price 
increases.
Also Mrs M has made previous complaints about the price of her policy to Red Sands. 
Although she was able to get a discount on two occasions she continued with the policy 
knowing that the price was likely to increase. I appreciate the price increase for the 2020 and 
2021 renewals was higher than previously but its not for me to say Red Sands should 
charge less and Ive seen no evidence to suggest Red Sands treated Mrs M differently to 
how they would have treated another policyholder in the same position.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman