DRN-4158824
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money they lost when they 
were the victims of a scam.
What happened
In late 2022, Mr and Mrs F were buying a car. They had agreed a purchase and paid a 
deposit and the first part of the outstanding balance. But shortly before they were going to 
pay the final part of the balance, they received an email which appeared to be from the 
dealership they were buying the car from, asking them to make the final payment to different 
bank details.
Mr and Mrs F replied to the email to check the new bank details and then tried to make the 
final payment, but it was blocked by Lloyds. Lloyds then spoke to Mr and Mrs F about the 
payment several times over the phone and discussed potential scams, before Mr and Mrs F 
ultimately went ahead with the payment. Unfortunately, we now know the emails with the 
new bank details had come from a scammer and the dealership didnt receive the final 
payment.
Once the scam was discovered, Mr and Mrs F reported the payment to Lloyds and asked it 
to refund the money they had lost. Lloyds investigated but said it felt it had done all it could 
to warn Mr and Mrs F about potential scams. It felt Mr and Mrs F had ignored warnings and 
should have had concerns about the payment, so it didnt agree to refund it. Mr and Mrs F 
werent satisfied with Lloyds response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They thought Mr and Mrs F should have 
had concerns about what was happening and hadnt done enough to protect themselves. 
They also thought Lloyds had done enough to warn Mr and Mrs F about the possibility of 
scams. So they didnt think Lloyds should have to refund the money they had lost. Mr and 
Mrs F disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim 
of authorised push payment scams, like the one Mr and Mrs F fell victim to, in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that one of those 
exceptions to reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Mr and Mrs F ignore an effective warning in relation to the payment?
The CRM code says that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand what 
actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. And it 
says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, clear, impactful, 
timely and specific.
Lloyds has sent us a copy of the warning it says Mr and Mrs F were shown when they tried 
to make the payment using their online banking, which said:
[customer name], before you pay:
Are you sure this bill is genuine?
Fraudsters will pretend to be a loved one, or a company youve used.
Theyll ask you to pay into an account theyve set up to scam you.
Always talk directly to the company, or your loved one first. Make sure its really 
them.
Use a phone number you trust, not one from a text, email or invoice.
Find out how to stay safe from scam on our Fraud Hub
Ive also listened to recordings of the calls Mr and Mrs F had with Lloyds after it blocked the 
payment. And Ive considered these together with the warning message they were shown 
online when deciding whether the warning they were given was effective here.
The warning message said fraudsters will pretend to be a company youve used, which was 
relevant to Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances. And it said to talk to the company directly, using a 
phone number you trust that hasnt come from an email or invoice, and so explained what 
they could do to address the risk.
In the calls, Lloyds explains in more detail what this kind of email intercept scam can look 
like  that scammers will send emails pretending to be a company customers are dealing 
with and changing the bank details a payment is to be made to. It explains emails are not 
particularly secure and can be hacked, so the emails can seem like they are coming from the 
genuine company but are actually coming from scammers. And it says this kind of scam is 
relatively common, the situation Mr and Mrs F describe is exactly how these scams work, 
and that it has concerns that they are the victims of a scam.Lloyds also explains that, in order to make sure they are not the victims of a scam, Mr and 
Mrs F should call the dealership on a phone number they didnt get from the emails and 
speak to someone to confirm the bank details they should be making the payment to. Lloyds 
stops the payment and asks Mr and Mrs F to come back once they have confirmed the bank 
details over the phone, and explains that once the payment is made its very unlikely they 
would be able to get the money back.
So, taken as a whole, I think the warning Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs F was clear and 
understandable in the language it used. I think it was specific about what the scam could 
look and feel like and that these circumstances matched this kind of scam. It was delivered 
to Mr and Mrs F at the time they were trying to make the payments and it was impactful, by 
requiring them to take further steps before making the payment and explaining the 
consequences of making a payment to a scammer. And so I think the warning Lloyds gave 
Mr and Mrs F was effective in these circumstances. 
After being given the warning, Mr and Mrs F didnt follow the advice Lloyds gave to call the 
dealership and speak to someone to confirm the bank details for the payment. Instead, Mr 
and Mrs F appear to have called the dealership and spoken to the general switchboard, but 
not spoken to anyone directly involved in the sale and not confirmed the bank details for the 
payment.
I think Lloyds warning was sufficiently clear that the risk Mr and Mrs F needed to address 
was that the bank details had been fraudulently changed since their last payment, not that 
the entire sale was a scam. So I dont think Mr and Mrs F should reasonably have thought 
the steps they took following the warning were sufficient to address the risks they were 
warned about. And as Mr and Mrs F appear to have then lied to Lloyds about whether they 
had confirmed the bank details, I think its likely they were aware of this too. So I dont think 
Mr and Mrs F took appropriate action in response to the warning Lloyds gave them.
And while I appreciate that they felt under time pressure to make the payment and so 
complete the purchase of the car that day, all these conversations happened early in the 
morning so there was plenty of time left in the day for the payment to be made. And Im not 
satisfied that following Lloyds advice and confirming the payment details would have taken 
significantly longer than the call to the dealership Mr and Mrs F did make. So I dont think it 
was reasonable for them to take the action they did, or to fail to take the appropriate action 
Lloyds had advised.
If Mr and Mrs F had taken appropriate action, by calling the dealership and confirming the 
payment details, I think its likely the scam would have been uncovered. The genuine 
dealership had not sent the emails changing the bank details. So, if asked, I think they would 
have told Mr and Mrs F to make the payment to the same bank details they had made the 
earlier payments to and that the bank details did not need to be changed. And so Mr and 
Mrs F wouldnt have made the payment to the incorrect bank details and wouldnt have lost 
the money.
I therefore think this exception to reimbursement under the CRM code applies here, and so 
Lloyds does not have to refund Mr and Mrs F the money they lost.
Mr and Mrs F have mentioned other cases our service has looked at which they consider 
similar to theirs, and where the bank was required to refund the money customers had lost. 
But we look at each case individually on its own merits so I cant comment on the specific 
differences between Mr and Mrs Fs complaint and any others our service has looked at. 
And, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied Lloyds isnt required to refund the 
money Mr and Mrs F lost here.Did Lloyds do enough to try to recover the money Mr and Mrs F lost?
We expect banks to take reasonable steps to try to recover the money their customers have 
lost, once they are made aware of a scam.
Lloyds evidence shows it contacted the bank the payment was sent to within a reasonable 
amount of time, to ask for the money to be returned. So while unfortunately the bank the 
payment was sent to hasnt been able to return any of the money, Lloyds has done all I 
would expect it to have done and I dont think it would be fair to require it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman