DRN-4136625
The complaint
Miss A complains that eBay Commerce (eBay) hasnt help her during a dispute she had 
about an item she sold on eBay marketplace. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
eBay didnt authorise the chargeback of funds, the buyers bank did. So eBays role 
was to supply information to the bank to support Miss As case for defending the 
return of funds.
eBay asked Miss A to upload tracking information to evidence the item she sold was 
delivered. Miss A uploaded a postal receipt instead and this was in turn sent to the 
bank deciding the chargeback. As no tracking number was provided, neither 
business could check the item was delivered. 
Miss A says she wasnt able to upload any further evidence for the chargeback 
dispute, however eBay have explained that no further information was required due 
to it being a goods not received dispute. 
Although Miss A says that the buyer left her positive feedback and messaged to say 
she had received the item, this is not information the bank asked for and Im satisfied 
that it wouldnt have made a difference to the success of the claim had it been 
supplied by eBay. I say this as the tracking number is the most reliable information to 
evidence the item was received. Within the additional information Miss A supplied, 
there appears to be some discrepancies including her and the buyer being unsure of 
who raised the claim. So, in these circumstances, Im satisfied that eBay were correct 
to use the tracking information in defence of the claim. 
Although I understand Miss As frustration that the bank upheld the buyers 
chargeback request, Im satisfied eBay asked for the correct information and in turn 
passed this on to the bank. As Miss A didnt have a tracking number due to the type 
of postal service used, Im satisfied eBay were unable to do any more to defend the 
claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman