DRN-3763103
The complaint
Mr J complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc (trading as Moneyway) irresponsibly granted him 
a hire purchase agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In December 2019, Mr J acquired a car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Moneyway. Mr J was required to make 59 monthly repayments of around £446 followed by a 
final payment of around £456. The total repayable under the agreement was around 
£26,781.
Mr J says that Moneyway didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneyway didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included asking Mr J about his monthly income 
and checking whether this was correct based on an analysis of his current account. It made 
an assessment of Mr Js expenditure based on information about his other credit 
commitments, estimated rent and cost of living based on his location and this was then 
adjusted to reflect the information provided by Mr J that he was single, employed and living 
with his parents. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneyway didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr J didnt agree and said his bank statements and credit report werent reviewed before the 
lending was provided and had they been it would have been clear the lending was 
unaffordable. He said he had been declined for finance by other companies and his credit 
report would have shown his debts were spiralling. He says he felt pressured into the 
agreement.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneyway will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
The credit check Moneyway completed showed that Mr J had accounts in arrears around the 
time of his application and this information was supported by the credit report Mr J provided. 
I think this ought to have indicated that Mr J was likely to be struggling financially. It therefore 
would have been proportionate for Moneyway to have got a more thorough understanding of 
Mr Js financial circumstances before lending.
Moneyway asked Mr J about his monthly income and verified this amount. I note it also 
assessed his expenses based on his credit file and other data sources. However in this case 
given the overall size of the borrowing, the monthly repayments, the term of the agreement 
and noting the information in Mr Js credit report, I think it would have been proportionate for 
Moneyway to have asked Mr J about his specific expenses to ensure the lending was 
affordable. .
I cant be certain what Mr J would have told Moneyway had it asked about his regular 
expenditure. I dont think Moneyway necessarily needed to request bank statements, but I 
think it did need to get a clear picture of his spending and in the absence of anything else, 
Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in Mr Js statements as an 
indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed Mr Js credit report and three months of bank statements prior to the 
application. These show Mr Js income to average just over £1,900 which is in line with the 
income figure used by Moneyway. His credit file showed monthly loan repayments of £395 
and although his bank statements do not show this amount being paid, I think it reasonable 
to include it in the assessment. Mr J also had a credit card and his statements show 
payments made towards this. Aside from this, Mr Js bank statements do not show any other 
regular committed expenditure and noting that Mr J was living with his parents it is possible 
he didnt have regular commitments for housing costs although it is likely he would be 
making contribution towards these. Mr J was making payments for travel and food. Taking 
the information from Mr Js bank statements, credit report and noting the other information 
provided at application, I think the amounts Moneyway included for Mr Js credit 
commitments, rent and living expenses was reasonable. Taking these figures into account, it 
appears to show the agreement was affordable to Mr J. For this reason, Im not persuaded 
that Moneyway acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman