The complaint
Mr and Mrs J says HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly closed their joint bank accounts and hasnt 
provided a satisfactory explanation why it did so. 
 What happened
Mr and Mrs J had several joint accounts with HSBC.
In May 2018, HSBC decided to close all of Mr and Mrs Js accounts. And it gave them two 
months notice to make alternative banking arrangements. 
Mr J complained to HSBC and said theyd been customers of the bank for many years. He 
said HSBCs behaviour was unfair and very upsetting for both him and his wife especially 
after being customers for so long. HSBC said it had acted in accordance with the terms and 
conditions when it closed the accounts. Mr J wasnt happy with this response, so he brought 
her complaint to this service. 
An investigator looked at Mr and Mrs Js complaint. She said HSBC hadnt done anything 
wrong when it closed their accounts. Mr and Mrs J disagreed. As no agreement could be 
reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs J are upset that HSBC has closed all their accounts. And that this 
has caused them a good deal of inconvenience. Theyve also pointed out that they have 
been loyal customers of the bank for many years and has always operated their accounts 
properly. And Ive no reason to doubt what they say. 
Whilst I appreciate the impact this had for Mr and Mrs J, a bank is entitled to close an 
account with a customer just as a customer may close an account with a bank. But before a 
bank closes an account, it must do so in a way which complies with the terms and conditions 
of the account.
Ive seen a copy of a letter HSBC sent to Mr and Mrs J dated 18 May 2018, which informed 
them it would be closing their accounts on 16 July 2018  within 60 days. So, Im satisfied 
that HSBC has complied with the terms and conditions of the account.
DRN-1284905Under the terms and conditions HSBC could close the accounts by giving Mr and Mrs J 60 
days notice. And it wasnt required to give them a reason, as much as theyd like to know. 
So, I cant say HSBC has done anything wrong by not providing this information to them.   
I know Mr J suspects that HSBC has closed the accounts because he has made complaints 
and criticised how HSBC conducts business. But I havent seen any evidence that this was 
the case. Im also aware that our investigator has provided the reason for the closure was 
due to Mr Js behaviour in a branch. So, Im satisfied Mr J ought reasonably to understand 
why HSBC closed the accounts. In any event, I find that HSBC has closed the accounts in 
line with the terms and conditions.
I appreciate that the closure of the accounts has caused Mr and Mrs J inconvenience and 
upset. But the bank can make commercial decisions about who it offers banking services to. 
They cannot unfairly discriminate against a customer. But they can say they no longer wish 
to do business with individuals. Thats because theyve got the commercial freedom to 
decide who they want to contract with. And having looked at the circumstances of this case, 
Im satisfied that HSBC has exercised its commercial decision legitimately. So, I cannot say 
it has treated Mr and Mrs J unfairly when it closed their accounts.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman