DRN-3458117
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy about Unum Ltds decision to decline her claim. 
What happened
Mrs F has a group income protection insurance policy through her employer, underwritten by 
Unum. This will pay a benefit if Mrs F is unable to work due to illness or injury for a deferred 
(waiting) period of 26 weeks. 
In October 2019 Mrs F became absent from work. She returned to work part time in 
February 2020, during the deferred period, and did not return to full time hours throughout 
2020. 
A claim was submitted to Unum but declined as it didnt think Mrs F met the definition of 
incapacity throughout the deferred period.
Mrs F complained and unhappy with Unums response, referred her complaint to this 
Service. Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Unum had unfairly 
declined the claim based on the medical evidence available. 
Mrs F asked for a final decision. And so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator. 
The relevant rules and industry guidance say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly, and it shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms define incapacity as follows:
Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties of the insured occupation.
The terms also confirm a proportionate benefit is payable if the member is incapacitated but 
working in their usual role on a reduced basis. 
So this means Unum would pay Mrs F a benefit if she was unable to perform the material 
and substantial duties of her role for 26 weeks and beyond. And the onus is on Mrs F to 
show, through medical evidence, that she meets the terms of the policy.
Mrs F became absent from work in October 2019. Unum reviewed the relevant period for the 
claim from October 2019 to April 2020, when benefit would have become due if Mrs F met 
the definition of incapacity for the duration of this period.
Ive seen that Unum obtained and reviewed the relevant medical evidence including Mrs Fs 
GP records and occupational health reports. But it didnt think there was sufficient evidence 
of incapacity or any independent medical opinion explaining why Mrs F was unable to return 
to full time hours.
Ill summarise the key evidence below.
The key medical evidence during the deferred period
Between October and November 2019  Mrs Fs GP notes she has been stressed due to 
personal and family issues and having to check her blood sugar levels due to diabetes and 
pressures of work.
November 2019  a letter from the diabetes clinic says Mrs D is having difficulties with 
controlling her diabetes and suggests she takes more insulin and new medication.
December 2019  Mrs Fs GP notes she has good days and bad days but is having 
counselling and a break from work. The GP advises Mrs F to return to work after the new 
year. 
February 2020  GP notes record diabetic review.
Between October 2019 and April 2020, the occupational health reports all conclude that Mrs 
F needs to control her diabetes and a phased return to work is necessary. The OH reports 
refer to Mrs Fs significant stress, anxiety and diabetic burnout. 
Mrs F says her main reason for claiming on the policy was due to her diabetic burnout. 
Unum said there was insufficient medical evidence to show that Mrs Fs diabetes wasnt 
controlled.
Having considered all of the above, I dont think Unum unfairly declined this claim. Although 
Mrs F spoke to her occupational therapist on a number of occasions in 2019 and 2020 there 
is very little independent objective medical evidence to show that she needed support with 
controlling her diabetes in the deferred period. The occupational health reports are all based 
on Mrs Fs own reporting of her symptoms. On their own, theyre not enough to evidence 
incapacity. 
Although the medical evidence shows Mrs F was struggling with her diabetes in November 
2019, she was advised to take more insulin and start new medication. She then returned to 
work and there is nothing significant recorded in her next diabetes review in February 2020. 
So based on this, Mrs hasnt been able to demonstrate that she was incapacitated as a 
result of her diabetes throughout the whole of the deferred period. 
Mrs Fs occupational therapist also referred to significant stress and anxiety. I would expect 
to see GP records and notes of discussions relating to Mrs Fs anxiety and further 
interventions. But in the absence of this, I cant say that Unum unfairly concluded that Mrs F 
didnt demonstrate that she was suffering from a mental health illness which rendered her 
unable to perform the material and substantial duties of her role.
As Mrs F didnt meet the definition of incapacity as set out in the policy terms and conditions, 
I dont think Unum has done anything wrong.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman