DRN-3159403
The complaint
Mr P complains about the delays to an Individual Savings Account (ISA) transfer request 
caused by Paragon Bank Plc, which he says has resulted in financial loss. 
What happened
The background to this complaint was set out by the investigator and is well known by both 
parties, so I wont go into detail again here. Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
In brief, our investigator thought the offer made by Paragon to Mr P of £40 for the distress 
and inconvenience it had caused him, was fair. However, I issued a provisional decision 
saying that I thought that Paragon should increase this offer to £100.
Paragon agreed with this outcome and said it had nothing further to add. Mr P said he was 
willing to accept the payment of £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. However, 
he disagreed with my findings that Paragon wasnt liable for the financial losses he was 
claiming. Mr P said that he only chose to move to a different provider due to the service he 
received from Paragon. Therefore, he reiterated that it should be liable for the loss of interest 
he suffered.
So, the matter has been passed back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having re-considered everything, my decision remains the same. In summary, the reasons 
for upholding this complaint in part are as follows:
Its not in dispute that Paragon made an error in processing Mr Ps application  this 
led to delays with Mr Ps ISA transfer request which meant its interest rate offer of 
1.20% had expired before the transfer was due to happen.
On 31 May 2020 Mr P spoke to Paragon asking for an update. But at this point its 
agent told Mr P that the offer had expired and Paragon would not honour it. I can see 
Mr P didnt accept the 1% interest rate Paragons ISA had decreased to. Instead, he 
decided to cancel the transfer request and remain with his current provider which 
was offering an ISA account with an interest rate of 0.85% fixed for two years.
From what I can see, Paragon did change its mind about its decision to not offer Mr P 
the 1.20% interest rate. This was communicated to him in its letter dated 15 June 
2020, but by this point Mr P had already chosen to stay with his current ISA provider.
Whilst I understand Mr Ps reasons for doing so, I cant hold Paragon responsible for 
his decision to cancel the transfer and stay with his current provider. I say this 
because even though Paragon had previously said it wouldnt honour its original 
offer, it was still offering a higher rate of interest than that of his current provider. 
Wed normally expect customers to mitigate their losses and as Mr P decided to stop 
the transfer and remain with his current provider, taking a lower interest rate as a 
result, I dont think I can fairly hold Paragon responsible for any losses hes claiming 
he suffered.
I do, however, understand that Paragons actions did cause him distress and 
inconvenience. As Ive outlined above he was initially told by Paragon that he 
wouldnt receive the 1.20% offer when, in fact, he missed out on this due to its 
(Paragons) delays. And then it changed its mind. So, I think Paragon did cause Mr P 
trouble and upset here.
I know Mr P is unhappy with other customer service issues. In particular, he says he 
made several calls to Paragon when the transfer hadnt gone ahead on time. And he 
was unhappy with the call waiting times so says he was forced to abandon some of 
these calls. I understand Mr Ps frustrations, but Paragon has explained to him the 
reasons for the waiting times he experienced, which were due to changes made in 
response to the Covid-19 situation. Further, I can see an agent did call Mr P back on 
31 May 2020 when he wrote to the business on 22 May. Overall, I dont think 
Paragons contact waiting times were unreasonable under the circumstances.
Taking everything into account, I think Paragon should pay Mr P £100 for its mistake. 
However, I dont think Mr Ps further comments change my decision as these arent 
materially different from the comments he made in his submissions to this service 
previously. I acknowledge that Mr P felt forced into staying with his current provider. 
But as Ive said, I cant hold Paragon responsible for the choice he made as he had 
the option to transfer to Paragon and receive a higher interest rate. 
So, whilst I appreciate Mr P will be disappointed with this outcome, my decision remains the 
same as I outlined in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and order Paragon Bank Plc to pay Mr P £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman