DRN-2506081
The complaint
Mr B and Ms R say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should have told them that if they 
paid their mortgage on the 1st of the month then theyd pay less interest. They also say they 
had to make multiple phone calls, and received incorrect information, when they were 
amending their direct debit to the 1st of the month.
  
What happened
Mr B and Ms R took out this mortgage in 2001. At that time Halifax automatically set the 
monthly payment date as the same day of the month that the mortgage completed, so Mr B 
and Ms Rs payment due date was the 17th of the month.
In November 2003 Mr B and Ms R moved their payment due date to the 28th of the month.
Unfortunately, due to the passage of time the paperwork for the above are no longer 
available, but the information has been obtained from the transaction history we have.
In March and April 2020 Mr B and Ms R made manual payments as they wanted to pay at 
the end of the month. It seems it wasnt explained to Mr B and Ms R that doing so may 
cause arrears letters to be generated if they paid after the 28th of the month. No arrears letter 
was generated in March due to when the payment fell due and was paid with the weekend. 
But in April 2020 an arrears letter was automatically generated. Mr B phoned Halifax to 
query that on 4 May 2020. The call note records that it was discussed that it might be better 
for the payment due date to be moved to the 1st of the month to avoid it happening again as 
Ms B got paid on the last day of the month with her new job. Mr B was told that to do so a 
payment break would be needed (otherwise Mr B and Ms R would have to pay on the 28th of 
one month, and then again on the 1st of the next month).
The next note is from 6 May 2020 and records that Mr B was calling to ensure the payment 
break had been processed as hes received a letter stating that payment was still expected. 
The notes show he was told the next payment was expected in June rather than May.
On 14 May Halifax received a notification that Mr B and Ms R had cancelled the freshly set 
up direct debit instruction with their bank. This triggered an automatic letter to go out to Mr B 
and Ms R.
Mr B called again on 26 May and raised a complaint. As part of that call the direct debit was 
reinstated and £10 compensation was offered for the confusion.
On 29 May Mr B called Halifax again as he believed the direct debit hadnt been set up, and 
he was reassured it had been.
Then on 4 June the direct debit collected as anticipated, and since then it has collected on 
the 1st of each month (unless that was a weekend or bank holiday).
Halifax responded to Mr B and Ms R complaint on 29 June. In that it said it had previously 
resolved the complaint about the direct debit due date amendment, and didnt uphold the 
complaint that the mortgage was mis-sold due to the fact the payment due date hadnt been 
set at the 1st of the month from the start.
Our investigator looked at things. He said he felt Halifaxs communication could have been 
better in March/April 2020 as the arrears letter that was sent would have been a surprise and 
caused some distress to Mr B and Ms R. For that he felt a further £50 compensation should 
be paid, on top of the £10 already offered by Halifax for the confusion with the direct debit.
Mr B and Ms R didnt agree and so it has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Mr B and Ms R say Halifax should have told them to pay on the 1st of the month, and 
because theyve been paying on the 28th of the month theyve incurred more interest.
Whilst I understand the point Mr B and Ms R are making, advising on when in the month a 
mortgage should be paid isnt something Halifax is required to do. Mortgages werent 
regulated in 2001 when they took this out, and at that time Halifax defaulted to the monthly 
payment being due on the same day in the month that the mortgage completed, so for Mr B 
and Ms R that was the 17th. Customers could request a different date if it suited their needs 
more, and it seems thats what Mr B and Ms R did in December 2003 when their due date 
changed to the 28th of the month. Theres nothing wrong with either of those, and it wasnt up 
to Halifax to recommend they do anything else. Not least because it is a very personal thing. 
For every person for which the 1st of the month is the right choice, for another it wouldnt be 
suitable (due to when they get paid, their other commitments or just personal choice).
Halifax no longer has the paperwork or contact notes from 2001 and from the change in 
payment date in 2003. Thats to be expected bearing in mind the length of time that has 
passed. I can see the Information about your mortgage document from 2001 states You 
can, if you wish, specify a different day of the month (up to and including 28th of the month) 
to make your monthly payments. If you do we shall adjust the day to the one you want. 
Halifax didnt have to make a suggestion to Mr B and Ms R about when they should pay, the 
information about the mortgage set out that the due date could be altered, and a change was 
made in December 2003 so it seems Mr B and Ms R were aware of that option.
Halifax didnt do anything wrong in not proactively telling Mr B and Ms R that they could pay 
their mortgage on the 1st of the month and explaining that would save them mortgage 
interest, as thats not something it has any obligation to do. I can only uphold a complaint 
where a business has done something wrong, and as Halifax didnt have to do that it follows 
that it didnt do anything wrong in not doing so.
All that said, I agree with our investigator that the communication around the payments in 
March and April 2020 could have been better, and it would have been upsetting for Mr B and 
Ms R to have received an arrears letter they werent expecting. For that I agree that £50 
compensation is fair.Whilst Mr B and Ms R have said they accepted the £10 for the confusion with the direct debit 
in May 2020 and consider that matter resolved, for completeness Ill confirm if that issue had 
come to me to decide I wouldnt have awarded any more compensation.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part, and only insofar as I award £50 for the poor communication 
around the March and April 2020 payments. My final decision is that I order Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay £50 to Mr B and Ms R, on top of the £10 it had already 
offered when it dealt with the complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman