DRN-3354731
The complaint
Miss B complains that Next Retail Limited (Next), trading as Next Financial Services, 
irresponsibly gave her a running account credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
Miss B has complained about unaffordable lending on a shopping credit account that she 
took out with Next. 
In September 2016, Miss B applied for a credit account with Next. She was given an initial 
credit limit of £900. The credit limit was increased to £1500 in January 2017 and further 
increases followed, going up to £5000 in October 2018. 
Miss B complained to Next to say that the lending was unaffordable and that Next ought to 
have made a better effort to understand her financial circumstances before increasing her 
credit limits.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint as she thought Miss B appeared to have 
been managing her account without getting into difficulty. 
As Miss B didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Next will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website.
Based on what Ive seen about this complaint, Ive reached a conclusion thats similar to 
that of our adjudicator. Thats because I dont think Nexts actions have caused Miss B 
financial loss. Ill explain why. 
Prior to providing credit and increased credit to Miss B, Next says it carried out a credit 
check to determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. Next told us that Miss Bs 
account was assessed on a monthly basis from the credit check information and the credit 
limit was set using that information and its observation of Miss Bs management of the 
account. 
I agree with our adjudicator that allowing Miss B an opening credit limit of £900 was not 
unreasonable. I say this because the initial credit of £900 was provided when Next told us 
there was no recent adverse information on Miss Bs credit file. Its certainly possible that 
Nexts checks at the time of the account opening werent as thorough or sufficient as they 
might have been. But even so, from what Ive seen, I dont think better enquiries would 
have caused Next to think the initial credit limit was unaffordable.
Going forwards, Ive seen that at no time did Miss B allow her credit to exceed the opening 
credit limit, even when the higher credit limits were later allowed on the agreement. She 
made monthly payments that were in the main at the level of or above the minimum 
requested. I also see that lump sum payments were made on at least two occasions to 
clear the balance. Miss B says these were funded by credit card transfers. On their own, 
however, on their own these wouldnt necessarily show or suggest that she was 
experiencing financial difficulty. Miss B also didnt have any arrears from missed payments 
and doesnt appear to have incurred any late payment fees. 
Ive also noted that Next reduced Miss Bs credit limit for a short time in late 2016 due to 
changes in her credit file information, before the increases took place early the following 
year.
I think at the time of each increase it would have been sensible for Next to carry out 
proportionate checks to make sure that Miss Bs financial situation was such that she 
could afford these increases. However, Ive kept in mind that whether the subsequent 
credit limits were reasonable or otherwise is something that is less relevant for this 
particular complaint. I say that because financial redress is designed to put someone back 
in the position as if the failing had not happened. In this case, as Ive mentioned above, 
Miss Bs credit usage never exceeded the initial credit limit of £900. As such, even were I 
to think the later credit increases were unreasonable, there would not be any redress to 
pay. This is because Miss B has suffered no detriment as a result of the actions of Next.   
Following our adjudicators initial finding, Miss B sent us some bank statements to review 
from around the time the account was first opened. Ive looked through these but they 
dont show that Miss Bs financial situation, taking into account her regular outgoings and 
living expenses, was such that the opening balance of £900 wasnt appropriate for her. 
Ive also kept in mind what Miss B has told us about going on maternity leave and not 
returning to work after that. Ive also seen that Miss B decided against getting in touch with 
Next about her financial situation during the time she was using the account. But, given 
what Ive seen about the way she managed her account, I dont think there was enough to 
alert Next to the possibility that her financial situation may have deteriorated. 
So, I dont make any award as I dont think Miss B was caused any loss or material 
distress or inconvenience as a result of anything Next did after the credit was agreed with 
the initial credit limit. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman