DRN-2692899
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Yorkshire Building Society applied an overpayment to the wrong 
part of their mortgage.
What happened
Part of Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage with YBS was on a capital repayment basis and part was 
on an interest only basis. In August 2018 Mrs C called YBS and made a lump sum payment 
to repay the interest only part of the mortgage.
In May 2020 Mr and Mrs C found out that YBS had applied most of the payment to the part 
of the mortgage that was on a capital repayment basis. YBS accepts this was an error. It 
transferred the remaining interest only balance onto the capital repayment part of the 
mortgage. It removed the interest applied to the account as a result of the error and offered 
£150 for the upset caused.
As a result of the error, Mr and Mrs Cs monthly payments from late 2018 to May 2020 were 
lower than they needed to be to repay the capital by the time the term expires in 2025. Mr 
and Mrs C now have less time to repay the capital and say their monthly payments have 
increased as a result of YBSs error.
Our investigator said YBS had done enough to put matters right.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. They said the lump sum they paid was a lot of money to make an 
error with. Theyre upset that through no fault of their own they have a mortgage balance 
which is higher than it should be. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C called YBS and made a lump sum payment of about £40,000 to repay the interest 
only part of the mortgage. Theres no dispute that YBS made an error when it applied the 
lump sum to the capital repayment part of the mortgage. So I have to decide if its done 
enough to put matters right. In doing so, Ive taken the following into account.
Mrs C called YBS about making the lump sum payment. She said she wanted to apply 
the lump sum to repay the interest only part of the mortgage.
YBS sent a letter to Mr and Mrs C saying the lump sum payment had been received and 
part 4 of the mortgage had been redeemed. I dont think its fair to say that Mr and Mrs C 
should have known from this that the interest only part hadnt been repaid. 
The mortgage statements sent to Mr and Mrs C in January 2019 and January 2020 say 
theres an outstanding interest-only balance. Mr and Mrs C could have questioned this.
If the lump sum had been applied correctly I think Mr and Mrs Cs monthly payments 
between late 2018 and May 2020 would have been about £75 more.
YBS said if the lump sum had been applied correctly and the higher monthly payments 
made, the balance would have been about £1,590 lower. While YBS says about £66 less 
interest would have been applied to the account, it has adjusted the account to remove 
the additional interest. 
Mr and Mrs C will need to make higher monthly payments to repay the capital balance by 
the time the mortgage term expires. 
Mr and Mrs C havent said they will have difficulty paying the higher monthly payments.
YBS transferred the interest only balance onto repayment terms and removed the additional 
interest. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C would like their balance to be lower  as it would have been if 
theyd made higher payments between late 2018 and May 2020. I must take into account 
here that the reason for the higher balance is that Mr and Mrs C made lower payments for 
more than a year. While I do appreciate this wasnt by choice, nonetheless they had the 
benefit of the lower payments.
I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to ask YBS to write off part of the 
mortgage balance.
Putting things right
YBS did make an error here. However, it responded promptly to put matters right when Mr 
and Mrs C pointed out the error. It offered £150 compensation for the trouble and upset this 
caused. Overall, I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
YBS says the cheque it sent to Mr and Mrs C wasnt cashed. It says a new cheque can be 
sent.
My final decision
My decision is that Yorkshire Building Society should pay £150 to Mr and Mrs C, as it offered 
to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman