DRN-2907884
The complaint
Mr B complains on behalf of A, a charity, that Barclays Bank UK PLC paid a monthly 
standing order to the wrong payee for nineteen years.
What happened
Mr B is the chair of trustees and the treasurer of A. Since the 1990s, A had been supporting 
another charity, which I will call D, by donating £100 a month by standing order from As 
Barclays account. Mr B has provided evidence that in 1997, the standing order was being 
paid to the correct account details. But in 2019 it came to light that the standing order was 
now being paid to a third partys account instead. That payee was yet another charity, which 
I will call X, and it had spent all the money.
Further investigation revealed that the standing order had stopped being paid to D, the 
intended recipient, in late 2000 (without the payment reference changing). So Mr B cancelled 
the standing order, and complained to Barclays. He asked for a refund of £22,800 (being 
£100 a year for exactly 19 years).
Barclays did not have records going as far back as 2000, and it pointed out that it only has a 
duty to retain records for six years. It said there was not enough evidence, either in its own 
possession or Mr Bs, to determine what had happened. It suggested that the problem would 
not have continued for as long as it had if Mr B had carried out an audit of As standing 
orders from time to time. Mr B argued that there would have been no reason for him to do 
that. He brought this complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He was satisfied that the standing order had been set 
up to the correct payee, D, in 1997. Ds bank statements showed that D had continued to 
receive the standing order until October 2000, after which time it had received no more 
payments. X, the charity which had been receiving the payments in 2019, provided its own 
statements, which went back as far as October 2002 (earlier statements were no longer 
available). These statements showed that the standing order had been paid into Xs account 
every month since October 2002. So the investigator inferred that X had been receiving the 
payments since November 2000, being the first month in which D did not receive a payment. 
The payment reference, which was an abbreviation of Ds name (and was entirely dissimilar 
to Xs name), had never been changed between 1997 and 2019. This suggested to the 
investigator that A had always intended to keep paying D all along.
The investigator noted that as well as the standing order which is the subject of this 
complaint, A had set up a second standing order to X, on purpose. The first payment had 
been made in July 2000, and the last in March 2002. The investigator concluded that the 
setting up of this second standing order in 2000 must have somehow resulted in Xs account 
details being substituted for Ds in the first standing order. He recommended that Barclays 
refund £22,800 to A, and pay A another £200 for its inconvenience.
Barclays did not agree with that opinion. In particular, it pointed out that the second standing 
order had been set up in June 2000, but the first standing order had not been affected until 
five months later, in November. It argued that this meant the two events were unrelated, and 
the second standing order had not affected the first. It maintained that there was no 
evidence at all about how or why the first standing order had been changed, since neither 
party had any records from 2000, and nor did any third party (other than As and Ds bank 
statements). It suggested that Mr B should look again and see if he could find any standing 
order mandates from 2000. Barclays also reiterated that Mr B should have reviewed As 
accounts and charitable donations to ensure that any regular payments were still reaching 
their intended beneficiary, since this would have mitigated As loss. It asked for an 
ombudsman to review this complaint.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since there is no direct evidence about what happened to the standing order or whose fault 
it was, I will begin by summarising the facts which are supported by documented evidence. 
I will then consider whether any meaningful inferences can be drawn from them.
In chronological order, the earliest undisputed fact is that the standing order to D was 
amended in 1997. Mr B has provided a copy of the amendment mandate (the original was 
handed in at his local branch). It is signed by Mr B and another trustee. He also provided a 
letter from D to A requesting the change. The mandate form is headed STANDING ORDER 
FORM (AMENDMENT), but in fact the requested changes were to cancel an existing 
standing order to D, and to set up a new standing order to another account which D had at a 
different bank.
There is clear evidence that this was done, because Ds bank statements for the new 
account show that the new standing order for £100 a month was paid into that account from 
As account for the next three years. The sort code and account number for those 
statements match those given on the 1997 mandate form. So the correct account details 
were provided by Mr B, and the new payment instruction was correctly followed by Barclays 
at the time.
The same payments also appear on As bank statements. The payment reference for these 
payments is an abbreviation of the name of Ds account. It is clearly dissimilar to Xs name.
In July 2000, the new standing order to X began. That was also an order to pay £100 a 
month. The first payment was made on 6 July, and the payment reference was Xs name. 
Meanwhile, the existing standing order to D was paid on 3 July, and during the months of 
August to October inclusive, both standing orders appear alongside each other in As bank 
statements. They are clearly two separate standing orders, to different payees.
There was no payment to D in November 2000, or since, as can be seen in Ds bank 
statements. But in As statements, the monthly payments to D appear to still continue, with 
the same payment reference, until October 2019, when Mr B cancelled it. There was nothing 
in As statements to indicate to A that the payments were no longer going to D.
Meanwhile, the new standing order to X continued up to March 2002, when A cancelled it. 
(This can be seen in As statements.) But by then, the 1997 standing order which was 
ostensibly being paid to D (and which As trustees believed was being paid to D) was 
actually being paid to X. This can be seen on Xs statements.The statements X has provided only cover the period from October 2002 to 2015. Monthly 
payments of £100 from As account can be seen going into Xs account every month 
throughout this period. These payments are nothing to do with the standing order A had paid 
to X from 2000 to 2002, because there is clear evidence in As statements that it had already 
been cancelled in March 2002. No standing order to X appears in As statements after that.
Barclays has confirmed from its own records that the payees details in the long-running 
standing order are for Xs account, and they were not changed between December 2005 
(which is as far back as its records still go) to when Mr B cancelled it in 2019. So it is clear 
that the standing order in every month of Xs statements is the same one which Mr B 
cancelled in 2019, and that this is also the same one that he set up in 1997, and which has 
shown up in As statements ever since 1997 as a series of payments to D.
Although there is no direct evidence of exactly what went wrong, I think there is compelling 
circumstantial evidence to show that the beneficiary of the 1997 standing order changed 
from D to X between the October and November payments in 2000.
Since the 2000  2002 standing order to X began on 6 July 2000, it must have been set up 
in the first days of July at the latest, and more probably some time in June. That means there 
must be a gap of at least three months minimum, and perhaps as long as nearly five months, 
between A providing Barclays with Xs account details and the change to the payee details 
from D to X of the 1997  2019 standing order. They could not have happened 
simultaneously.
 
That does not mean that the 2000  2002 standing order is entirely a red herring, because 
without it there would be no evidence that A had ever provided Barclays with Xs account 
details. Nevertheless, because of the delay between setting up the new order and changing 
the payees details in the old order, I am not persuaded that these two events are directly 
linked by cause and effect. I think something else would have had to happen for Xs account 
details to be substituted for Ds in another standing order.
I think that it is unlikely to have been caused by some attempt by Mr B, or by any of As other 
trustees, to amend the standing order again in some way, for the following reasons.
Firstly, the payment reference did not change. That suggests to me that A always intended 
the payments to D to continue. Mr B has confirmed that that was his intention until 2019.
Secondly, if A had asked Barclays to change the beneficiary of the standing order to 
somebody else in October or November 2000, I think this would have been done by 
cancelling the 1997 order to D and setting up a new one to X, rather than by amending the 
payee details in the existing order and allowing it to continue. That is how it was done in 
1997, when all that was happening was changing the account details but keeping the same 
beneficiary.
Thirdly, A had already set up a new standing order to X not long earlier, in July 2000. It 
seems unlikely that A would want to set up another one to the same beneficiary so soon 
after that. Even if it did, it seems that it would have been simpler to simply cancel the 
payments to D and double the payments to X, rather than to have two separate standing 
orders to X running at the same time.
Fourthly, the fact that A still has a record of a standing order mandate from 1997 suggests 
that it would also have a more recent one, if there had been one relating to the payments to 
D in 2000. (One point that could be made against that argument is that A no longer has a 
copy of the mandate which was used to set up the July 2000 standing order to X, but I think 
that can be explained by the cancellation of that order in 2002. There was no longer a need to keep the mandate for that standing order, but the 1997 standing order continued to 2019, 
so A kept a copy of the mandate.)
For all of those reasons, but principally the first three, I think it is more likely than not that the 
change of payee was the result of a banking error by Barclays. I will uphold this complaint on 
that basis.
I have considered whether A should have mitigated its loss in the way that Barclays has 
suggested, by checking from time to time whether its standing orders were still going to the 
intended beneficiaries. But on reflection, I am not persuaded by that. A standing order is by 
its nature the kind of payment method which the payer can reasonably expect to set up and 
then take care of itself, since it should not be varied except on application. And I also accept 
Mr Bs evidence, having regard to his more than 30 years of experience as As treasurer, 
that this is not something a charity would typically do. I also accept that the charity is 
periodically audited by an independent accountant. Finally, and as I have already said, there 
was nothing in As bank statements to suggest that any change had been made to the 
standing order, or that anything untoward had occurred.
I agree with the investigators proposed redress.
So my provisional decision is that I currently intend to uphold this complaint. Subject to any 
further representations I receive from the parties  I intend to order Barclays Bank UK PLC 
to pay A £23,000.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. So there is no reason for me to depart from 
my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay A £23,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B, on behalf of 
A, to accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman