DRN-4139071
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Cambrian Associates Limited (CAL) gave him unsuitable advice to 
transfer his defined benefits from his occupational pension scheme (OPS)  the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a Personal Pension Policy (PPP).
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in her 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Gs employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor
scheme, BSPS 2, the PPF or into a private arrangement, such as a PPP.
Mr G was sent a transfer value quote on 18 September 2017 for his BSPS pension benefits. 
He had pensionable service of 33 years, and a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
£513,885.
Mr G met with an adviser from CAL who completed a fact find analysis on 11 October 2017 
to establish his circumstances and financial objectives. An assessment of his attitude to risk 
determined that his risk appetite was balanced.
The fact find recorded the following further details about Mr G:
He was 50, cohabiting with his partner, and in good health. He was employed, 
earning around £40,000 pa. 
He was looking to retire at 60 with annual net income of £24,000 and expected to 
receive £8,320 annually from the state pension from age 67.
His net monthly income was £2,400, he had joint monthly expenditure of £1,190, a 
jointly owned residence valued at £130,000, and a car worth £11,000. No debts or 
other liabilities were noted. His partner had savings of £25,000.
He was contributing £200 (6%) per month to the workplace pension, which also 
received employer contributions of £333 per month (10%).
Mr G was recorded as being concerned about the stability of his BSPS pension and didnt 
want to transfer to the BSPS2 or PPF because of this. His objectives were to retire at 60 
with pension income of £2,000 net per month. To leave any unused funds to [partner] when I 
die. 
Mr G wanted a major proportion of his pension fund to be protected as far as possible
and said his dependants could benefits from additional sums of money in the event of his 
death.
He had no requirement for a pension commencement lump sum (PCLS) on retirement,
expected to retire early and was happy to receive a lower sum on retirement to do this. He
had little prior investment experience.
The risk profiling questionnaire asked 10 questions of Mr G on a scale of 1-5 (1 being 
strongly agree, and 5 being strongly disagree). Five of the answers given were neutral 
(3). Mr G did not strongly agree with any of the statements, and only strongly disagreed 
with one question - when asked whether he would invest in something high risk. When 
asked whether he would describe himself as a risk taker, he answered 2 to indicate 
disagreement with the statement. His capacity for loss was recorded as low, as the fund 
would be required to produce his required income in retirement.
Quotes for mortgage protection life assurance were obtained, as well as whole of life (WOL)
protection for £513,885 at £516 per month. WOL cover was discounted due to the size of
the premium, and Mr G did not want to commit to a substantial monthly sum for the rest of 
his life. 
CAL issued a suitability report on 21 October 2017 and recommended that Mr G transfer his 
BSPS pension to a Prudential Retirement account and invest into the PruFund Growth Fund. 
Mr Gs objectives were recorded as being:
To retire when you reach age 60.
To achieve retirement income in your own right throughout your retirement totalling
£2,000 net per month.
To have the facility to take a flexible income in retirement.
To leave any unused pension fund at the time of your death to [partner] who will then
leave any unused pension fund on her death to your extended family.
The CAL adviser noted that the required yields, in my opinion, are extremely 
unachievable and it is possible that your eventual pension may be less under this route 
than if you transferred to the new BSPS. 
However, the adviser recommended the transfer due to Mr Gs objectives for the transfer:I am happy to recommend that you transfer your benefits  based on your current 
circumstances and retirement plans and your desire to leave a lump sum death benefit, even 
though the results of the Transfer Value Analysis System (TVAS) report would suggest that 
a transfer may not be the best option when comparing like for like benefits.
The benefits available under the BSPS and PPF schemes, and the critical yields that would
be needed to match the PPF benefits were provided as follows:
Age Benefits as 
pensionReduced 
pension plus 
PCLSPCLS
BSPS 65 £30,342 £20,109 £134,060
BSPS 60 £24,881 £17,081 £113,875
PPF 65 £24,738 £19,045 £126,687
PPF 60 £20,860 £16,599 £110,423
Critical yield (to 
match the 
PPF)65 4.15% 3.73%
Critical yield (to 
match the 
PPF)60 5.49% 4.91%
A transfer to a stakeholder plan was discounted as it would not allow the funds to be
invested in the recommended fund with Prudential, and flexi access drawdown was not
available in a stakeholder plan.
The charges that would be due after the transfer were shown as:
Annual fund charge 0.65%
Annual product charge 0.30%
Annual adviser charge of 0.5%
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) of 20 October 2017 provided the following information
on the critical yields that would be required of the transferred funds to provide the same
benefits as the BSPS:
PPP Age Benefits as pension Reduced pension 
plus PCLS
Critical yield 65 7.73% 6.12%
Hurdle rate 65 3.39% 2.36%
Age drawdown funds 
depleted at medium 
rate of return65 81 84
PPP Age Benefits as pension Reduced pension 
plus PCLS
Critical yield 60 11.05% 8.55%
Hurdles rate 60 3.59% 2.07%
Age drawdown funds 
depleted at medium 
rate of return60 79 81
Mr G accepted CALs recommendation and the transfer took place on 19 October
2017. The amount transferred was £513,885.Mr G complained to CAL through his representative, raising concerns as hed received a 
letter from the FCA and was concerned he may have been mis-sold.
In its final response of 22 December 2022 CAL rejected the complaint, saying in summary 
that the transfer was suitable for Mr Gs circumstances at the time and matched his 
objectives.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr G referred the matter to this service.
Having considered the complaint, our investigator thought that it should be upheld. She said 
the following in summary:
The regulators guidance, when considering a transfer of defined benefits, was that it 
should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests. CAL confirmed in the suitability report that it took 
this into account.
Mr G was recorded as having concerns about the BSPS. But even if this was the 
case, these concerns should have been appropriately managed by CAL. Mr G was 
relying upon CAL for balanced information and advice.
The death benefits within the scheme had been underplayed  they were guaranteed 
and escalating. His partner would have received this for life.
The drawdown fund was reliant upon investment growth, and was estimated to run 
out between 79 and 84. But if investment returns were lower than forecast, this would 
happen sooner, with there then being no unused pension fund to leave to his 
partner/family in the event of his death.
Mr G could have achieved his income objectives  and any flexibility he required - by 
remaining in the scheme and accessing the tax free cash, his defined contribution 
fund and the scheme income. And so the different format of death benefits wouldnt 
have justified the transfer.
The advice had been after the regulator had given instructions in final guidance 
FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future discount rates for complaints 
about transfers which were being upheld. Prior to that, this service was publishing 
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates. 
Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.
The critical yield to match the scheme benefits (taking the PCLS) at age 60 was 
8.55%. The discount rate to that age was 3.7% and, taking into account Mr Gs 
attitude to risk, along with the regulators low, mid and high rate growth projections 
(2%/5%/8%) it was unlikely that the scheme benefits could be bettered through 
transferring. This was also noted by CAL within its suitability report.
Mr G had been assessed as having a balanced attitude to risk, but the answers hed 
given in the risk profiling exercise seemed to indicate a preference for the security of 
his pension funds. He was therefore more likely than not to have had a cautious risk 
attitude. He was an inexperienced investor and may not have understood the type of risk which would be required to try to achieve the required returns to match the 
scheme benefits.
The investigator recommended that CAL undertake a loss calculation in accordance
with the regulators guidance (FG 17/9) for such complaints  and on the basis that Mr G
would have opted to join the BSPS 2.
The investigator set out the manner of paying redress, in line with policy statement PS22/13, 
and as set out in DISP App 4.
This said that redress should be paid to Mr G as a lump sum, with information as to how his 
defined contribution plan might be augmented with that amount. CAL could make a notional 
deduction from the amount for the (assumed basic rate) income tax he would have paid on 
the pension benefits.
Mr G accepted the investigators findings. CAL hasnt made any comment on them.
The (new) investigator then wrote to both parties to confirm that the FCA had developed a 
BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate redress for cases which were included in the 
BSPS consumer redress scheme. But, he said, the FCA was also encouraging businesses 
to use the calculator for non-scheme cases.
The investigator further said that, when issuing my decision, I may require CAL to use the
FCAs BSPS-specific calculator to determine any redress due to Mr G.
The investigator said that, if either party didnt think it was appropriate to use the BSPS-
specific redress calculator in the circumstances of Mr Gs complaint, they should let him
know by 15 June 2023.
As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of B's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 deal with the obligations when giving a personal recommendation 
and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 specifically relate to a DB pension 
transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, CAL should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Gs 
best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The TVAS report which CAL was required to carry out by the regulator said that the 
critical yield - how much Mr Gs pension fund would need to grow by each year in 
order to provide the same benefits as his defined benefit scheme  was 8.55% to 
match the benefits hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 60. To match 
them at 65, the critical yield was 6.12%. 
Even given Mr Gs recorded balanced attitude to risk  although Im inclined to 
agree with the investigator that the answers provided by Mr G in the risk profiling 
exercise might reasonably indicate that he was more of a cautious investor - the 
discount rate of 3.7% to age 60, and the regulators middle projection rate for growth 
(5% pa), I think Mr G was more likely than not to receive pension benefits, from either 
age 60 or 65, of a lower value that those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS 
2 (or most likely the PPF) by transferring and investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
Early retirement was clearly appealing to Mr G, as it might reasonably be appealing 
to a great many people, but as set out by the investigator, on the basis that Mr G 
envisaged needing £24,000 pa from age 60, this would also have been possible by 
accessing the tax free cash and benefits which would have been available from the 
BSPS 2 (or the PPF) and his separate defined contribution accrual (flexibly if 
required). 
In terms of the alternative lump sum benefits a transfer offered to his partner and 
family, the priority here was to advise Mr G about what was best for his retirement. 
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer would likely be different if Mr G 
was drawing upon it, especially to a significant degree in the early years after 
retirement. It would also be dependent on investment performance, and so may not 
have provided the legacy that Mr G may have thought it would. 
My understanding is that Mr G wasnt married to his partner, and as set out in the 
suitability report, whether or not a spouses pension would be payable to her in the 
event of Mr Gs death would be at the discretion of the trustees. But there was also 
the five year guaranteed period of full payment after the pension had begun to be 
paid.
Mr Gs partner also had her own pension provision in the form of two paid up plans 
worth in the region of £60,000 and ongoing membership of a group personal pension 
(with a fund value of £15,000). She would also have her own state pension from age 67. She would further likely have benefitted from any unused value remaining in Mr 
Gs defined contribution accrual in the event of his death. 
And this of course presupposes that Mr G would remain unmarried - with another 10 
years until prospective retirement, Mr Gs circumstances could have changed. There 
was no recorded prospect of Mr G marrying at the time of the advice, and so I 
havent factored this specifically into the suitability assessment, but given the number 
of years to retirement, and the benefits to be gained by retirement age for Mr G (or 
rather a spouse) if indeed he did marry, I think its worth noting that this cant 
necessarily be ruled out as a possibility. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr G. There was no identified need for a 
lump sum, given Mr Gs and his partners likely situation (married or unmarried) in 
retirement. 
My view is that CAL shouldnt have encouraged Mr G to prioritise the potential for 
alternative death benefits through a PPP over his own security in retirement.
I also think Mr Gs desire for control over how his pension was invested was likely 
overstated. As with the investigator, I cant see that he had an interest in managing, 
or the knowledge to be able to do so, his pension funds on his own. Given his 
balanced (or likely more cautious) risk attitude and lack of other experience I dont 
think that this was likely a genuine objective for Mr G  it was simply a consequence 
of transferring away from his defined benefit scheme.
Mr G may nevertheless have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had 
handled his pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was CALs role to 
objectively address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed 
toward the BSPS 2 being established. But even if not, the PPF would still provide Mr 
G with guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free cash. Mr G was 
unlikely to improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as 
concerning as he might have thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about 
this meant that transferring was in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons as to why it was clearly in Mr Gs best interest to 
relinquish his defined benefits and transfer them to a PPP. And I also havent seen anything 
to persuade me that Mr G would have insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in 
the defined benefit scheme. 
So, as with the investigator, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr G received 
from CAL was unsuitable.
Putting things right
As set out in the investigators further comments relating to the BSPS-specific redress 
calculator, I consider that it would be appropriate to use that calculator here, given the 
BSPS-specific circumstances.A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr G, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice.
In terms of the option Mr G would have chosen, had he been suitably advised, Ive noted 
that there would be a 10% reduction in the starting pension entitlement within the PPF, 
whereas the BSPS 2 wouldnt cut the starting entitlement for deferred members.
Regarding death benefits, under the BPSP 2 the spouses pension would be set at 50% of 
Mr Gs pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was 
taken at retirement. But as Mr G was single at the time, and unless he had undisclosed 
plans to marry, I dont think this particular enhancement over the PPF benefits would have 
had much resonance for him at that time.
The reduction for early retirement under the PPF was lower and the commutation factors for 
the tax free cash entitlement were also slightly more favourable. And so, on the basis of 
prospective early retirement, both the starting income and the tax free cash would likely have 
been higher with the PPF.
Mr G intended to retire at 60, and indeed, as set out above, it seemed likely that he would be 
able to do so on the basis of his anticipated income requirement and the benefits which 
would be payable from all sources of pension provision. 
And so this would have been a point which required careful consideration when weighing up 
whether he should opt for the BSPS 2 or remain in the BSPS with a likely subsequent move 
into the PPF. Given what Ive noted above, I consider Mr G would more likely than not have 
remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the PPF if suitable advice 
had been given.
Cambrian Associates Limited must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy 
statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
Cambrian Associates Limited should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to 
calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr G and our 
service upon completion of the calculation.
As Mr G intends to retire at 60, compensation should be based on a calculation to that age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Gs
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, Cambrian Associates Limited should:
calculate and offer Mr G redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr G before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment
their defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr G receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr G accepts Cambrian Associates Limiteds offer to calculate how much of its 
redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr G 
for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of its redress 
augmented,
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Gs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr G as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, businesses may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Gs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Cambrian Associates Limited to pay Mr G the 
compensation amount as set out above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I would also 
recommend that Cambrian Associates Limited pays Mr G the balance.
If Mr G accepts this final decision, the award will be binding on Cambrian Associates 
Limited.
My recommendation wouldnt be binding on Cambrian Associates Limited. Further, its 
unlikely that Mr G could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Cambrian Associates Limited to 
undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 Philip Miller
Ombudsman