DRN-3168146
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt amend her credit file as theyd agreed to.
What happened
Ms H previously brought a complaint to this service about a Lloyds personal loan which 
resulted in Lloyds agreeing to amend the date of a default for that loan account to 
September 2013, meaning that from October 2019 onwards the default would no longer be 
present on Ms Hs credit file. However, in 2020, Ms H noticed that a default was showing on 
her credit file relating to the Lloyds loan account. Ms H wasnt happy about this, so she 
raised a complaint with this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and liaised with both Ms H and Lloyds 
about what had happened. Lloyds explained that they had amended the default as per the 
agreement reached on the previous complaint. Our investigator felt that Lloyds had been 
able to demonstrate this point satisfactorily, and they noted that Lloyds had sold the loan 
account debt to a third-party debt purchasing company in December 2019, and as such 
hadnt been responsible for any reporting that might have taken place following that date in 
regard to that loan account. So, they didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Ms wasnt satisfied with the view put forwards by our investigator, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Ms H to have discovered that a default 
was being reported on her credit file in relation to this loan account in 2020. But Lloyds have 
been able to demonstrate that they did amend the reporting of the default in line with what 
they agreed at the time of the previous complaint. 
Additionally, the credit file summary screenshots that Ms H has provided show that the 
default was applied in 2020, which was after the time that Lloyds had sold the account debt 
to the third-party debt purchasing company. As such, it seems most likely, on the balance of 
the information available, that it wasnt Lloyds who were responsible for reporting the default 
to Ms Hs credit file in 2020.
Im aware that Ms H feels that Lloyds sold her account to the debt purchasing company 
without notifying her that such a sale of debt was taking place. However, given that Ms H last 
made a payment to her loan account in 2014, it seems reasonable to me that Lloyds would 
sell the outstanding debt to a third-party debt purchasing company, and I note that a 
businesses right to sell an outstanding debt in such circumstances is a common feature of 
personal loan agreements. I also note that Ms H has confirmed that she was contacted by 
the third-party debt purchasing company, and so was aware that the debt had been sold to 
them, regardless of whether she received notice of this fact from Lloyds or not.
Ms H has also questioned whether there was a balance outstanding on the loan account. 
However, its clear from the loan repayment history that Lloyds have provided that there was 
a balance that remained outstanding on the account, and that the balance that Lloyds sold to 
the debt-purchasing company was the correct outstanding balance.
It's notable that Ms H, in her correspondence with this service, has raised complaint points 
that have already been considered and addressed in the prior complaint that has already 
been considered by this service. I must confirm therefore that Im unable to reconsider these 
aspects of Ms Hs complaint, and that this complaint is only in consideration of events that 
have taken place since the time that the previous complaint was dealt with  such as Ms H 
noticing that the default had been reapplied to her credit file in 2020.
Finally, its also notable that in her correspondence with this service, Ms H has made various 
references to acts of law. However, this service isnt a Court of Law, and doesnt operate as 
one. Rather, the remit of this service is to make an informal assessment of whether a fair 
outcome is considered to have occurred or not. And, as mentioned previously, Im satisfied 
that Lloyds have been able to successfully demonstrate that they did amend the default as 
per the agreement reached at the time of the previous complaint, and that they didnt reapply 
the default to Ms Hs credit file in 2020 as Ms H believes.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Lloyds have acted unfairly towards 
Ms H here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Lloyds to take any further action at this time.
I realise this wont be the outcome Me H was wanting, but I hope that shell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman