DRN-3605801
The complaint
H, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt transfer its entire balance 
when it switched its account and also applied an account charge.
What happened
H decided to switch its account to a different financial business. It says that HSBC agreed to 
waive a monthly account charge of £6.50 for its account. And that the full balance including 
interest wasnt transferred and this should have happened within seven days under the 
switch guarantee.
HSBC said it hadnt made any mistake. The charge was applied correctly and there was no 
further amount owing to H relating to the switch.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that HSBC had 
transferred the balance in Hs current account to the new account. H had a separate Money 
Manager account and interest of £0.66 had been credited after the switch date of 13 
December 2021. She understood that HSBC had now arranged to close the Money Manager 
account and send H the balance. H had said it spoke to HSBC on 7 December 2021 about 
the refund of the fee. But HSBC had no record of that call and the charge had been applied 
correctly.
H didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. It wasnt happy with our 
investigation and that HSBC hadnt kept a recording of its call. The money was transferred 
on 13 December 2021 but the amount in the savings account only later that day after 
numerous contacts with HSBC. H couldnt use the Money Manager account without a 
current account. The amounts involved here are irrelevant: the point is that HSBC made 
errors and weve taken its word over Hs.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 16 June 2022. I wasnt intending to uphold the complaint, 
but I wanted to explain my reasons for this and say a bit more about what happened. I set 
out below what I said.
The main point I made is that the switching service applies to current accounts. The Money 
Manager account was effectively a savings account. I didnt know what instructions Hs new 
bank had about the switch, but I could see that HSBC wrote to H on 3 December 2021 to 
confirm what it would be doing.
That letter referred only to the current account ending in numbers 5199 being switched and 
referred to the balance on that account. It stated Please also check the terms and conditions 
of any products you may continue to hold with us, as they may be affected. I didnt see that 
HSBC confirmed it would switch other than the current account.
Id seen evidence that the funds in the current account were sent at 08:57 on 13 December 
2021. There were substantial funds of over £90,000 in the Money Manager account. During 
the day these were transferred to the current account. And then sent to the new business at 
18:45. Thats entirely consistent with what H says about there needing to be contact about 
that money during the day. However, I cant see evidence that HSBC had previously been 
given any instructions by H about those funds and they werent in scope of the switch until in 
the current account.
That point applies to the operation of the Money Manager account too. There was no closure 
request. Interest of £0.66 was applied on 18 December 2021 in the usual way. There were 
no instructions to transfer that.
HSBC has told us that the Money Manager account cant be used for external payments. It 
can be accessed online, in branch or over the phone. The ability to access this online 
appeared to end when Hs main current account closed. It became then a basic savings 
account. 
The monthly fee of £6.50 was applied to the current account on 9 December 2021. It related 
to the period to 17 November 2021. H wasnt charged any fee for having its account from 
that date up to the date of closure. There is no record of any call with H about this. The fee 
as our investigator said was due under the terms and conditions. Any refund would have 
been a gesture of goodwill. Even if I were to accept that a member of staff had offered to 
waive this and HSBC has now gone back on that I didnt think it would be reasonable for me 
to require HSBC to refund it when there wasnt any mistake with the account. In any event I 
didnt have evidence to support that the offer was made to refund it, and this is disputed by 
HSBC.
my provisional assessment
I concluded that HSBC responded to the switch request as required. That switch related only 
to the current account. It seems that a work around for the savings balance was found during 
the switch day. I didnt find that arose from any error by HSBC. The switch guarantee H 
refers to relates to current accounts. And the Money Manager account remained open and 
so interest wasnt accrued up to 13 December 2021 when the transfer was made. I knew H 
will remain dissatisfied with this and that a fee of £6.50 was still charged. Id explained what I 
thought about that and why.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither HSBC nor H had any further comments to make. So, I see no reason to depart from 
the conclusions of my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 Michael Crewe
Ombudsman