DRN-2393393
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about how Aviva Insurance Limited has handled a claim under their 
legal expenses insurance policy.
 
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Mr Ms policy started in January 2020 and he made a claim in May 2020 to cover the 
legal costs of an employment dispute. 
Aviva had concerns the dispute with his employer started before the policy was taken 
out or within the first 30 days of cover. 
Aviva asked for a copy of the grievance raised setting out the events giving rise to 
the claim, along with details of any previous legal expenses policies previously held. 
Mr M provided details saying the dispute didnt start until six weeks after his policy 
had been in place and when he made his grievance. He also said hed held various 
other legal expenses policies before, but he hadnt kept any of the paperwork. 
Aviva asked if Mr M could recall who he held his previous policy with and requested 
that he contact them for a duplicate schedule. It explained that the dispute appeared 
to arise from incidents dating back to 2019, and it needed to be satisfied that hed 
held continuous legal expenses insurance cover since that time. 
Mr M wasnt happy and complained saying Aviva hadnt provided a satisfactory 
service and that he wasnt getting the support he was entitled to under the policy. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint explaining she was satisfied it was fair 
for Aviva to request information to decide if a claim was covered under the policy 
before accepting it. And she didnt think Aviva had provided poor service. 
As Mr and Mrs M dont agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy covers certain employment disputes but not disputes which commenced 
before or within the first 30 days of this cover starting unless you had a similar policy which 
finished immediately before this cover began. 
And it excludes any claim we reasonably believe you knew was likely to happen when you 
took out this insurance, e.g. where you were already in a disciplinary process at work before 
taking out this policy, which then led to you making a claim for unfair dismissal.
Its appropriate and fair that Aviva fully considers a claim made before accepting it, and that 
may require certain information to be sent. We dont think this is unreasonable and often the 
claimant has relevant information to provide. Im satisfied Aviva acted fairly by requesting 
further information from Mr and Mrs M. 
Mr M raised his grievance shortly after of the 30-day policy waiting period expiry, so I dont 
think its unreasonable for Aviva to want to see information to ensure that the dispute wasnt 
ongoing prior to that date. Its common for grievances to be raised after a series of incidents 
have taken place. So, Aviva need to know when the dispute arose, rather than the date on 
which a grievance was raised. 
The relevance of previous polices held by Mr M that Aviva asked is that with continuous 
legal expenses cover, he wouldnt be subjected to the 30-day waiting period. As Mr M said 
he had held policies, but no longer held the details of it, Avivas suggestion he contact his 
previous insurer for a copy of the policy schedule was eminently reasonable given the 
circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr M feels that Aviva prevented him from accessing the policy cover, but Im 
satisfied that Aviva carried out the necessary checks to determine if cover was available for 
the claim. As Mr M didnt provide the requested information, Aviva hasnt been able to 
complete its assessment and so it cant confirm if the claim can be accepted or not. 
I havent identified any material failings with the service Aviva provided. Aviva dealt with all 
correspondence promptly and set out clearly to Mr M what it required and why. Aviva 
requested information wholly relevant to its assessment of the claim submitted. The fact that 
information hasnt been provided has led to the outcome Aviva has given. Im not persuaded 
Aviva has acted unfairly.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman