DRN-3176004
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited wanted him to make two separate claims on 
his motor insurance policy to have repairs made to his car.
 
What happened
Mr M said his cars bumper was damaged in an incident. He also found that there was water 
ingress and a small dent in the tailgate. Aviva said the two items werent caused at the same 
time. It said Mr M would need to make two claims and so pay his policy excess twice. Mr M 
was unhappy with this. He wants his car repaired and compensation for its depreciation in 
value.  
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She saw that 
Avivas repairer said that the damage to the bumper hadnt affected any other areas of the 
car. He said the water ingress was from a separate area. And so she thought that Aviva was 
justified in saying that the damage had been caused by two separate events and therefore 
Mr M would need to make two claims for the repairs. 
Mr M replied that he thought a single impact could have caused both areas of damage. He 
said they were eighteen inches apart. He thought Aviva hadnt shown that they werent 
caused by one incident. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr M feels frustrated that Aviva wants him to make two separate 
claims for the damage to his car. This will mean that he has a further claim on his record, 
and he will have to pay his policy excess twice. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. And I think the matter turns on 
whether or not it has been established that the damage was caused by the same incident. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
Looking at the sequence of events, Mr M said he noticed the damage to his cars bumper 
after he noted the water ingress. He initially thought the problem may have been caused by 
a leak in the windscreen, but this wasnt established. He didnt recall any incidents and so 
presumed that someone had hit his car and then driven away. He firstly reported the dent to 
the bumper and later added the dent to the tailgate when he noticed this.
Avivas repairer said that the water ingress was at the rear of the roof. He took off the cars 
bumper and said the damage to the bumper hadnt transferred to other areas of the car. 
Aviva concluded from this that there was no connection between the areas of damage. 
I can see that Mr M thinks that the proximity of the two areas means that they could have 
been caused at the same time. But I think its reasonable for Aviva to rely on the expert 
testimony of its repairer. I cant see that there is any further expert independent evidence for 
it to consider. So I think Aviva considered all the available evidence and justified its decision 
to treat the damage as two claims.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman