DRN-2235361
The complaint
Mrs T and Mr T have complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs decision to 
reject a claim they made under their touring caravan insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2020 Mrs T reported to RSA that their caravan had been broken into. Some items 
were stolen and so they made a claim under their policy. 
RSA rejected the claim as it said there were no signs of a violent or forcible entry. The policy 
said this needed to be evident in order to consider a theft claim. 
Mrs T told RSA that several caravans on the same site had been broken into and hardly any 
had shown signs of forcible entry. She suggested the thieves had been able to use a pass 
key which could constitute a forced entry. 
Our investigator initially recommended the complaint be upheld. RSA disagreed, but agreed 
to obtain a copy of the police report to see if it gave any insight as to the break in. The police 
report simply confirmed there were no signs of forced entry. 
Mrs T had provided a report provided by a representative of the site. This said that 21 
caravans had been broken into via their doors. But the report didnt confirm that no damage 
had been caused in the process. 
RSA said that it insured other caravans on the site at the time of the event and these 
showed signs of forced entry. So RSA said that it was more likely that Mr and Mrs Ts 
caravan wasnt locked.
Our investigator concluded;
Whilst you described the routine you have in place to ensure that everything is 
secure before you leave your caravan Im afraid that with nothing to confirm that 
other caravans were entered without damage and with no evidence of force being 
used to enter your caravan, I think this is a reasonable conclusion to reach, so I cant 
ask RSA to pay your claim.
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree and would like an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The exclusion RSA has relied on to decline Mr and Mrs Ts claim says:
We will not pay for .theft of equipment when the Caravan has been left 
unoccupied unless there has been violent or forcible entry
I think the exclusion is clearly worded under Mr and Mrs Ts policy with RSA. So I think RSA 
did enough to explain that it wouldnt meet Mr and Mrs Ts claim if the circumstances fell 
under the exclusion. 
The police report is based on information Mr T provided when he reported the theft to them 
in January 2020. They wrote that entry to the caravan had been gained by unknown means 
as there were no signs of force being used. 
The incident report provided by the site manager reported; 21 caravans broken into via their 
doors and entered.
Ive carefully considered all of the available evidence and Ive read Mr and Mrs Ts account 
of the steps they follow when they leave the caravan to show that they make sure it is 
locked. But taking everything into account, I cant safely conclude that RSA unreasonably 
rejected their claim. As there was no evidence of a violent or forcible entry  and no 
persuasive evidence to show that another method was used which would qualify as such, I 
dont think their claim is covered under the policy.
I understand how disappointed Mr and Mrs T will be with my decision. But from the 
information available, I think RSA acted in a fair way and in line with the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman