DRN-1304614
The complaint
Mr R and Miss C have complained about poor service from Leeds Building Society (LBS) 
during the course of their mortgage application. Mr R has dealt with the complaint 
throughout. To settle the complaint, they want LBS to compensate them for the considerable 
stress and upset they say they have been caused.
What happened
Whats happened really isnt in dispute here, because LBS has upheld the complaint. The 
only issue in dispute is the level of compensation that should be paid for LBSs errors. 
For this reason, I will summarise briefly what led to the complaint being brought. The history 
of the matter is set out in substantial detail in the correspondence between the parties and 
the investigator and on the complaint form  so I wont repeat all the detail here, in order to 
ensure that nothing in this decision could lead to Mr R or Miss C being identified.
Mr R and Miss C had a shared ownership property which they originally bought with a 40% 
equity share, paying rent to a housing association on the remaining 60%. They decided to 
purchase the remaining equity share and, as their existing mortgage was already with LBS, 
Mr R and Miss C went back to LBS for their new mortgage. There was a deadline to 
complete the transaction by 9 October 2019.
Before applying to LBS, Mr R and Miss C put their credit in order. Mr Rs parents paid off a 
car loan, and Mr R and Miss C paid off finance for furniture and two credit cards. As Mr R 
had had a recent pay increase, they felt they were in a good position to be able to buy the 
remaining 60% equity share.
Mr R and Miss C made an initial inquiry in June 2019 about a mortgage and were told it 
would be affordable. But by the time they came to apply for the mortgage in mid-July 2019, 
LBSs lending criteria had changed. It was necessary to change the length of the mortgage 
term in order for the application to be accepted. After that, as the application was proceeding 
through the underwriting stage, Mr R had a number of questions for his mortgage adviser, 
and was unhappy that he wasnt always available to speak to him when he called.
After the valuation had been carried, out, the surveyors reported total monthly expenses of 
£135 per month for ground rent and service charges, which was higher than the figure of 
£115 given in the application. Mr R made various telephone calls to LBS to try to clarify this, 
when he spoke to several different staff members. The level of service charges and ground 
rent would affect affordability and, in turn, the maximum amount that LBS could lend so, 
understandably, Mr R was concerned about this.
There was a large amount of discussion with Mr R about affordability (detailed at length in 
the complaint form and in LBSs final response letter) and what needed to be done in order 
for the mortgage to be approved. On 31 August 2019, after further payslips for Miss C were 
submitted showing income that was higher than originally stated, the application was 
approved and the mortgage offer was issued that same day. The purchase of the remaining 
equity share was completed on 19 September 2019.
Mr R and Miss C complained to LBS about poor customer service. LBS acknowledged it 
might have done better and offered compensation of £175, which Mr R and Miss C rejected. 
They brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where an investigator 
looked at what had happened.
After reviewing everything that had happened, the investigator agreed LBSs customer 
service had fallen below the standard expected at times during the transaction. But overall 
he thought £175 was fair compensation for the trouble and upset to which Mr R and Miss C 
had been put.
Mr R and Miss C didnt accept the investigators findings. Mr R says that the whole point of 
his complaint is that he wants every single call he made (about 40 phone calls) listened to, 
rather than just those we consider to be relevant. Mr R says that the offer of £175 is 
insufficient for the considerable stress, upset and inconvenience he suffered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons.
Mr R says he wants all calls listened to. I must explain that its up to us to determine what 
evidence we need in order to investigate a complaint. We are unable to allow either a 
consumer or the business being complained about to dictate to us how we investigate a 
complaint. If this was to happen, it would compromise our independence and impartiality. 
But I must reassure Mr R that Im satisfied I dont need to listen to all the calls. Thats 
because, from reading the complaint form, I see that Mr R has set out in great detail all his 
conversations with LBS. Furthermore, LBS also provided information about the relevant calls 
in its final response letter. And LBS hasnt disputed that its customer service fell short on 
occasion. Because LBS has accepted it was at fault, the only issue I need to decide is the 
level of compensation thats appropriate to put things right.
Its very clear to me from what Mr R said on the complaint form that he feels very offended 
and greatly aggrieved by what happened during the application process when he wasnt able 
to speak to the person he wanted to, and when he felt his concerns werent being addressed 
or that LBS didnt value him as a customer. I confirm Ive taken note of everything hes said.
I dont underestimate Mr Rs strength of feeling and I acknowledge that he became 
increasingly upset throughout the process when he thought the mortgage might not be 
approved. Mr R also felt undervalued as a customer, particularly when specific staff 
members werent available to speak to him. 
But I must explain that, in a busy branch where advisers have scheduled appointments 
throughout the day, its not always possible to speak to the adviser immediately. I note that 
Mr R was phoning the service desk several times a day to try to get the application 
expedited, and was told on one occasion (incorrectly) that hed have to speak to the mortgage adviser about proceeding with the maximum loan. LBS has acknowledged this 
was incorrect and that the application could have been  progressed during the call.
I also note that it was explained to Mr R that he could put his questions via email. I dont 
think this was unreasonable, given that Mr R hadnt been able to speak to his mortgage 
adviser when he wanted to, and that his queries to the service desk couldnt be answered to 
his satisfaction.
I understand how frustrating it must have been when, after being told in June 2019 that 
affordability wouldnt be a problem, Mr R and Miss C found out just a month later that more 
stringent affordability checks were now in place. LBS is entitled to change its lending criteria 
as it thinks fit. This is something decided at corporate level and is outside the control of staff 
in LBSs branches. 
Information about changes in lending criteria is not usually cascaded down to branch staff 
until the day it comes into effect, and so I dont find the adviser to have been at fault if he 
initially thought the application would be affordable in June 2019.
I dont think the application took longer than expected  It was submitted in mid-July and the 
mortgage offer was issued on 31 August 2019. This is about the length of time I would have 
expected it to take, and was well within the time limit for completing the purchase of the 
additional equity share.
Im glad to note LBS has acknowledged its customer service could have been better at 
times. I agree LBS could have done better. I think from the questions Mr R was asking 
during the process, it would, or should, have been obvious to staff at LBS that Mr R didnt 
understand how the underwriting process worked and so he didnt appreciate that calling 
multiple times a day wouldnt make things happen more quickly. I think this could have been 
explained to Mr R, so that he didnt waste time and energy on those calls. 
I also note that Mr R was given incorrect information at one stage about who he would need 
to contact to proceed with the maximum loan amount, rather than being told he could 
progress the matter there and then. So overall I think there were some customer service 
failings, but not to the extent Mr R has claimed.
Im satisfied a payment of compensation for trouble and upset is due to Mr R and Miss C. 
Ive looked at the timescale for the application, and what happened. Having done so, Im 
satisfied that £175 is fair and reasonable, and proportionate to the errors made by LBS and 
the length of time it took from application stage to the date when the mortgage offer was 
issued.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, because Im satisfied the 
compensation offered by Leeds Building Society of £175 for distress and inconvenience is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. I make no other order or award and 
simply leave it to Mr R and Miss C to decide if they want to accept the £175 in full and final 
settlement of their complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman