DRN-2016601
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund him £260 after a cash machine failed to 
dispense this amount to him.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr B tried to make two cash machine withdrawals from his Santander 
account. Mr B wanted to withdraw £260 from his Santander account to buy a present for his 
daughter. 
Mr B says he first tried to withdraw £100 but the cash machine made a funny noise and then 
displayed an error message on the screen. He says he didnt receive any of the money. Mr B 
says he then attempted a second withdrawal and requested £160 and that these funds 
werent dispensed either and the machine displayed an error message again. 
Mr B told Santander that he hadnt received any money but £260 had been debited from his 
account. The bank looked into Mr Bs complaint and said the evidence showed there was no 
discrepancy when they reviewed the information for the cash machine that day. And that the 
money was dispensed. Mr B was unhappy with this outcome and brought his complaint to 
this service where one of our investigators looked into things for him. 
The investigator reviewed the evidence provided by Santander and found that the 
information from the bank supported that the money was dispensed when Mr B requested it. 
So, he didnt think itd be fair to ask Santander to refund Mr B £260. Mr B disagreed so the 
case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking Santander to give Mr B the £260 he wants here. Ill 
explain why.
When someone tells us they didnt get the money they requested from a cash machine, we 
look at the evidence the bank provides. This includes information about whether the cash 
machine  where the disputed transaction took place  had the money it was expected to 
have in it at the end of the period under review. Essentially did it balance or was there more 
money in it than expected. If the latter is the case, this could suggest a customer didnt get 
the money they requested. 
Santander has provided evidence to show that the machine Mr B used balanced and there 
were no discrepancies. If there had been a malfunction with Mr Bs withdrawal, Id have 
expected there to be considerably more in the machine. But there wasnt a surplus of £260 
which I would expect to see if the money hadnt been dispensed properly.
Ive also looked at information Santander provided about the machines purge bin. As the 
investigator explained, a purge bin would hold funds that are retracted into the cash 
machine, for example when notes are not taken in time by a customer. The information 
shows there was £200 in the purge bin. But Ive also kept in mind that Mr B says he didnt 
receive any money from the machine. So, I cant say the £200 relates to Mr Bs transactions.
 
Mr B says that when he tried to withdraw cash from the machine it made a funny noise and 
displayed an error message after each transaction. So, Ive reviewed the journal roll of the 
cash machine Mr B used which provides details of Mr Bs two transaction and whether there 
were any errors. Having done so, I have bad news for Mr B. This does show two amounts of 
£100 and £160 were dispensed from the cash machine Mr B used. There is also nothing to 
show the cash machine wasnt operating correctly. And after each of Mr Bs transactions a 
Santander farewell message was displayed on the screen. And not an error message. So, 
having considered the matter carefully, and recognising this will be disappointing for Mr B, I 
think it more likely the machine was working correctly and that it dispensed the £260.
I also find it unlikely that Mr B would attempt to use the same cash machine on a second 
occasion and request a higher amount  if as hes said the machine didnt dispense any 
cash to him the first time. And had made a noise which suggested to him it wasnt working 
properly. So, when I weigh everything up, having considered all the evidence, I dont think it 
would be fair to ask Santander to reimburse Mr B.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Bs complaint against 
Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman