DRN-1835549
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is that they say that in 2018 they were mis-sold an equity release 
mortgage by Key Retirement Solutions Limited (Key). Mr and Mrs M say that Key should 
have advised them to take out a standard interest-only mortgage instead. They have now 
arranged this, but would like Key to reimburse them for their out-of-pocket expenses.
What happened
I will summarise what happened briefly. There are two reasons for this; the first is that the 
details are all set out in detail in the correspondence between the parties and in the 
investigators letter dated 5 May 2020 in which he set out his findings on the complaint. The 
second is that it is important that I dont include in this decision any information which might 
lead to Mr and Mrs M being identified.
Briefly, what happened is that in 2018 Mr and Mrs M contacted Key after seeing advertising 
for equity release mortgages. They had two appointments with Keys advisor, one on 31 May 
2018 and a second meeting on 23 July 2018, when a recommendation was made for an 
equity release mortgage. 
At the time of the application Mr and Mrs M were 60 and 61. They had an existing mortgage 
of £34,000. In total they borrowed £48,000, £2,000 of which was for fees, £1,000 for the cost 
of setting up a Power of Attorney, and the remainder for savings. In common with this type of 
mortgage, no repayments were due; instead, interest at 5.70% per annum rolled up over the 
term of the loan. 
However, the loan allowed for payments to be made, if Mr and Mrs M wanted to do so, up to 
12% of the initial loan amount within any 12-month period. This meant they could pay up to 
£5,760 per annum without incurring an early repayment charge (ERC).
The loan was repayable in full when the last surviving borrower died or went into long-term 
care. If the loan was repaid before that, an ERC would be payable. Details of how the ERC 
would be calculated were set out in the Key Facts Illustration (KFI).
Mr and Mrs M decided to go ahead with it, the application was approved by the lender and, 
after Mr and Mrs M had taken advice from their own solicitors, the mortgage completed at 
the end of August 2018.
In April 2019 Mr and Mrs M complained to Key that they had been mis-advised to take out 
the equity release mortgage, because they thought they were too young. They had since 
learned  after seeing another financial adviser  that they could have taken out a standard 
interest-only mortgage, but this was never suggested to them.
In September 2019 Mr and Mrs M repaid their equity release mortgage. They did so by 
taking out an interest-only mortgage over a seven-year term. The repayment vehicle for this 
mortgage is stated in the mortgage offer as being sale of the property.
Key didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. It was satisfied that the advisors 
recommendation was suitable based on the information Mr and Mrs M had provided about 
their circumstances, needs and wishes.
Dissatisfied with Keys response, Mr and Mrs M contacted the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at the complaint ,but he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
was satisfied the recommendation was suitable.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the investigators findings and so the complaint has been 
referred to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I have disappointing news for Mr and Mrs M; Im not upholding 
their complaint. These are my reasons.
The basis of the complaint is that Mr and Mrs M say that, rather than an equity release 
mortgage, Key should have advised them to take out a standard interest-only mortgage. Ive 
noted from the KFI that Key was providing advice only on equity release mortgages  and it 
was on this basis that Mr and Mrs M approached Key after seeing Keys advertisement for 
equity release mortgages.
Mr and Mrs M were not too young for this type of mortgage; generally these are available to 
customers aged 55 and over. I note that the advisor recommended waiting until Mr M turned 
60 before the application was progressed (which is what happened), as this offered better 
options. But Mr and Mrs M met the age criteria for an equity release mortgage.
Ive looked at what was recorded by the advisor during the fact find  which is information he 
was provided with by Mr and Mrs M. This information is also reflected in the letter of 
recommendation dated 23 July 2018. The fact find is a contemporaneous document  which 
means it was compiled at the time, recording what the advisor was told by Mr and Mrs M. 
Given this, I am entitled to treat it as an accurate record of what was discussed.
The fact find shows that Mr and Mrs M had income of £3,850 per month and outgoings of 
£3,600. Their repayment mortgage was costing them £620 per month and its recorded in 
the fact find that Mr and Mrs M did not want to have the commitment of monthly instalments. 
Instead, they wanted to keep their disposal income for holidays and home improvements. Mr 
and Mrs M were also conscious of the fact that when one of them passed away, the 
reduction in pension income would make their existing repayment mortgage difficult to 
afford.
The adviser suggested extending the mortgage term with their existing lender, but this 
wasnt something Mr and Mrs M wanted, as it is recorded that they didnt want monthly 
payments. Instead, the flexibility of being able to make payments as and when they were 
able to was attractive to them.
Mr and Mrs M also confirmed theyd discussed their plans with family who approved their 
plans. (In this regard I understand their adult son who lived still lived at home was required 
by the lender to sign a document giving priority to the mortgage over any right of occupation 
he might have in the property.)Mr and Mrs M made it clear they didnt want to downsize, due to improvements theyd made 
to their property  but that they might consider this in the future if their circumstances 
changed.
Mr and Mrs M also say that Key didnt advise them about releasing funds from their home by 
way of a standard interest-only mortgage. However, the letter of recommendation is clear 
that Key is advising only on equity release mortgages. And I cannot ignore that Mr and 
Mrs M approached Key to provide advice on an equity release mortgage after seeing Keys 
advertising about this specific type of product. In the circumstances, I find the evidence 
persuasive that Mr and Mrs M were made aware that Key was only giving advice on equity 
release mortgages.
I note that the letter of recommendation states:  You did not feel that it was appropriate to 
negotiate a further arrangement with your existing mortgage provider because you did not 
wish to commit to further monthly repayments because if anything was to happen to either of 
you, your income would reduce and could make this type of loan unaffordable in the future. 
You confirmed that you were happy to proceed with my recommendations and repay your 
debts using your equity release because it was more important to meet all of your objectives 
also [sic]
Mr and Mrs M now dispute that they ever told the adviser that they didnt want any type of 
committed monthly repayment. However, the fact find and the letter of recommendation 
dated 23 July 2018 make specific reference to this point. If this detail wasnt correct, Id have 
expected Mr and Mrs M to have said something about it at the time they received the letter 
of recommendation. 
I think its more likely than not, given that Mr and Mrs M didnt correct this, that the 
information is accurate and is based on what the adviser was told by Mr and Mrs M. There 
would be no benefit to the adviser in making up something that wasnt true if he was then 
going to include that untrue information in the letter of recommendation given to Mr and 
Mrs M.
In all the circumstances, taking account of everything Mr and Mrs M have told us, I dont 
think the recommendation was unsuitable, given what Mr and Mrs M had said about their 
financial and personal circumstances at the time  and taking into account that Key had 
confirmed that it was advising only on equity release mortgages.
I see that in August 2019 Mr and Mrs M repaid the equity release mortgage by taking out an 
interest-only mortgage over a seven-year term, ending in August 2026. Mr and Mrs M told 
the lender (according to the mortgage offer) that the repayment vehicle will be a sale of the 
property in 2026. 
However, Mr and Mrs M have told us that at the end of the term they intend to arrange 
another interest-only mortgage. I hope they will be able to do so, as that will allow them to 
remain in their home, at least until the end of that product term. But this will, of course, be 
contingent on their circumstances at the time, and the products available in the mortgage 
market in 2026.
If Mr and Mrs M had retained the equity release mortgage, this would have run until the 
death of the last surviving borrower, or until they needed to go into long-term care, without 
the need to consider repayment in the foreseeable future or a sale of the property. I 
acknowledge Mr and Mrs M decided in 2019 that they wanted a mortgage that they will need 
to repay in 2026, rather than one with no end date. But that doesnt mean the mortgage 
recommendation made by Key in 2018 was unsuitable, given what Mr and Mrs M told Key 
about their circumstances and wishes at that time.In the circumstances, I can see no basis on which it would be fair or reasonable to order Key 
to pay the costs Mr and Mrs M incurred, either in taking out the equity release mortgage in 
2018, or in repaying it less than a year later.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman