DRN-3534859
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V are unhappy esure Insurance Limited declined a claim they made on their 
contents insurance policy for a television.
Mr V has primarily dealt with the claim and complaint, so Ill refer to him only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr V got in touch with esure following damage to his TV. It arranged for the TV to be 
collected and inspected. It said the damage had been caused by general wear and 
tear and component failure, rather than a one off impact. Mr V didnt think this was 
fair. He said the TV had been working up until it had accidentally fallen and hit a wall.
Our investigator thought esure had declined the claim fairly based on the evidence 
available. He also thought it had acted fairly when offering to return the TV and 
disposing of it when that offer wasnt taken up.
The policy covers accidental damage, which is defined to mean single, sudden, 
unexpected and physical damage. It doesnt cover wear and tear or anything which 
happens gradually over time.
The engineer who inspected the TV said there was a fault with the LCD panel which 
was normal failure and could not relate to impact. No other evidence has been 
provided about the cause of damage. Based on the engineers report, Im satisfied 
the damage is more likely the result of wear and tear and gradual deterioration than 
accidental damage as defined by the policy.
esure gave Mr V the opportunity for it to return the TV to him. And it told him it would 
dispose of the TV if he didnt ask for it to be returned by a certain date. He didnt ask 
for it to be returned. So Im satisfied esure treated him fairly on this point.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman
