DRN-2818803
The complaint
Mrs C complains that penalty charge notices issued on the car she hires under a hire 
agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) were paid by MBFS 
without her being notified or given the opportunity to appeal. These were then charged to her 
account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. 
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mrs C entered into a contract hire agreement with MBFS in February 2019. The 
agreement set out that Mrs C would be liable for any charges. 
Penalty charge notices were sent to MBFS for payment and I accepted that it 
followed its usual process in paying these promptly to avoid any further costs or 
action. I thought that this approach would usually be to the benefit of the hirer and I 
couldnt say that it acted outside of the terms and conditions. However, noting the 
unique circumstances of this complaint I didnt find that the approach taken by MBFS 
resulted in Mrs C being treated fairly.
Mrs C provided evidence to show that she had purchased the required parking 
tickets for her car on the days on which the penalty charge notices were issued. She 
made a mistake inputting her car registration details and so her actual registration 
details werent recorded as having a valid ticket and charges were raised. This 
mistake occurred on three occasions and I accepted Mrs Cs comments that had she 
been made aware of the first charge notice she would have checked her details and 
amended them accordingly. However, given the timing off the charges issued I noted 
that had Mrs C been contacted immediately by MBFS about this issue this would 
have been after the first two charges had been raised.
Mrs C wasnt given the opportunity to appeal the charges. The charge notices 
provided a right to appeal and said the appeal must be received in writing within 28 
days and that appeals wouldnt be accepted after payment had been made. Mrs C 
wasnt made aware of the charges at the time they were applied and then payment 
was made without her being notified so she wasnt able to appeal the charges. 
I couldnt say for certain whether Mrs Cs appeal would have been upheld but she 
had evidence of making the required payments for the relevant days and so I thought 
her appeal could have been successful.
I found the fairest solution in this specific case was for Mrs C to be refunded the 
charges she incurred arising from the penalty charge notices dated 15 October, 18 
October and 11 November.
Neither party provided any further information in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision my role isnt generally to comment on a business 
processes or systems but instead to decide whether a customer has been treated fairly. In 
this case I dont think this happened. As no further information was provided in response to 
my provisional decision my required outcome hasnt changed.
Therefore, as I have previously explained, I note the terms and conditions set out the Mrs C 
will need to pay MBFS for any charges it has been required to pay, and I have nothing to 
suggest that MBFS didnt follow it usual process. However, in this case, I think that Mrs C 
has been potentially disadvantaged by not being able to appeal the charges which is why I 
am upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should refund the charges it applied to 
Mrs Cs account regarding the three penalty charge notices.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman