DRN-2809607
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc, trading as Bank of Ireland (UK), 
unfairly applied an early repayment charge (ERC) when they repaid their buy to let 
mortgage. Theyd like Bank of Ireland to refund the ERC and pay compensation for their 
stress and time.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K repaid their buy to let mortgage with Bank of Ireland in March 2020. They were 
shocked to discover Bank of Ireland had applied an ERC about £3,800. Theyre also 
unhappy about the way Bank of Ireland dealt with their complaint.
Our investigator said Bank of Ireland was entitled to apply the ERC and hadnt treated Mr 
and Mrs K unfairly. While Bank of Ireland gave Mr and Mrs K incorrect information about the 
ERC being on annual statements, this was after theyd repaid the mortgage. The investigator 
said the £75 compensation paid by Bank of Ireland was fair. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs K took out a buy to let mortgage with Bank of Ireland in 2003, and a further 
advance in 2005. They took out a five-year fixed interest rate product in June 2015. An ERC 
applied if the mortgage was repaid on or before 30 June 2020. 
Mr and Mrs K repaid the mortgage in March 2020. I think Bank of Ireland was entitled, under 
the terms of the mortgage, to apply the ERC. The ERC was clearly set out in the mortgage 
offer and Mr and Mrs K agreed to it when they took out the product 
Mr and Mrs K say they shouldnt be expected to remember the product terms after nearly 
five years. Most likely they were given a copy of the mortgage offer and could have checked 
it for the terms they agreed to. If they werent sure about the terms  or couldnt find their 
copy of the mortgage offer  they could have asked Bank of Ireland for a copy or for more 
information before deciding whether to repay the mortgage.
I dont intend to require Bank of Ireland to refund the ERC or pay compensation to Mr and 
Mrs K. The ERC was clearly set out in the mortgage offer, which Mr and Mrs K agreed to. 
Mr K now says, in effect, that Bank of Ireland should have reminded him hed agreed to an 
ERC. But it didnt have to do this. I havent seen any evidence Mr and Mrs K were misled 
about the amount of the ERC or when it would apply. 
Mr and Mrs K raised specific concerns in their complaint, in summary:
The ERC should be set out on annual statements.
A copy of the redemption statement should be sent to borrowers as well as their 
solicitors.
After theyd repaid the mortgage, Bank of Irelands service was poor and they were given 
incorrect and inconsistent information, including about porting.
Mr and Mrs K took out a buy to let mortgage. The rules for buy to let mortgages are different 
to the rules on mortgage regulation for regulated residential mortgages. Bank of Ireland 
didnt have to set out the ERC on Mr and Mrs Ks annual statements.
Bank of Ireland sent redemption statements to Mr and Mrs Ks solicitor in February 2020 and 
in March 2020. The redemption statement sets out the amount of the ERC and says it 
applies if the mortgage is repaid before 30 June 2020. The statement asks the solicitor to 
ensure a copy is given to their client. If the solicitor didnt give a copy of the redemption 
statements to Mr and Mrs K, or check they were aware of the ERC, I dont think Bank of 
Ireland could have known this.
I understand that putting the ERC on statements or sending a copy of the redemption 
statement direct to Mr and Mrs K would have reminded them of the ERC. But this wasnt 
something Bank of Ireland was required to do. 
Mr and Mrs K say Bank of Ireland gave them incorrect and inconsistent information after 
theyd repaid the mortgage, including about porting, and made errors in its final response 
letters. 
When Mr K called Bank of Ireland it wrongly told him that its annual statements for buy to let 
mortgages set out ERCs. Bank of Ireland paid compensation of £75 for this. I think this is 
fair, in the circumstances.
The mortgage offer says the fixed rate product is portable, subject to conditions being met. 
Mr and Mrs K told our investigator they didnt intend to port the mortgage. If theyd wanted to 
do this Id have expected them to ask about porting before arranging their sale. When Mr K 
spoke to Bank of Ireland just after he repaid the mortgage he said he wasnt buying another 
property. On balance, I dont think Mr and Mrs K intended to port their mortgage product 
when they decided to sell their property. So any incorrect information they received about 
this didnt change the outcome here.
Mr and Mrs K point to errors in Bank of Irelands final response letters  for instance that it 
said they were re-mortgaging with another lender when this wasnt the case. 
As these events happened after Mr and Mrs K had repaid the mortgage, I cant see that they 
could have affected their decision to sell the property and repay the mortgage  which was 
the event that caused the ERC to be payable.
Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and so I cant look into Mr and Mrs Ks concerns 
about how Bank of Ireland dealt with their complaint.
I understand how frustrating it must be for Mr and Mrs K to pay the ERC when they could 
have avoided this by selling the property a few months later. But I dont think Bank of Ireland 
misled them about the ERC. I must also take into account that this mortgage was taken out 
for business purposes. Mr K says hes experienced in the industry and has a number of buy 
to let properties. I wouldnt expect Bank of Ireland to offer the same support to Mr and Mrs K 
as it would be required to offer to a customer with a residential mortgage. The ERC was clearly set out in the mortgage offer, and in the redemption statements. Bank 
of Ireland didnt have to send Mr and Mrs K reminders about the ERC, or send a copy of the 
redemption statement to them as well as to their solicitor. I dont think its fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances to require Bank of Ireland to refund the ERC.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman