DRN-3735480
The complaint
Mr F has complained about his car insurance broker Well Dunn Limited as he believes it 
mis-sold him a policy. 
What happened
Mr F arranged cover via Well Dunn for his car. He was told he would get a courtesy car. 
When he had an accident his insurer said there was no option for a courtesy car  the policy 
he had was for third-party, fire and theft only.
Mr F was then unable to work and he complained to Well Dunn. He said he had chosen this 
policy over others because hed been told he would be entitled to a courtesy car. Well Dunn 
initially refuted liability. But in a final response it accepted it had given Mr F wrong 
information when the policy was arranged. It said it would pay him for two weeks lost wages 
and £100 compensation. Whilst it was aware that Mr F was unable to work for longer than 
that, it felt, given hed been told immediately after the claim that he couldnt have a courtesy 
car, that the extent of its offer was fair. Mr F complained to us.
Our Investigator felt that Well Dunn had made a fair and reasonable resolution offer. So she 
didnt think it needed to do anything more to resolve Mr Fs complaint. Mr F asked for an 
Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this has been an upsetting circumstance for Mr F. But I think Well Dunn has 
made a fair and reasonable offer to make up for the error it made (which I note it has paid). 
Ive considered the conversations Mr F had with Well Dunn when deciding whether to accept 
the policy it was arranging. I know Mr F, at that time, had received another quote from a 
different insurer. Although the exact cover being offered hasnt been shown to me, I know 
that it was at a reduced cost from the policy Well Dunn arranged. So Ive thought about 
whether Well Dunn caused Mr F to have a financial loss in this respect. But I dont think it 
did. Having heard Mr Fs call with Well Dunn I think the advice he was given about a 
courtesy car was not the only deciding factor for him in choosing the cover provided via 
Well Dunn over the other quote hed obtained. In the conversation Mr F was told that the 
other policy hed obtained a quote for didnt include legal cover or afford any no claims 
bonus. I think these were also important factors for Mr F. So Im not persuaded that Mr F 
wouldve obtained that policy instead if Well Dunn hadnt misled him about the courtesy car. 
Further, whilst I accept that the courtesy car was an important aspect for Mr F, clearly the 
overall price for the cover was too. And Mr F was also clearly looking for third-party, fire and 
theft cover only. Which meant he wasnt looking for cover that would protect him against 
losses incurred in the event of an accident. And of the third-party type cover policies of which 
Im aware, none offer to provide the policyholder with a courtesy car if their car is damaged 
in an accident. That would only be available under comprehensive policies, which are more 
expensive, and only then if that insurer chooses to offer that cover. 
When policies do include the provision of a courtesy car when a car is damaged in an 
accident, that is usually only for the period the car is being repaired. Here, Mr Fs car was 
written-off, so it was never being repaired. In some limited cases, where a car is eventually 
written-off, a courtesy car might be provided for fourteen days. So the longest Mr F might 
have been able to have a courtesy car for, if he had been prepared to buy a more expensive, 
comprehensive policy, would have been fourteen days. In short, Mr Fs policy did not cover 
him for accidents and, even if he had taken comprehensive cover, in the circumstances 
here, Mr F likely wouldnt have been entitled to a courtesy car for more than fourteen days.
It is clear to me that Well Dunn failed Mr F by giving him misleading information. But it also  
seems to me that its error, in light of the resolution it has provided which included the sum of 
two weeks wages, didnt materially alter the position, in respect of the courtesy car, from 
that which Mr F would always have found himself in. 
In the circumstances, and given Mr F has had the benefit of the cover, I dont think it would 
be fair for me to make Well Dunn reimburse the policy premium. I also dont think it would be 
fair to make it reimburse Mr Fs lost earnings over a period exceeding two weeks/fourteen 
days. Ive explained why above. But I also note here that Mr Fs misunderstanding in this 
respect  created by Well Dunn  was corrected very soon after the accident. With the 
benefit of that corrected information, it was then up to Mr F to act as though he was uninured 
in respect of the courtesy car. So, whilst I understand that things were difficult for Mr F, he 
needed to make the best of the situation he was in. 
However, clearly Well Dunns misleading advice left Mr F in a position where he was 
expecting to get the courtesy car cover. Such that when he was told, shortly after the 
accident that this wasnt the case, he was caused upset and left in a difficult financial 
position. Well Dunn has offered and paid compensation for that. As well as reimbursing Mr F 
for two weeks lost earnings. I think that is fair and reasonable to make up for the loss of 
expectation Well Dunns misleading information, given when the policy was arranged, 
caused Mr F when his car was damaged in an accident. Therefore, with regret for the upset 
I know this will cause Mr F, Im not going to require Well Dunn to do anything more. 
My final decision
I dont make any award against Well Dunn Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman