The complaint
Miss B is unhappy CIS General Insurance Limited has turned down her claim under her car 
insurance policy for the theft of her car. She also thinks it has fabricated a policy number to 
avoid paying her claim.
What happened
Miss B notified CIS of the theft of her car in October 2019. She said it had been taken 
without lawful authority by the police.
CIS turned down Miss Bs claim for theft. It said her car hadnt been stolen, it had been 
seized by the police and this wasnt unlawful.
Unhappy with this decision, Miss B complained to CIS. She also complained CIS wrote to 
her using a different policy number from the one on her certificate of motor insurance. She 
says this has been fabricated to avoid paying her out.
When CIS didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint, she came to us. The investigator who looked at 
Miss Bs complaint didnt uphold it. He thought CIS had acted within the terms and 
conditions of Miss Bs policy in turning down her claim. And he didnt think CIS had 
fabricated a policy number.
Miss B doesnt agree and so her complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. I know this will disappoint her 
but I hope the reasons Im about to give help her to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
When looking at Miss Bs complaint, my role is to decide if CIS acted fairly and reasonably in 
turning down Miss Bs claim for theft. My starting point is Miss Bs car insurance policy. The 
policy document Ive seen says CIS will cover Miss B for the loss of her car caused by theft.
CIS says Miss Bs car hasnt been stolen but has been seized by the police. It says this is 
lawful and so isnt theft. 
In turning down Miss Bs claim, I can see CIS looked at the polices vehicle seizure notice. 
The seizure notice gives the registration number, make and model of the car that was 
seized. These details correspond to the details of the car on Miss Bs V5 document and on 
DRN-1270810her insurance policy. The seizure notice also gives the name of both the insurer (CIS) and 
the policyholder (Miss B) along with the car insurance policy number thats on Miss Bs 
certificate of motor insurance.
From internal records CIS has shown us, I can see CIS contacted the police about the 
seizure of Miss Bs car. The police told CIS the car was seized because it was being driven 
by a member of Miss Bs family who wasnt insured to drive and who didnt have a valid 
driving licence.
I think it was fair and reasonable of CIS to rely on the information Ive set out above to 
decide Miss Bs car had been lawfully seized by the police. And it follows from this that I 
think it was fair and reasonable, and in line with Miss Bs policy terms, for it to turn down her 
claim for theft.
I should say that, in looking at the information I have on Miss Bs complaint, there are 
discrepancies between whats in the polices vehicle seizure notice and whats in the 
covering letter it seems the police sent Miss B with the seizure notice. The police covering 
letter (which, curiously, pre-dates the seizure date) refers to a seizure date, a car registration 
and a seizing police officer that are different to those set out in the seizure notice in this 
complaint. 
I dont understand these discrepancies. I think this is something only the police could explain 
and so Miss B will need to contact them if shes still concerned. But these discrepancies 
dont change my findings in this complaint, since the details of the car that was seized match 
those of the car that was insured under Miss Bs car insurance policy.
Like our investigator, I think CIS has given a reasonable explanation of why there are two 
policy numbers associated with Miss Bs car insurance. One was created by the broker on its 
system when Miss B bought her policy. The other was created by CIS, as Miss Bs insurance 
underwriter, to identify her policy on its separate system. Ive seen no evidence that a policy 
number has been fabricated by CIS.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman