DRN-4183797
The complaint
Mr L, through a representative, says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday
Loans, irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr L took out two instalment loans from ELL. The first, approved on 2 October 2019, was for 
£1,250 over 18 months. The monthly repayments were £142.52 and the total repayable was
£2,565.36. The second loan was taken out on 7 July 2022 and was for £1,000 over 18 
months. The monthly repayments were £91.20 and the total repayable was £1,641.60. 
Mr L says he was already struggling to repay other debts and ELL ought to have done more 
thorough checks.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ls complaint in part. She said ELL completed proportionate
checks for both loan applications and made a fair lending decision for loan 1, but its checks 
showed loan 2 would not be affordable for Mr L. So it was wrong to approve loan 2.
ELL disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. It said if Mr Ls 
housing costs were shared on a pro-rata basis with his partner loan 2 was affordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when ELL lent to Mr L required it to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability
check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr L. In
other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr L.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend
to Mr L. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ls loan
applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable
way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did ELL make fair lending decisions?
did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see ELL asked for some information from Mr L before it approved the loans. It asked
for details of his income and checked this using recent bank statements for loan 1 and open 
banking data for loan 2. It estimated his living costs using national statistics and added a 
buffer to cover unexpected expenses. It also checked Mr Ls credit file to understand his 
existing monthly credit commitments and credit history each time. It asked about the purpose 
of the loans, Mr L said they were both for debt consolidation and car repairs. From these 
checks combined ELL concluded Mr L could afford to take on the loans as he would have 
£300.37 monthly disposable income left after loan 1 and £71.08 after loan 2.
I think these checks were proportionate for both loans. And based on the information it
gathered I think ELL made a fair lending decision for loan 1, but not for loan 2. Ill explain 
why.
Loan 1
ELLs checks showed Mr L could afford loan 1 on a pounds and pence basis and I have 
seen nothing to suggest the repayments might not be sustainable. At the time ELLs credit 
check showed he was up-to-date with all his active accounts. He did have some older 
adverse data on his credit file with two accounts that had defaulted over a year ago, but he 
was repaying these debts. I dont think there was a level of adverse data such that ELL 
ought to have declined Mr Ls application. There was also evidence Mr L had outstanding 
payday loans, but this loan was to settle that more expensive debt and would reduce his 
monthly commitments by about £110 to around 23% of his income which I find to be 
reasonable.
It follows I dont think ELL was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr L.
Loan 2
I have thought carefully about loan 2 as it left Mr L with little disposable income. I am 
satisfied it is fair for ELL to portion the household housing costs as it did. But I think the checks showed there was a high risk the loan would not be sustainably affordable for Mr L. 
ELL could see from the open banking data that Mr L was persistently reliant on his overdraft, 
typically only in credit for a few days after payday. He was also still using payday loans. The 
credit check showed he was in late arrears on an active loan and he had defaulted on an 
additional two credit accounts since loan 1. I think ELL ought to have realised it was likely  
Mr L would either need to borrow to repay or suffer some other type of financial harm as his 
finances were clearly already under pressure. 
So, overall, I dont think ELL made a fair lending decision. It follows I think ELL was wrong to 
give loan 2 to Mr L.
I havent seen any evidence that ELL acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way. 
Putting things right for loan 2
It is fair for Mr L to repay the capital he borrowed as he had the benefit of that money. But he 
has been charged interest and fees on a loan that should not have been given to him. 
So ELL should:
Refund all interest and charges applied to the loan.
If this results in Mr L having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).*
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then ELL should attempt to arrange an 
affordable payment plan with Mr L.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ls credit file regarding loan 2 once 
any outstanding capital balance is repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Mr L a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ls complaint in part. Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as 
Everyday Loans, must put things right as set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman