DRN-2937472
The complaint
Mrs S (via a representative) complains Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited 
(trading as Mutual) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mrs Ss complaint. Mutual did not agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold 
Mrs Ss complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings 
follow this and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mrs S was lent eight home collected loans between January 2011 and January 2017. Ive
included some of the information weve received about the loans from Mutual in the table
below.
Loan 
NumberLoan Amount Date Received Actual Repayment 
DateTerm 
(weeks)
1 £500 15/01/2011 15/08/2012 102
2 £200 19/01/2013 24/07/2013 26
3 £500 27/03/2013 18/12/2013 51
4 £300 21/12/2013 15/10/2014 51
5 £500 30/08/2014 05/08/2015 51
6 £400 06/12/2014 19/08/2015 51
7 £650 28/11/2015 23/11/2016 51
8 £400 21/01/2017 10/01/2018 51
Following a review of the merits of the complaint, the adjudicator didnt think there was
enough evidence to say Mutual was wrong to have granted loans 1 to 4. But he thought the
remaining four home collected loans (loans 5 to 8) shouldnt have been given because they
were unsustainable for Mrs S.
Mrs S appears to agree with the adjudicators assessment.
Mutual disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. Mutual has provided a comprehensive
response to the adjudicators assessment. Although Ive not listed everything here, I want to
reassure it that Ive read the submissions and Ive taken this into account when considering
what a fair outcome is for this case.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
As Mrs S doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Mutual wasnt wrong
to lend loans 1 to 4, it seems that lending is no longer in dispute, so I wont be making
a finding about it. So instead, this decision will focus on whether Mutual did anything wrong
when it lent loans 5 to 8.
Mutual has had other decisions from us which detail our approach to complaints of this
nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of this type
of credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues. I dont intend to go
into detail about that here. But a brief summary of this is below.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs S could
repay loans 5 to 8 in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest Mutual should have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Mrs S. These factors include:
Mrs S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs S. The loan payments being
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.
At the point loans 5 to 8 were lent, Mutual was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority,
who had set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are sustainable
if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting
other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a lender
realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their
repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Ss complaint.Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to Mrs S.
It also concerns our approach to repeat lending. We have responded to Mutual on these
issues in detail through other final decisions it has received, and the published decisions on
our website. So, Im not going deal with these points at length here.
I will say briefly that I consider it reasonable to describe loans 5 to 8 as high cost credit, as
does the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its
identified high cost credit portfolio. And while I note it has a longer term than, for example,
a payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And,
as such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not
said anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside
everything else in making my decision.
Loan 5
Mutual hasnt provided this service with any information about the types of checks it did, and
the results of these checks. The final response letter outlines what checks Mutual says it
wouldve carried out and it hasnt shown me that it did this for all of the loans and what its
checks may have shown it. The only information I do have concerns the income and
expenditure information for the final loan.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint because in their view, Mrs S was reliant on this
lending and shed been indebted for around 19 months (in this chain). But I dont agree, and
Ive explained why below.
Mrs S had been indebted to Mutual for 19 months, in this chain of lending, but in that time
she had only taken three previous loans. And, the repayments, based on what Mutual
wouldve likely seen, ought to have appeared affordable. The repayments Mrs S was
committing to making were relativity small. There is also, in my view, no evidence to suggest
that Mrs Ss indebtedness was increasing unreasonably or seemed harmful in any other
way.
I acknowledge that Mrs S had an overlapping loan, I dont think that on its own is sufficient
for me to be able to conclude that the loans, just based on the pattern of lending was harmful
for Mrs S.
Ive already explained above, that I dont have the information from Mutual about the income
and expenditure information Mrs S wouldve likely declared she had at the time. But, I dont
think, even if Mutual could provide this information to me, that Id consider that to be
sufficient to say a proportionate check had been carried out.
Mrs S had been indebted to Mutual for around 19 months, and she was coming back for her
joint largest loan to run for an additional 51 weeks. This loan also approved at the same time
as loan 4 was outstanding, although Mutual wouldve known (given the term of loan 4) that
the loan would be shortly repaid. Mrs Ss weekly repayments wouldve included the
remaining payments that were due for loan 4.
By loan 5, and for all future loans, I think Mutual needed to have a complete and accurate
understanding of Mrs Ss financial position. It couldve done this a number of ways. It
couldve asked for evidence of her income via a payslip and then asked for evidence of what
bills she had possibly, through her credit file or paper copies of them. Alternately, Mutual
couldve requested copies of Mrs S bank statements which wouldve given it an accurate
picture of her financial position, and wouldve highlighted any financial difficulties she may
have been having.Mutual didnt do this, so I dont think the checks were proportionate. But that isnt the end of
the matter. For me to be able to conclude that Mutual shouldnt have given this loan, I have
to be satisfied that not only did Mutual not carry out a proportionate check, by not carrying
out a proportionate check has this caused Mrs S a loss  that being the loan ought not to
have been approved.
However, Im not able to do that here, because Ive not been provided with any information
about Mrs S actual financial position at the time. In the absences of this information, I cant
conclude Mutual made an error when it approved this loan. Therefore, as it stands, Im
proposing not to uphold this complaint.
Loans 6  8
Again, I dont know what information Mutual collected from Mrs S  its likely her income and
expenditure was taken, but its not provided us with the figures. The only information I do
have is taken from the final response letter, where information about loan 8 was provided.
Based on that information Mutual wouldve thought loan 8 was affordable to Mrs S.
For the same reasons as Ive outlined above for loan 5, Mutual needed to be verifying her
income and expenditure. Mrs S was returning for further loans that was extending her
indebtedness, and so it wouldve been prudent of Mutual to establish whether these loans
were affordable for her. I dont have her bank statements or any other information that I can
use, so I cant say Mutual was wrong to lend these loans even though I dont think its checks
went far enough. So based solely, on whether the loans were affordable I cant uphold.
However, Ive also considered, that like the adjudicator had it reached the point where
Mutual ought to have realised that these loans were unsustainable or harmful to Mrs S.
based, on what Ive seen I dont think there were, and Ive outlined below why, in my view
this is the case.
So like loan 5, I dont think there was evidence that these loans were unsustainable for Mrs
S, in fact I think the opposite could be said. There are some small gaps between the loans,
so periods of time when Mrs S wasnt indebted to Mutual. Which I think demonstrates, in this
case, that she wasnt using these loans to fill a short-term hole in her finances.
In addition to the gaps, the actual loan amounts were decreasing as well. While loan 6 was
granted loan 5 was outstanding meaning there was capital due of around £900, but loan 7
was for £650 and loan 8 for £400. I therefore think its more likely that Mutual wouldve
thought Mrs S was reducing her need for these loans.
Overall I dont think the checks Mutual carried out are form loans 5  8 were proportionate,
and it needed to do more. But, Im not in a position to say what a proportionate check may
have shown Mutual, as I dont have copies of Mrs S bank statements or her credit file.
I also dont think it had reached the points, where Mutual wouldve realised these loans had
become unsustainable for Mrs S. Therefore, based on what Ive currently see Im intending
not to uphold the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Mrs Ss representatives acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision and said it would 
seek further information from Mrs S. However, the deadline for the provisional decision has 
passed and no further information or update has been received from her representative. Im 
therefore proceeding to issue the final decision in order to bring this matter to a close.  
Mutual also didnt provide this service with any further evidence or comments for me to 
consider. 
As no new information has been received, I see no reason to depart from the findings that I 
made in the provisional decision. I still dont think Mutual carried out proportionate checks for 
all of the lending, but as Ive not been provided with bank statements for example, I cant 
conclude Mutual made an error by lending to Mrs S. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding Mrs 
Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman