DRN-4480467
The complaint
Miss Ss complaint is about the service she received from The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS).
What happened
Miss S says that she was provided with bad service in regard to her bank card and that 
when she contacted RBS the information she received was incorrect. She says she had to 
make several calls and was told different things on each occasion and the incorrect 
information continued to be given while her complaint was being dealt with. Miss S says 
RBS didnt care that it had created a situation where her security was compromised.
Miss S says the service she received caused her stress and meant she spent weeks 
sending emails and letters and on calls trying to understand what had happened with her 
card.
RBS issued its first final response letter dated 22 February 2023. It noted Miss Ss issues as:
1. Receiving a text stating address update when she hadnt updated her address; and
2. That she was told the text would likely have something to do with the post office and 
that she couldnt log a complaint on the call.
RBS said that a text had been sent to Miss S on 14 February 2023 as a return to branch 
marker had been applied to her account following statements that had been sent to Miss S 
being returned to RBS. It didnt think it had done anything wrong in regard to this issue. 
However based on Miss Ss testimony of the call it said she hadnt been provided the correct 
information as to why she had received the text nor about making a complaint, as she could 
have logged this on the call. Because of this RBS credited Miss Ss account with £100.
Another letter was sent dated 2 March 2023, in which RBS addressed further issues raised 
by Miss S. It confirmed that her account was safe and could be used as normal. It 
acknowledged again the incorrect information Miss S had been provided about why she 
received the text and about logging her complaint. It said that Miss S needed to confirm her 
address with RBS for the marker to be removed from her account.
RBS issued a further final response letter dated 19 April 2023 responding to the additional 
points Miss S had raised in response to its previous letters. It confirmed that her card had 
been marked as cancelled and was no longer active. It noted the stress Miss S had been 
caused but said it couldnt guarantee that this incident would never happen to her or another 
person again. It noted that Miss S had asked for a total of £1,200 compensation which it 
didnt agree to but it did credit Miss Ss account with a further £100.
Miss S wasnt satisfied with RBSs responses and referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator said that RBS had received returned correspondence for Miss S and so she 
thought it had acted correctly in the actions it took in response to this. She said that Miss S 
was provided with incorrect information on the call on14 February but thought the £200 
compensation paid was a reasonable resolution to this issue.
Miss S didnt accept our investigators view. She didnt think that all of her complaint points 
had been considered and while the call on 14 February had been investigated, she didnt 
think that the poor service she received after this and the further issues she had needed to 
fix had been considered. She said her suggestion of £1,200 compensation was a reflection 
of the time taken in attempting and re-attempting to resolve the issues, dealing with repeated 
errors by the bank's systems and incorrect information from RBS staff resulting in repeated 
contact. She said she experienced considerable distress, inconvenience and worry during 
this period.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My findings are set out below.
I can understand why Miss S was concerned by the text she received in February 2023 
saying that her address had updated and that if this wasnt her, she should get in touch. 
Miss S hadnt made changes to her account details and so I can understand that the 
message made her concerned that her account may have been compromised. Miss S called 
RBS and it was confirmed that RBS had her correct address recorded and that there were 
no issues with her account. This should have provided comfort to Miss S, but I can 
understand why at this point she challenged why she had been sent the text.
On the call on 14 February, Miss S was provided with an explanation about why the text 
might have been sent. However this information wasnt correct and raised more concerns for 
Miss S about RBSs systems. She then asked to raise a complaint about this process and 
was told this couldnt be done over the phone. This was also incorrect.
Miss S raised her complaint through the online form and RBS issued a final response letter 
dated 22 February. This letter explained the reason for the text alert was that a return to 
branch marker had been placed on Miss Ss account due to returned correspondence. 
Given this, while I appreciate the wording of the text Miss S received raised concerns, I think 
it reasonable that RBS made contact due to the potential address issue. Had this been 
clearly explained on the call on 14 February this would have provided Miss S with a better 
understanding as to why she had received the text and further action may have been able to 
have been taken at that time to get the marker removed. The letter also confirmed that 
Miss S should have been able to raise her complaint over the phone. Based on this while I 
do not find that RBS was wrong to send the text it clearly didnt provide the service it should 
have when Miss S got in touch. RBS paid Miss S £100 because of this, and I find this 
reasonable.
Following the February final response letter, Miss S contacted RBS again to ask further 
questions. I can see she was still concerned about her account and asked for reassurances 
about her account being safe and operational. These were provided in the letter dated 2 
March. The information that was available in regard to what correspondence had been 
returned was also provided and Miss S was told how she could get the marker removed from 
her account. I appreciate that Miss S wasnt happy that she hadnt been given more clarity 
about the returned correspondence and that she needed to make a further call to have the 
marker removed from her account, but I find RBS did provide a reasonable response to the 
issues Miss S had raised.
Miss S raised further issues following receipt of the 2 March letter. She contacted RBS on 
8 March and says she was told that she had been sent a new debit card on 5 January even 
though her current card wasnt due to expire. She said the card wasnt delivered and could have been misused for several weeks. She was also told the card she had in her possession 
had been marked stolen. I can understand why Miss S feels these issues should have been 
identified through the initial complaint investigation.
Miss S said the agent told her the marker would be removed and a new card and PIN sent to 
her address. But the marker wasnt removed as her local branch contacted her to collect her 
card. She also then received the same text she had previously received. Miss S contacted 
telephone banking again and the marker was then removed, and a new card issued which 
she received. Miss S explained that it had taken weeks to get the issue resolved and she felt 
the bank had made several errors during this period.
RBS sent a final letter dated 19 April in which it confirmed that the card Miss S had noted on 
her online banking but that she didnt have in her possession had been cancelled on its 
systems. It acknowledged Miss Ss concerns and paid a further £100 compensation.
As I noted above, I find that the initial £100 compensation provided in February 2023 was 
reasonable for the issues raised at that time. I appreciate that Miss S wants guarantees that 
certain issues wont happen again but RBS has explained these cant be provided. The 
outstanding issue is therefore whether I think the £100 compensation paid for the issues 
raised following the February final response letter is sufficient. I appreciate that Miss S feels 
a much higher amount should be paid.
Miss S has been caused inconvenience as the marker she was told had been removed from 
her accounts wasnt and she was then contacted by her branch about a new debit card. She 
has also been caused distress by her concerns about a new debit card being issued to her 
without her being aware of this and it not arriving. While I cannot say it was RBSs fault the 
card didnt arrive and I have nothing to suggest that the card was misused or that Miss S has 
suffered any financial loss as a result of this issue, I do think it would have been reasonable 
that this issue would have been identified when Miss Ss initial complaint was investigated. I 
also note that she wasnt aware her existing card had been marked as stolen. I can 
understand why the combination of these issues led Miss S to have concerns about her 
accounts. However, I also note that RBS has responded to the issues Miss S has raised in a 
timely way and provided her with reassurance that her accounts are safe and operational. 
Taking all of this into account, I do think that further compensation should be paid. I do not 
think a total of £1,200 as requested by Miss S is reasonable in this case but I think a further 
£100 should be paid to reflect the number of issues that Miss S has needed to deal with. 
This will bring total compensation to £300 (of which £200 has already been paid).
RBS accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I find that Miss S hasnt been provided with the 
service she should have by RBS. While I find that the initial £100 compensation paid in 
February 2023 was reasonable for the issues raised at that time, and I note the additional 
£100 compensation awarded by RBS for the subsequent issues raised, I think that further 
compensation should be paid in recognition of the number of issues Miss S has needed to 
raise and the distress and inconvenience she has been caused.
In my provisional decision I recommended that a further £100 compensation be paid to 
Miss S (bringing total compensation to £300) and I set out my reasons for this. As RBS has 
accepted my provisional decision and no further evidence has been provided in response to my provisional decision, my conclusion hasnt changed. Therefore, I require RBS to pay 
Miss S an additional £100 compensation in resolution of this complaint.
Putting things right
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Miss S a further £100 (bringing total 
compensation to £300) in resolution of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should take the action set out above 
in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman