DRN-3648029
Complaint
Ms A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) erroneously told her that it would be 
closing her accounts.
Background
In January 2022, Barclays sent Ms A a letter confirming that it would be closing her current 
and savings accounts in 14 days. Ms A immediately complained about this. Barclays 
responded before any closure took place to confirm that the notice to close had been sent in 
error and that Ms As accounts wouldnt close in February 2022. Ms A remained dissatisfied 
and so referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms As concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had 
treated Ms A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Ms A disagreed and 
so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly towards        
Ms A and so Im not upholding her complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Ms A, a bank is generally under no obligation to continue 
offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. Nonetheless, Barclays did carry 
out a review into the reasons behind its decision to close Ms As accounts once she got in 
touch and it realised that Ms A had been sent a notice to close her accounts in error. So this 
meant that Ms As accounts didnt end up being closed. 
Ms A says that Barclays actions dont go far enough to put things right. She says that she 
should be compensated for the stress and worry she went through and having to spend a 
considerable amount of time looking into choosing an alternative bank.
Ive thought about what Ms A has said. The first and most important thing here is that Ms As 
accounts werent closed, her accounts werent blocked or suspended and none of her 
payments were stopped. So Im satisfied that Ms A didnt suffer any direct financial losses as 
a result of Barclays error in sending her the notice of closure.
That said, even though Ms A didnt suffer any direct financial losses, it is still open to me to 
make an award for distress and inconvenience should the circumstances warrant it. So Ive 
thought about the circumstances and the impact of Barclays error in sending the letter that it 
did here. 
I appreciate that it will have been concerning for Ms A to have received a letter telling her 
that her accounts would be closed. But sometimes things can go wrong during the course of 
a customer using the services of a financial institution  such as Barclays. And it wont 
always follow that a customer will be entitled to compensation just because something might 
have gone wrong.  
In this case, Im mindful that Barclays put things right for Ms A almost immediately. I 
appreciate that it was a couple of days before Ms A received Barclays letter confirming that 
her accounts would be closed. But Barclays tried to get in contact by phone the day after   
Ms As complaint to explain this. Although Ms A wasnt able to accept Barclays phone calls 
because she was at work, she was nonetheless aware that Barclays was looking into the 
matter. And as Ms A had made it clear that she didnt want her accounts to be closed and 
asked for the decision to be reviewed, I think that it was premature for Ms A to have spent 
considerable time and effort looking for alternative facilities.
So overall while Im satisfied that Barclays did incorrectly send Ms A a notice that it would be 
closing her accounts, it nonetheless took steps to put things right relatively quickly. And 
considering everything, Im satisfied that Barclays error didnt cause Ms A an amount of 
frustration and annoyance that was more than what one would expect from day-to-day life.
As this is the case, I think that what Barclays has already done to put things right  
rescinding the notice to close and apologising for any inconvenience caused  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the case. And Im satisfied that Barclays doesnt need to 
pay Ms A any compensation.
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Barclays has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Ms A and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for Ms A. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman