DRN-3674889
The complaint
Mr G complains that Vitality Life Limited trading as Vitality Life treated him unfairly when he 
tried to cancel an application for a life insurance policy. He is also unhappy with the 
customer service he received when trying to sort this out. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint because she didnt think Vitality Life had treated 
Mr G unfairly. Mr G is seeking compensation for what happened and so he didnt agree with 
the outcome.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I realise this will come as a disappointment 
to Mr G. But I must consider if Vitality Life has treated him unfairly and I dont think it has. Ill 
explain why: 
Mr G applied for life cover through a third party and was informed his doctor would 
need to be contacted prior to his policy being approved. After consideration Mr G 
decided, due to the sensitive nature of his personal information he no longer wanted 
to proceed with the application. He contacted Vitality Life on 28 June 2022 to cancel 
his application. 
Unfortunately, he couldnt confirm the status of his application during this call 
because the call cut off. But the following day he called back and was advised his 
application had been declined and no contact had been made with his doctor. Whilst 
I understand the frustration in having to call back and wait whilst this was confirmed, 
I dont think Vitality Life treated Mr G unfairly. 
I cant be certain why the initial call came to an end but having listened to the calls I 
cant say Vitality Life acted unfairly or unreasonably. It promptly informed Mr G his 
application was no longer being processed and investigated his complaint within a 
reasonable amount of time. 
Whilst it didnt offer monetary compensation, in recognition of the inconvenience Mr 
G says he underwent whilst trying to sort this out, it did offer a small gift as a gesture 
of goodwill. 
Mr G didnt accept the gesture and thats his decision to make. Vitality Life confirmed 
it provided feedback to its call handlers about how the process couldve been more 
efficient, but problems arose because Mr G was trying to cancel an application that 
had already been declined. I think Vitality Life did enough, quite quickly to try and 
sort things out for Mr G.  
Unfortunately, when calling a business such as Vitality Life it isnt out the ordinary to 
expect some wait times during a call. Taking everything into account I cant say 
Vitality Life acted unfairly or unreasonably for the reasons Ive explained.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman