DRN-1634948
 
The complaint
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA), as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my 
decision.
Mrs W says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs W took out on a store card account in July 2000. It 
was added to her account when she applied for the card in store.
Mrs W says she was told she had to have the PPI policy to qualify for the card. She says the 
sales assistant requested that she signed where marked on the form. She also adds that she 
had two accounts with PPI and AXA have upheld one account but not this one. She thinks 
AXA mis-sold the policy to her.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs W says she was told she had to have the PPI to qualify for the store card. She says she 
was told by a sales assistant in the store to sign on the application form next to where the 
assistant marked. One of these marks is next to a box, where to sign in it meant that you 
wanted PPI. But I think AXA made Mrs W aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, 
and that she chose to take it. I say this because AXA has given us a copy of the store card 
application form from the time of sale. This shows there was a separate section for PPI and 
that it is presented as optional. 
It says on the separate section for PPI: only sign this box if you require account cover. Mrs 
W then signs next to this statement. Had Mrs W not wanted the PPI she could have 
completed the application without signing separately for it. I Acknowledge Mrs W's 
comments regarding the marks made on the form, but I can see when I look at the form that 
she had an option to decline the policy.So, on balance, I think its more likely than not Mrs W was aware the policy was optional and 
she agreed to take it out by signing the separate section and also by signing the application 
form.
This application was made by Mrs W completing an application in a store. So because of 
this, I dont think a recommendation was made by AXA. So AXA didnt have to check if the 
policy was suitable for her. But it still needed to make sure it gave Mrs W enough information 
so she could make an informed choice whether the policy was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs W would have acted differently and not bought the policy, 
if better information had been provided. And on balance I dont think better information 
wouldve led her to act differently.
Mrs W has told us she had between 26 weeks full and 26 weeks half days sick pay from her 
employer. But the policy would have paid out in addition to any provisions Mrs W would 
receive. I think taking into consideration what Mrs W has said about her circumstances, the 
PPI would have been useful to her in that her store card payments would be met. I also 
couldnt see any significant or limiting terms that would have affected Mrs Ws decision to 
take the policy out either.
Im not sure AXA gave clear information on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think this 
would have affected Mrs Ws decision to take out the policy for the reasons I have already 
given. 
Finally, Mrs W says she had two accounts with PPI with AXA and that it has upheld one 
complaint and not this one. She says the detail of her complaint is identical in both cases. 
Our service looks into each case on its own merits, looking at the information provided by 
both parties for each specific complaint and will look to make a decision on that basis. That 
is what I have looked to do here.
When i have done this, I have not found any reason that I can uphold Mrs W's complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman