DRN-1081199
The complaint
Mrs V is unhappy Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of her motor insurance claim. 
What happened
Mrs V is represented in this complaint by her husband, Mr V. Mr V is also the owner of the 
vehicle insured by the policy in question and was a named driver on the policy. 
Mrs V was insured via a policy underwritten by Aviva. In May 2019, she was involved in an 
accident with a third party vehicle. A claim was submitted to Aviva.
There were some initial delays and difficulties with the claim, including obtaining CCTV 
footage of the incident. Mrs V felt the third party was fully liable for the claim. However, 
having reviewed the footage, Aviva didnt agree, considering the issue to be one of joint 
liability. Largely speaking these issues have been resolved and this complaint focuses on 
the actions which followed.
Having inspected the car, Avivas engineer considered that the cost of repairing it was so 
high that it was uneconomical to repair. The cost of repairs were estimated at just under 
£2,400, and Aviva valued the car at just under £3,000  taking into account the pre-accident 
condition. Aviva therefore considered the car to be a total loss. 
Despite Mr V disputing this and expressing that he wanted to have his own garage assess 
the damage and then retain the salvage even if the car was a total loss, Avivas engineer 
sent the car to be scrapped. Mr V had to travel to the salvage yard to recover the vehicle. 
Aviva has compensated Mr V for the trouble and inconvenience he experienced as a result 
of having to travel to the salvage yard. And Mr V has said he is satisfied with this element.
However, Mr and Mrs V did not agree that all the repairs Avivas engineer said were 
required, were actually necessary. They feel this means the car should not have been 
considered a total loss. The car being considered a total loss was registered with the DVLA 
and Mr V has said that this has devalued the car.
Largely speaking, the dispute here relates to whether the suspension of the car had been 
compromised to the degree that it needed replacing. Avivas engineer has said that the 
inspection of the vehicle, including a geometry check, indicated that the front right camber of 
the car was out of alignment. And that several parts of the suspension needed replacement 
as a result.
Aviva settled Mrs Vs claim with a cash settlement. This was based on the pre-accident 
value of the vehicle, taking into account pre-accident damage. Mr and Mrs V kept the 
salvaged vehicle and so the cash settlement was further reduced.
Mr V disagreed with Avivas conclusions though and said that his own garage had 
determined that the suspension did not require replacing. After obtaining the salvaged 
vehicle, this garage had carried out repairs costing around £600, which did not include 
replacement of the suspension. Mr V complained, on behalf of Mrs V, about Avivas decision 
and actions, and the complaint was ultimately referred to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt Aviva acted fairly and reasonably by 
relying on the findings of the engineer it had instructed. And that, as these findings indicated 
the cost of repairing the vehicle was likely to be uneconomical, Aviva was entitled to 
consider the car a total loss. 
Mr and Mrs V didnt agree with this. Mr V made numerous comments. These included that 
Aviva should have obtained a second quote, that he would have been happy to accept the 
minimum required repair of the car that was needed, and that sending the vehicle to be 
scrapped without his express permission was a breach of the contract of insurance.
Mr V also made a number of comments relating to how he was calculating his financial 
losses. This included how pre-accident damage was factored into the settlement figure. Mr V 
also provided a copy of the MOT that has since been carried out on the vehicle and feels this 
shows the suspension did not require replacement. 
However, none of these points altered the investigators opinion and so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first issue to address is whether or not the vehicle in question required the level of repair 
Aviva concluded that it did. I consider this is the key argument in this case. And Mr V has 
strongly expressed his disagreement with Avivas decision. 
If these repairs were not necessary, Aviva should not have considered the car a total loss 
and should have paid for the cost of repair. Any other associated financial losses as a result 
of the car being considered a total loss would not have been incurred. 
However, if Aviva was correct to conclude the replacement of the suspension parts was 
necessary, then it is likely considering the vehicle a total loss was appropriate and the 
settlement provided would also be correct. 
There are some additional arguments I will need to consider, but this is the heart of the 
matter. 
We would usually consider it is reasonable for an insurer to be entitled to rely on the 
conclusions of an expert. Mr V has said that Aviva should have obtained multiple quotes, but 
I am not persuaded that this was necessary in this case. Such a practice is not normal in 
insurance claims and I have not seen anything to persuade me that Aviva ought reasonably 
to have acted differently in this claim.  
The report from the engineer concluded that there was damage to the suspension causing 
the camber of the right-hand front wheel to be out of alignment. It also concluded that 
several parts of the suspension required replacement as a result. Avivas engineer has said 
that it is not possible to adjust the camber on this vehicle and so the parts needed replacing.
Mr V has largely relied on the result of a geometry test carried out by his garage. However, 
the results of this test match those of Avivas engineer. Both show the camber of the right-
hand front wheel to be out of alignment by around 0o50. The report from Mr Vs garage 
shows the acceptable tolerance for the camber is 0o30, which was exceeded in this case.It isnt clear why Mr Vs garage determined that it was appropriate not to repair something 
that exceeded the relevant specifications. But given this variance outside of the accepted 
tolerance, I am not persuaded it was inappropriate for Avivas engineer to conclude the 
repairs were necessary. And I also consider it was fair and reasonable for Avia to rely on this 
report when assessing Mrs Vs claim. 
I do note that Mr V has provided a copy of the MOT certificate showing that the vehicle was 
considered roadworthy, apparently without it having had any significant repairs to the 
suspension. However, Aviva has said that an MOT assessment:
does not check for wheel alignment and will only do a visual check on suspension 
components, looking for play.
This statement is seemingly in line with the guidance given by the MOT inspection manual: 
cars and passenger vehicles available on the www.gov.uk website. So, it does not appear 
any issue with the camber itself would have been a consideration of the MOT assessment. 
As such, the granting of the MOT certificate for this vehicle has minimal bearing on whether 
Avivas decision in this case was fair and reasonable. 
Mr V has indicated that he would have been happy with repairs not to have included the 
suspension, regardless of whether it was damaged. But, Aviva has a responsibility to ensure 
that repairs are carried out to an appropriate standard. And given the camber was outside 
the tolerated variance, I consider it was reasonable for them to conclude these repairs were 
the minimum necessary. 
Ultimately, I consider that Avivas decision that the replacement of the suspension parts was 
necessary to be fair and reasonable. 
The most Aviva was required, by the terms of the policy, to pay Mrs V was the pre-accident 
market value of the car. The cost of the repairs deemed necessary to return the car to its 
pre-accident condition were quoted to be around 80% of the pre-accident market value of 
the vehicle. 
This valuation was made by Avivas engineer relying on motor trade guides. These guides 
are used across the insurance industry and are generally considered to provide reasonable 
estimates of an average car of the relevant model and age. In this case, these guides 
provide figures for the car of between around £2,900 to £3,400. Aviva based its valuation at 
the top end of this, so I consider this to be reasonable. 
The actual pre-accident condition of the vehicle in question also needs to be taken into 
account however. Avivas engineer assessed this to mean that the valuation should be 
decreased by £500. Given the comments of the engineer, as well as the photos provided as 
part of the report, I have seen nothing to persuade me that this reduction was inappropriate. 
Additionally, even if the pre-accident damage to the car should not have reduced its value by 
as much as £500, the settlement provided by Aviva was still within the region of the values 
provided by the industry guides. 
So, I consider Avivas decision to value Mr Vs car at around £2,900 was fair and 
reasonable. As such, I consider Avivas decision to consider it uneconomical to repair this 
vehicle at a minimum cost of around £2,400 was also fair and reasonable.
The repairs costs were about 80% of the pre-accident value. Many insurers consider it 
uneconomical to repair a vehicle once the repair costs reach a percentage of the value far 
less than this. So, I consider Avivas decision here was in line with industry practice, and I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect Aviva to act differently to other insurers.  When a claim is settled in cash because the vehicle in question is considered uneconomical 
to repair, and hence a total loss, the vehicle becomes the property of the insurer. We 
normally consider it good practice for an insurer to allow a policyholder to purchase the 
salvage of the vehicle. 
Aviva has said that it would have been able to sell the salvage for 30% of the vehicles value. 
This is in line with what other insurers receive for salvage, and Ive seen nothing to suggest 
this was incorrect. The claim settlement of just under £3,000 was reduced by 30%, with the 
excess then being deducted also. And Mr and Mrs V ultimately retained the salvage. As 
such, the combination of cash settlement and salvage meant that Mrs V had been paid the 
pre-accident market value of the car and the claim was settled in full. 
Mr V has said that as a result of Aviva registering the car as a total loss with the DVLA, the 
value of the car has been reduced. However, once the car was considered a total loss, Aviva 
was correct in reporting this to the DVLA. The Association of British Insurers Code of 
Practice for the Categorisation of Motor Vehicle Salvage makes it clear that Aviva was 
required to make the relevant entries as soon as the car was inspected and categorised as 
salvage. As I consider the car was correctly assessed as being a total loss, Aviva acted 
appropriately by registering the car as such.
It should be noted that the fact the car was incorrectly sent to be scrapped has no bearing 
here. Whilst that was an error Aviva has admitted to, it is the inspection of the vehicle and 
resultant categorisation that leads to the registration being made. What physically then 
happens to the car is a separate matter. I do agree that Aviva should not have sent the car 
to be scrapped in the circumstances. But they have compensated Mr V for the direct impact 
of this, and he has said he is satisfied with that compensation for his inconvenience.
Mr V has though also suggested that, if the suspension was damaged, the car should have 
fallen under a different category of salvage. I dont agree, as the other category he has 
mentioned relates to structural damage (i.e. to the chassis or frame of the vehicle), and 
damaged suspension would not be considered structural. Under the definition of the 
category Aviva applied, the Code above actually comments that:
While the damage to the vehicle has been noted as non-structural, there may still be 
some safety critical items that require replacement e.g. steering and suspension 
parts.
In summary, I consider Aviva acted fairly and reasonably by concluding this car to be a total 
loss. The evidence is persuasive that the suspension parts required replacement and that 
the cost of this meant the repairs were uneconomical. Aviva then provided Mrs V with an 
appropriate settlement of her claim, and fulfilled its obligations with the DVLA. My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020. 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman