DRN-3061986
The complaint
  This complaint is about a new mortgage Miss R took out on the advice and 
recommendation of Connells Limited. Miss R is unhappy that she ended up with less money 
than she was expecting from her sale and purchase. Instead of a surplus which she intended 
using to repay unsecured debts (mostly credit cards)  there was a shortfall on completion 
day. Miss R had to borrow from friends at short notice. Miss R isnt sure where the error 
happened but suspects Connells advisor got the calculations wrong.
What happened
  The history and background of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary, rounding the figures involved, 
and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Miss R and her former partner were selling their joint home as part of ending their 
relationship and Miss R needed a mortgage to buy a new place of her own. She also wanted 
to repay her unsecured debt. With the equity from the sale (Miss Rs share was £30,000 
more than her former partners, by agreement) and the new mortgage, Miss R was still short 
of the purchase price, but her parents and grandmother had agreed to gift her money 
towards the transaction; £10,000 and £40,000 respectively. 
Miss R says this should have left her with around £10,000 to repay her unsecured debts; but 
on completion day, she was told there was a shortfall of about £8,500. Miss R say she had 
to borrow this money from friends. This meant she could complete the purchase but she still 
has the unsecured debt.
When she complained, Connells denied having got the figures wrong; it said the figure 
Miss R had given as her anticipated equity share was £17,000 higher than the eventual 
amount. The first of our investigators to look at the case agreed with this, and rejected the 
complaint, even though further examination of the evidence showed Connells assertion 
wasnt true. The overstatement of Miss Rs equity share was made by her solicitors in the 
initial completion statement; this was corrected the same day and was, in any event, several 
months after the initial mortgage advice and therefore had no bearing on the calculations.
Shortly afterwards, the case was taken over by another investigator. He considered further 
possible reasons why the figures might have ended up wrong. These included checking 
whether a reduction in the selling price of the joint property and the estimated moving costs 
had been factored in correctly; both had been. So the case has come to me to review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Another important point to make is that my role is confined to deciding if the miscalculation is 
down to something Connells did or failed to do. If I find that Connells wasnt responsible, I 
dont have to decide who was. But if I do find that Connells was responsible, I still have to 
consider whether and to what extent Miss R is in a materially different position as a result.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation from June 2019. The value of such 
documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual 
recollections at a distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be 
inaccurate or contradictory. 
So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, well 
generally attach some weight to it. Miss Rs recollections of the discussions do vary in a 
number of places from what Connells advisor recorded. If the available evidence is 
incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what we consider is most likely to 
have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts 
use in civil cases.
Miss R was paying £385,000 for her new home; an anticipated £13,000 needed to be 
factored in for moving costs; so £398,000 in all. Her new mortgage was £124,000 and her 
share of the equity from the sale of the joint property was recorded by the advisor as 
expected to be approximately £211,000, based on a selling price of £560,000. The new 
mortgage and equity add up to £335,000, so Miss R needed £63,000 from elsewhere simply 
to complete the purchase. Her unsecured debts were just under £11,000, so to achieve her 
stated aim, Miss R would have needed £74,000 from other sources.
Those sources were the gifts from her mother and grandmother, and the notes show that the 
discussions were around how big those gifts needed to be. The conclusion reached was that 
only £50,000 was needed by way of gifts; a difference of £24,000. Whilst I cant be sure, it 
seems highly likely that the eventual actual shortfall at £18,500 was due to variations 
between anticipated and final figures for some of the cost components in the sale and 
purchase transaction. For example, the corrected completion statement shows that final 
equity share was £212,500 (rather than an estimated £211,000) and the total transaction 
costs to be £10,650 rather than an expected £13,000. Those two examples alone narrowed 
the £5,500 gap by almost £4,000.
Nonetheless, notwithstanding that the actual shortfall was less than the initial anticipated 
figures would have suggested, its apparent that gifts totalling £50,000 would never have 
been enough to even complete the purchase, never mind clear the unsecured debt. Ive 
thought very hard about why that might have happened. I think a clue to that lies in one of 
the comments the advisor made in her notes of the meeting on 14 June 2019, in respect of 
Miss Rs unsecured debt. She said:she also has a home shopping with next again declared to the lender. All of this debt is 
being cleared as part of the separation settlement and not out of the equity and this is 
agreed although lender doesnt ask for proof as sols deal with this on completion 
That suggests to me that, whilst the unsecured debts were to be repaid (which would be 
relevant in the affordability of the new mortgage going forward) rightly or wrongly, the advisor 
had formed the impression that the money to clear them was factored in the settlement 
between Miss R and her partner, and didnt need factoring into the sale and purchase. 
Its possible that this was a genuine misunderstanding between advisor and client, or it may 
have been an outright error on the advisors part. I cant know for sure but in any event I 
dont need to. Thats because even if the unsecured debt was being settled by other means, 
there still wouldnt have been enough money simply to complete the sale and purchase 
alone. 
As I said earlier, there was still a £13,000 shortfall in the anticipated figures, and once thats 
adjusted to take account of the final figures, we get to within £1,000 of the actual shortfall of 
£8,500 (Im satisfied any further difference is down to rounding). The advisors duty included 
making sure she assessed Miss Rs needs and circumstances correctly; based on 
everything Ive seen, that didnt happen. Miss R is therefore due redress; so I must next 
decide what that redress should be.
In bringing her complaint, Miss R answered the question about what her preferred outcome 
would be by saying shed like an explanation of what had gone wrong and said: ultimately I 
would like to at least get my £8,500 [rounded] repaid.
Ive provided what I think is the most likely explanation, based on the available evidence 
from both sides. But on Miss Rs further request, I have to correct her; the shortfall isnt her 
money. Its money she never had, but would always have needed to find elsewhere in order 
to achieve her aim of buying her new home. 
If we decide that a business has done something wrong, we need to work out what would 
have happened differently, and seek to put the consumer in the position theyd be in, if the 
mistake hadnt happened. Taking that approach and applying it here, what appears to have 
been a likely calculation error on the advisors part resulted in Miss R being assessed as 
needing less by way of family gifts than she really did need. 
That being so, Miss Rs current position is not substantially different from how it would have 
been if the mistake hadnt happened. She was always going to need more money from an 
external source; be that a larger family gift or a loan from friends if the former wasnt 
possible. The main difference is that shed most likely have been able to arrange that in a 
planned and orderly fashion, rather than be forced to do so in an emergency to make sure 
she had the money on completion day.
The real impact on Miss R seems to me to have been the shock of finding this all out at the 
last minute and the stress involved in finding the extra money at short notice. This is very 
much a subjective area; everyone reacts to and perceives things differently, especially in 
the moment, when already subject to the stresses that are inherent in moving house. But I 
have to take a step back and assess things objectively. When I do that, it seems to me that 
the added impact of this on Miss R would have been significant; enough in my view to 
warrant compensation of £350.
The parties were given until 22 September 2021 to make any further comments; both have 
done so. Connells accepted my provisional decision and agreed to pay the proposed 
compensation. Miss R made a more detailed reply, which I summarise below:The first of our investigators didnt do a good job of looking into her complaint, accepting 
Connells incorrect assertion about the equity share.
If shed been told the true amount needed to achieve her stated aim was £74,000, she 
would have walked away from the purchase rather than put such a heavy burden on her 
family. The impact on her mother has been made worse by the recent death of her 
father.
The shock she felt when she realised she might lose out on her and her childrens new 
home warranted more compensation than £350.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
I wont be departing from my provisional decision. But I will comment on the points Miss R 
raised.
Its quite reasonable for Miss R to be annoyed that our initial investigator mis-judged the 
evidence in the case the first time around. Its regrettable when that happens, and Im sorry it 
did in her case. But its also one of the reasons our rules allow either party the right to have 
the case reviewed by an ombudsman. That way, we get the opportunity to correct any 
mistakes in our handling of a case.
I can understand if Miss R would have baulked at the purchase if shed known at the outset 
that shed need as much as she would have, if she were to fulfil all her objectives. Its 
possible she might have looked for a cheaper property or, notwithstanding how she feels 
currently, its also possible that, in the moment, she might still have proceeded as she did. 
To be clear, in saying that, Im not in any way seeking to invalidate or contradict how Miss R 
feels now. But its important to remember that Miss R has the benefit of hindsight, and her 
current views are filtered through her knowledge of events that have happened since she 
took the mortgage out. 
Im very sorry to learn Miss Rs fathers death, and the impact this has had on her and her 
mother. But I cant hold Connells to account for that; its not a consequence, foreseeable or 
otherwise, of something Connells did or failed to do.
I cant know for sure what Miss R might have done differently, and in any event, the fact is 
that is that Miss R has bought the property she has bought, and that cant readily be 
unwound.
I said in my provisional decision that assessing the impact of a mistake such as the Connells 
made here on a person is subjective, and dependent on perception. Theres no one answer 
that fits all; every case must be assessed on its own merits, taking into account the specific 
circumstances. But the awards we make also need to reflect a consistent approach. 
With that aim in mind, our awards fall into different bands, depending on how severe we 
consider the impact on the individual to have been. The point I made is that moving house is 
already stressful to begin with, and when deciding how much Connells should pay Miss R, 
I have to assess the extra stress (above and beyond the norm, so to speak) its mistake had 
on her. Based on her own testimony, I found that impact to have been significant, and £350 is very much in the significant band of our awards. Overall, I remain of the view that its a 
fair award.
 
My final decision
  My final decision is that I determine this complaint by ordering Connells Limited to pay 
Miss R £350 compensation for her time, trouble and upset. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman