DRN-3400262
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that they were mis-sold an Additions Active account (AA) in January 
2010 and a Current Account Plus account (CAP) in July 2010 by Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to the AA sale, Mr and Mrs O had a fee free account with Barclays, so they knew these 
were available.
They say that Barclays told them they had no choice but to take out a fee-paying account. 
While I dont doubt their honest recollections, I think its more likely than not that their 
memory is mistaken.
I say this because fee free accounts were widely available and advertised by Barclays and 
many other financial institutions. And if Mr and Mrs O had not wanted a fee-paying account 
in my view they would have looked elsewhere and found the free account they wanted. They 
could also have closed the fee-paying account any month but didnt for many years.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs O knew they had a choice whether to 
take out the AA and the CAP and they chose to do so on both occasions.
Mr and Mrs O say that Barclays recommended the accounts to them. Barclays says it didnt 
recommend the AA, it says it only provided information about the product for them to 
choose. Barclays says it did advise Mr and Mrs O to take out the CAP.
When Mr and Mrs O took out the AA in January 2010, Mr O signed an application form 
which acknowledged that Barclays was not providing advice or a recommendation, and 
which illustrated the key benefits of the product and who it would be suitable for. So, I think 
its more likely than not that the sale of the AA was based on information only. 
So, Barclays was only required to provide enough information to Mr and Mrs O for them to 
make an informed decision whether to take out the AA.
And I think it did. I say this because Mr O says he had a conversation in his branch about the 
AA and the form Mr O signed refers to the welcome pack he would get which described the 
product and I think hed have complained if he hadnt received it.
So, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in the sale of the AA.
Six months later Mr and Mrs O downgraded to a CAP, and both parties agree this was an 
advised sale, so Barclays was required to ensure the CAP was suitable for them.
And again, I think its more likely than not that it did. I say this because a key benefit of the 
CAP was mobile phone insurance and Barclays has provided evidence that Mr and Mrs O 
immediately registered a phone for cover and registered further phones in later years. They 
also made a successful claim on the mobile phone insurance.
So, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in the sale of the CAP.
So, although I know Mr and Mrs O will be disappointed, I dont think its reasonable to uphold 
their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman