DRN-2675159
The complaint
Ms W has complained that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms W took five loans from Mr Lender between January 2016 and December 2018. A 
summary of her borrowing based on the information provided to us from the lender can be 
seen below.
Loan Date TakenDate 
RepaidNo of Monthly 
InstalmentsAmount 
BorrowedMax Monthly 
Repayment
1 24/01/2016 20/04/2016 3 £300.00 £160.00
2 22/04/2016 06/05/2016 6 £500.00 £188.63
3 06/05/2016 18/11/2016 6 £450.00 £225.93
4 19/11/2016 20/08/2018 12 £1,000.00 £222.83
5 03/12/2018 20/04/2020 6 £500.00 £179.90
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Ws complaint. She didnt think Mr Lender was 
wrong to approve Ms Ws first three loans. But the adjudicator thought that by loan 4, 
Mr Lender should have verified the information that Ms W gave it about her circumstances. 
And had Mr Lender done this, the adjudicator thought it would have seen that Ms W had 
several outstanding short-term loans with other lenders. So, our adjudicator thought Mr 
Lender were wrong to approve loans 4 and 5.
It appears that Ms W agreed with our adjudicators opinion. 
Mr Lender disagreed and provided the following points to consider:
As part of the application, it asked Ms W how much she was spending towards
other loans including short term loans. Ms W advised that she was spending £160
towards another creditor.
There was a gap of over three months between loans 4 and 5 and the loan amount 
halved. Mr Lender says there is a gap in which Ms Ws financial position may have 
improved.
 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided.
 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms W 
could repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. 
The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Ms Ws complaint. 
Loans 1-3
The adjudicator didnt think it was wrong of Mr Lender to have provided Ms Ws first three
loans. Ms W appears to have accepted our adjudicators findings about these loans.
Mr Lender also appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings  albeit it did provide
some further comments about these loans to emphasis the reasons why it didnt think
it was wrong to approve Ms Ws last two loans.
But taking into account what Mr Lender knew about Ms W at the time of her loan 
applications and the fact they were taken out early on in the lending relationship, I dont think
Mr Lender was wrong to have approved these loans.
Loans 4 and 5When Ms W applied for her fourth loan, Mr Lender completed the same level of checks as it 
had for her previous loans. Ms W declared she was receiving a monthly income of £1,180, 
and her monthly expenditure totalled £640. This would have left Ms W with a disposable 
income of £540 of which to meet her contractual repayments which were no more than 
£222.83. So the loan wouldve appeared affordable to it.
Mr Lender has also completed a credit check. The credit check results show Ms W was not 
subject to a bankruptcy order nor was not part of an IVA agreement. Furthermore, Ms W had 
no secured loans, but she did have active unsecured loan(s).
Mr Lender has told us it asked Ms W a series of questions about her circumstances 
including: if she was in financial difficulty, and if she had any outstanding short-term loans 
with missed repayments. Mr Lender says Ms W answered No to these questions. And as 
the overall checks it completed suggested the loans repayments were affordable, it 
approved her loans.
But I dont think Mr Lender should have relied on what Ms W was telling it when she applied 
for her fourth loan. This was now Ms Ws fourth loan in around 10 months, and she 
requested her largest amount to date. The loan amount was for £1,000 which was double 
the amount she had borrowed previously. Furthermore, Ms W was due to the repay the loan 
over a period of 12 months, which was a substantially longer term than she had committed 
to previously.
So, I think Mr Lender should have now been verifying Ms Ws circumstances for this loan 
and any subsequent borrowing. This would have helped Mr Lender understand more about 
why she needed to continue taking out further loans within days of repaying one. It would 
have also helped it understand if Ms W was able to sustain the repayments over the term of 
the loan without any undue difficulties.
I acknowledge that Mr Lender completed affordability checks and the lending appeared 
affordable based on the information Ms W told it. But I dont think it was enough to just rely 
on what Ms W was telling it, as her borrowing history was showing her circumstances to be 
different to what she declared considering her need to keep taking out further borrowing 
shortly after repaying a loan. 
Since the start of the lending relationship, Ms W had declared she was making repayments 
towards loans, and this could have included repayments to any short-term loans. The 
amounts Ms W declared differed each month, suggesting she had differing commitments 
each month.  And Mr Lender were aware from its credit check results that Ms W had other 
unsecured loans. 
At this point, I dont think it was enough to ask Ms W a series of questions, it ought to have 
been verifying what she was telling it about her circumstances. 
Ms W has provided copies of her bank statements around the time she applied loan 4. At the 
time of her loan application, I can see Ms W had at least five outstanding short-term loans 
with other lenders. This information was very different to the information Mr Lender gathered 
and suggested its own lending was unsustainable. So, I think Mr Lender was wrong to 
approve loan 4.
Ms W went on to repay loan 4 over a period of 21 months rather than the contractual term 
agreed of 12 months. Mr Lender agreed a repayment plan due to Ms W experiencing 
financial difficulties whilst repaying the loan. Three months after repaying loan 4, Ms W 
requested her last loan  albeit the amount she borrowed had halved.Having considered Ms Ws borrowing history and the way she was unable to repay loan 4 
in-line with her loan agreement, I think Mr Lender was wrong to approve loan 5 as any 
further borrowing was likely to be detrimental to Ms Ws financial situation. 
I acknowledge that Mr Lender has said it would not automatically decline a loan without 
completing affordability checks. But even if Mr Lender did not automatically decline a loan, I 
still think Ms Ws borrowing history alone should have meant it should have verified her 
financial circumstances. Had Mr Lender done this, it would have seen that Ms W had at least 
four outstanding short-term loans at the time of her last loan application. So, it would have 
known that Ms Ws financial circumstances had not improved.
As a result, I think Mr Lender were wrong to approve loans 4 and 5.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case, Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not provided Ms W loans 4 and 5, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms W may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Ms W in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Ms W would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Refund all interest, fees and charges on loans 4 and 5,
Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms W from the
date Ms W originally made her payment, to the date the complaint is settled.
Mr Lender should remove any adverse information recorded about loans 4 and 5 
from Ms Ws credit file.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender should 
give Ms W a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms Ws complaint in part.PDL Finance should put things right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman