DRN-2295114
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with how Admiral Insurance Company Limited have dealt with a 
complaint they made about the legal expenses cover provided in their Home Insurance 
policy.
What happened
What follows below is intended to be a summary of what happened. It doesnt therefore 
include all of the details or is it meant to act as a timeline of events. 
Mr and Mrs D took out a home insurance policy with Admiral. Included within that policy was 
insurance to cover the cost of legal expenses in certain claim circumstances. The legal 
expenses policy was provided by a different insurer, Admiral in effect arranged the policy for 
Mr and Mrs D. 
Mr and Mrs D made a claim under the legal expenses cover however this was unsuccessful. 
They were unhappy with how the claim was dealt with for many reasons, which I wont detail 
here as this is being dealt with under another complaint reference at this service. 
Mr and Mrs D complained to Admiral as the cover was included in the home insurance 
policy. Mr and Mrs D said they felt Admiral should take some responsibility for how their 
claim was dealt with and how Admirals suppliers were treating customers. 
Admiral explained it didnt usually investigate complaints about the legal expenses cover. It 
would usually pass the complaint on to the relevant insurer and its claims handler. In this 
instance however, Mr and Mrs D were told Admiral would look into their complaint about 
what had happened.  Mr and Mrs D were told to provide information about what had 
happened for Admiral to consider. The investigation took quite some time - Mr and Mrs D 
were unhappy with this also. 
Admiral reviewed the information but initially told Mr and Mrs D there was nothing it could 
help with as the legal expenses cover was provided separately. It also said that the 
investigation had been completed as quickly as possible, but the matter was complex and 
hampered by the amount of information Mr and Mrs D had sent during the course of it.  
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy Admirals response, they said theyd been reassured by a 
representative their concerns echoed those of others and, they were given the impression 
Admiral may provide a payment to them towards their legal costs as well as some 
compensation. Mr and Mrs D also found out that Admiral had disclosed some of their 
information, without permission, to a third party. Mr and Mrs D made a separate complaint to 
the relevant organisation about this. 
After a further review, Admiral was able to locate and listen to some telephone calls Mr and 
Mrs D had with one of their representatives. These calls established the extent to which Mr 
and Mrs D had been misled about what Admiral might be able to do for them. Admiral wrote 
to Mr and Mrs D apologising for this, and taking into account the mistaken sharing of 
information, offered Mr and Mrs D £1,000 compensation.  
Mr and Mrs D remained unhappy with how theyd been treated by Admiral and they didnt 
feel the compensation theyd been offered was enough to reflect the additional effort theyd 
been put too and the stress and anxiety theyd been caused. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but felt the amount Admiral had offered to put things 
right was fair and reasonable. Mr and Mrs D disagreed so the case has been passed to me 
to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the detailed information Mr and Mrs D have sent and the effort this has taken to 
pull together. It has allowed me to fully understand what has happened and provided 
sufficient information to allow me to reach a decision. Whilst I dont intend to respond in 
similar detail, I have read all of their correspondence and taken it into account when making 
my decision. So, if I dont mention any particular point or piece of evidence it isnt because I 
havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my 
decision. I hope Mr and Mrs D dont take this as a discourtesy; it is just a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service.
In this complaint, I will only be considering Admirals actions. I appreciate why Mr and Mrs D 
feel strongly about everything that has happened, but I must restrict my consideration here 
to Admiral. 
I understand why Mr and Mrs D approached Admiral, as the legal expenses cover is 
included in their home insurance policy. However, as Admiral has correctly explained, it is 
another insurer, and its claims handler, that actually provide the cover in practice. Admirals 
role here was to broker this insurance. This means it has no control over the policy, either 
how it is administered or how claims are dealt with. 
Given the nature of this complaint, Admiral agreed to review what had happened. And while I 
think this was well intentioned, I do think it would have been better to explain to Mr and Mrs 
D what theyd complained about wasnt something Admiral could change or influence. They 
were told this, but much later in the process, when Mr and Mrs D had gone to considerable 
effort to explain in detail what had been happening with the legal expenses claim and why 
they were unhappy. 
Mr and Mrs D spoke with one of Admirals representatives, and as has since been 
acknowledged, they were given misleading information about the extent to which Admiral 
could help them. And, it has also been acknowledged the representative acted 
unprofessionally in some of the comments he made to Mr and Mrs D. 
Admiral offered Mr and Mrs D £1,000 compensation. Mr and Mrs D dont think this 
adequately reflects the trouble theyve been put to. Theyve said they have spent over 150 
hours dealing with Admiral and the fact their solicitor would charge in the region of £200 per 
hour. Mr and Mrs D have outlined in detail how they have been impacted by this situation, 
including the time, stress and anxiety they were caused on top of what has happened in 
relation to the underlying legal claim they were involved in. Their discovery that Admiral 
disclosed their information without permission was also distressing for them.  Mr and Mrs D 
have said that as well as an increased amount of compensation, they would also like 
consideration of a contribution to the costs they incurred in their legal claim, as was 
suggested previously. Ive considered carefully what Mr and Mrs D have said, and I dont doubt what impact this 
situation has had on them. Admiral has now admitted its errors and made an offer of 
compensation. The question I have to decide here is whether that is enough. 
Im mindful it was suggested to Mr and Mrs D Admiral might consider paying their legal costs 
and make a significant award of compensation, however this was done in error and without 
authority by the representative. I understand this would have raised Mr and Mrs Ds 
expectations of what they may receive, but given it was an error, and my explanation above 
as to the role Admiral had in relation to the legal expenses cover, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to award a contribution towards Mr and Mrs Ds legal costs. Mr and Mrs D would 
have incurred these costs regardless of what they were subsequently told by Admiral. 
It isnt my role to punish or fine a business. Or suggest what action it should take towards its 
staff, where serious errors have been made.  My role is to look at what has happened and 
decide a fair and reasonable resolution. 
I do think an award of compensation is necessary. It is clear the impact this situation has had 
on Mr and Mrs D and I dont under estimate this. While some of that naturally has come from 
the legal claim and the surrounding issues, I am mindful of Admirals part in it, and the 
further distress its disclosure of information would have caused. 
Having considered all of the circumstances, I think £1,000 is a fair and reasonable amount.  
As Mr and Mrs D have mentioned nothing can change what has happened or give them 
back the many hours they have spent on this matter, especially in light of Mrs Ds health 
conditions. But I think Admirals offer of compensation reflects the seriousness of what has 
happened and so I wont be looking to award anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint against Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman