DRN-2594277
The complaint
Mr G complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund him for a transaction 
which he said he didnt authorise.
What happened
At 2.20 am on 18 February 2020, a £210 payment was made from Mr Gs account. 
Mr G said he was woken up by a text asking whether the transaction was genuine, and he 
pressed No. Mr G said he contacted Barclays straightaway via Chat, and was told to ring 
the fraud department in the morning, which he did.
Barclays didnt agree that the transaction had been carried out by someone else. It said that:
-    it hadnt sent a text about the transaction, and it had no records of Mr G contacting 
Barclays via Chat overnight on 18 February. It agreed Mr G rang in the morning;
- the payment had been authorised using Mr Gs mobile app;
-     security had been passed using Mr Gs Touch ID (in other words, by a fingerprint or 
face recognition).
-    An IP address is the unique numerical label that identifies a device on the internet, 
and its location. The IP address for the disputed transaction was the same one that Mr G 
had used on previous occasions, and continued to use after the disputed transaction.
So Barclays held Mr G liable for the transaction.
Mr G complained to this service. He said the disputed payment had been sent to someone 
hed never heard of, with a description saying cleaning, and he didnt have a cleaner. He 
said the fraud had happened when he was asleep and hed disputed it at once. Mr G said he 
didnt see how it was possible that his phone had been used.
Mr G said he lives alone, and his flat was locked. He accesses his phone using his 
fingerprint and facial recognition. He said his card was in his wallet, which was in his 
bedroom where he was sleeping.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. She looked at the log-ins on and around 18 
February. Among several log-ins, there had been one just after 1 am that morning. Mr Gs 
correct passcode had been entered at 2.18 am, and then the disputed transaction at 2.20 
am. So the investigator asked Mr G if hed logged on an hour before the disputed 
transaction. Mr G told her it was possible but he didnt remember.
The investigator noted that there were differences in what Mr G told Barclays, and what he 
told this service.  For example, he told Barclays he lives with other people in the flat, but he 
told us he lives alone. He also told us he saw the payment was labelled cleaning when it 
had been Barclays which had told him that. And Barclays had no record of Mr G using Chat 
on that occasion, and the records didnt show a message to alert him to the transaction.
The investigator considered it was most likely that Mr G carried out the transaction himself. 
Mr G didnt agree. He said he was disappointed by the decision, and the money had been 
taken from his account by someone who didnt have permission. Mr D said he didnt know 
how it had happened, but it did. He said hed had previous incidents of fraud, and perhaps it 
was linked to that. He said he knew hed been a victim of fraud and wanted to fight to get his 
money back. Mr G also sent us a letter of support from his mother.
Mr G told us he tried to get records from his mobile company, to show that he had received 
an alert from Barclays. But he said his phone company could only show him outgoing calls.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What the regulations say
The relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking place on 18 February 2020 are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, 
Barclays) must show the payment was authenticated. 
Authentication is the technical part, and its the use of any procedure by a bank to verify the 
payment instrument. This can be done in various ways, such as chip and PIN for a card. 
Here, Barclays has provided computer evidence which shows that the disputed transaction 
was authenticated using the correct pass code on the mobile phone app which had been set 
up on Mr Gs phone. As the disputed transaction was to a new payee, other security details 
were also required from Mr Gs card too  Mr Gs long card number, expiry date, and three-
digit security code. And the computer records show that the correct details were entered.
So the disputed transaction was carried out on Mr Gs phone, after correct login. And the 
transaction itself was authenticated by the correct entry of extra details from Mr Gs card.
Technical information can also show us where a transaction was carried out, through the IP 
address.  The IP address for the disputed transaction was the same as that for genuine 
access, both before and after the disputed one. 
Who authorised the disputed payment
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
The key issue here is how anyone except Mr G might have carried out the transaction. Mr G 
said he was alone in his locked flat, and he said his card was in his wallet. Hes said he was 
asleep until a text alert woke him at around 2.20 am. The phone was close enough to him for 
him to be woken up. 
Even if someone else had found out Mr Gs security details, theyd have had to get into his 
locked flat, access the phone near his bed, access his wallet for the card, enter the 
passcode on his phone and the card details to set up the new payment, and then leave without Mr G being aware. I cant see that this is likely. Nor has Mr G been able to suggest 
how this might have happened.
I recognise that Mr G has tried to obtain records from his phone provider, to show whether or 
not there was an alert from Barclays at around 2.20am as he says. As Ive set out above, 
Barclays said it didnt send an alert about the transaction and it has no record of Mr G 
contacting Chat. Mr G said he did receive an alert and he did contact Chat. But this dispute 
isnt the key issue. The key issue is the fact that the technical evidence shows that Mr Gs 
actual phone, and several security details including from his card, were used. And the key 
question is how anyone else could have done that.
We did check with Barclays whether it had issued any new cards for Mr G  - in case 
someone might have intercepted that. But Barclays hadnt issued any new cards since at 
least September 2018. Barclays also said that there had been previous reported frauds on 
Mr Gs account  but not since 2016. So I dont think its likely that these were connected, as 
Mr G has suggested.
And even if Mr Gs existing card details had become known to someone else, that still 
doesnt explain how theyd have got the necessary access to Mr Gs phone, and his phone 
security details, in his locked room in the middle of the night.
I recognise that Mr G still says he didnt carry out the transaction, but he cant suggest how 
the transaction might have been carried out. 
I cant see how anyone else could have carried out the transaction, given the technical 
evidence which proves it was done using Mr Gs phone, in a location he used before and 
after, and with all the correct security details from both his phone and card. So I consider its 
more likely than not that Mr G carried out the disputed transaction himself.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman