DRN-4332511
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Oplo PL Limited wont refund to her the money that she paid for a 
holiday product using a loan from a finance provider. Her husband is also involved in her 
complaint and shes being represented in her complaint by a claims management company.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2023 in which I described what had 
happened as follows:
Mrs M and her husband agreed to buy 16,200 holiday credits in August 2018. The 
purchase price of the credits was £19,100 and Mrs M entered into a fixed sum loan 
agreement with a finance provider that she electronically signed in August 2018 for a 
loan of that amount. She agreed to make 180 monthly repayments of £194.97 to the 
finance provider.
Mrs Ms representative made claims, on behalf of Mrs M, to the finance provider in 
May 2021 under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It said that 
the credits were mis-sold to Mrs M and her husband and, but for the 
misrepresentations made to them, they wouldnt have purchased the credits nor 
entered into the loan agreement. It said that the holiday company was in liquidation 
so couldnt provide the service sold and was in breach of contract. It also said that 
the terms of the agreement are so egregious as to be unfair in themselves as the 
payment of commission has been hidden from view.
The finance provider said that Mrs M and her husband had purchased a flexible 
points-based membership which allows them access to any unit type in any season 
for any number of weeks per annum. It said that, prior to the conclusion of their 
purchase, all customers attend a video recorded compliance interview with a 
compliance manager where every aspect of their purchase is explained to them prior 
to signing all of the contractual documentation. It said that it was unable to agree that 
they werent given a choice of other lenders. It said that they were fully aware of the 
product that they were purchasing and, during its relationship with the holiday 
company, no commission has ever been paid.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied with that response so a complaint was made to this service. 
Mrs Ms complaint form says that:
the finance provider paid a commission to the holiday company which wasnt 
declared to Mrs M;
the holiday company failed to conduct a proper assessment of Mrs Ms ability 
to afford the loan and unduly pressured her into entering a contract with the 
holiday company and the loan agreement with the finance provider;
the product was misrepresented to Mrs M and her husband; and
the holiday company used aggressive commercial practices to pressure Mrs 
M;
all rendering the agreement unfair pursuant to section 140A and it said that the claim 
should also be considered under section 75.
Our investigator recommended that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. He thought 
that the holiday company had misrepresented the credits as an investment and as 
something that could be sold easily in the near future. He recommended that the 
finance provider should cancel the loan, refund all loan payments made (with 
interest), either procure Mrs Ms release from her obligations to the holiday company 
or agree to take over her credits and/or indemnify her for any future maintenance 
costs, and remove any information about the loan from Mrs Ms credit file.
The finance provider has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It has provided an explanation of how the credits work and a detailed 
response to our investigators recommendation. It says, in summary and amongst 
other things, that:
the purchase is for credits which can be used for a variety of vacations and 
experiences and is a different and more flexible product than traditional 
timeshares;
the 30 year term allows the customer great flexibility when deciding how best 
to use their remaining credits and members have the option to exchange 
additional or future years credits and spend more credits on the holidays they 
desire and once the credits have been used, they cease to exist (so a 
member could use their full amount of points in a single year);
the current management company says that it hasnt received any contact or 
enquiry from Mrs M to initiate a sale of her credits;  in the compliance video 
theres a discussion about using more than the minimum
credits in a year and the potential cost involved and theres nothing to indicate 
that the credits were anything other than a holiday and experiences product;
its also stated in the video that sales are subject to the usual market forces 
and theres no evidence in the contractual documentation, nor during the 
video, to the holiday company arranging a buyback;
during the compliance meeting customers are invited to read the documents 
and to take as long as they need which provides the customer with the 
opportunity to question any possible dissonance in what they allege they have 
been told and, if Mrs M believed that she was sold an investment but the 
documents she was invited to sign didnt mention it, she should have raised 
that at the time (particularly as the  documents say that only whats recorded 
is contractual);
it undertakes robust affordability assessments and checked Mrs Ms income 
and made estimates of expenditure using Office of National Statistics figures 
and Mrs M confirmed in a compliance call in September 2018 that she wasnt 
aware of any future circumstances which would affect her ability to repay the 
loan; and
theres no evidence from the compliance video of pressure selling and it cant 
agree that the credits were mis-sold to Mrs M or that they were sold to her as 
an investment.
It also says that is has confirmed with the current management company for the 
credits, that Mrs M's membership is live and available for her to use. It says she used 
her credits in 2019 for a holiday and has confirmed that Mrs M hasnt been in touch 
with it concerning bookings since her 2019 holiday.Mrs Ms loan has been transferred to Oplo by the finance provider.
I set out my provisional findings in that provisional decision which were as follows: 
Mrs Ms complaint form says that:
the finance provider paid a commission to the holiday company which wasnt 
declared to Mrs M;
the holiday company failed to conduct a proper assessment of Mrs Ms ability 
to afford the loan and unduly pressured her into entering a contract with the 
holiday company and the loan agreement with the finance provider;
the product was misrepresented to Mrs M and her husband; and
the holiday company used aggressive commercial practices to pressure Mrs 
M;
all rendering the agreement unfair pursuant to section 140A and it said that the claim 
should also be considered under section 75.
Section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or 
services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier (provided that certain criteria set out in that section 
are met). Section 140A gives a court the power, amongst other things, to require a 
creditor to repay any sum paid by the debtor under a credit agreement if it 
determines that theres an unfair relationship between the debtor and the creditor. Im 
not determining the outcome of Mrs Ms claims under sections 75 and 140A as only a 
court would be able to do that but Im considering whether or not the finance 
providers response to her claims was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs Ms representatives May 2021 letter to the finance provider described the 
misrepresentations that it says were made by the holiday company to Mrs M and her 
husband, including that they were advised that:
they would be able to use the credits at any time of the year and as many 
times as they wished, they would not be limited to usage and they were the 
best option for them to purchase as these were new and exciting and would 
allow them more freedom; and
they would be able to sell their credits whenever they wanted;
which wasnt true as theyve had many issues with availability and they were only 
able to arrive on certain dates and were only able to go for a week at a time.
Ive been provided with a summary of the membership application agreement that 
Mrs M and her husband would have signed with the holiday company in August 2018 
but Ive not been provided with a copy of that agreement or the other documents that 
they would have signed during the compliance meeting.
The finance provider has provided a summary of what happened during the 
compliance meeting and says that the current management company has confirmed 
that Mrs M hasnt been in touch with it concerning bookings since her 2019 holiday 
and that it hasnt received any contact or enquiry from Mrs M to initiate a sale of her 
credits. It also says that there was a discussion about using more than the minimum 
credits in a year and the potential cost involved and theres nothing to indicate that 
the credits were anything other than a holiday and experiences product.Ive carefully considered what Mrs Ms representative has said about the credits 
being misrepresented to Mrs M. I dont consider it to be consistent with the way that 
the credits operate that Mrs M and her husband would have been told that there 
would be unlimited availability of the holidays and other experiences for which the 
credits could be used. I sympathise with Mrs M and her husband for any issues that 
theyve had with availability but the management company says that Mrs M hasnt 
been in touch with it concerning bookings since her 2019 holiday.
Neither Mrs M nor her representative has provided evidence to support the claims 
that the holiday company misrepresented to Mrs M and her husband that they would 
be able to use the credits at any time of the year, as many times as they wished, they 
would not be limited to usage and that they were the best option for them to 
purchase. Nor am I persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Mrs M and 
her husband were told that they would be able to sell their credits whenever they 
wanted, that the credits were sold to them as an investment, or that theyve tried to 
sell their credits.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the credits were 
misrepresented to Mrs M and her husband or that they were induced into entering 
into the membership application agreement by any such misrepresentations.
I understand that the holiday company went into liquidation. I consider that the 
liquidation of the holiday company would be a breach of contract for which Oplo 
would be liable under section 75. But the finance provider says that a new 
management company has been appointed to provide the services in connection with 
the credits that Mrs M and her husband had bought from the holiday company. The 
new management company says that Mrs M's membership is live and available for 
her to use and Ive seen no evidence to show that Mrs M and her husbands use of 
the credits has been adversely impacted by the liquidation of the holiday company. I 
consider the appointment of the new management company to have been a suitable 
remedy for any breach of contract and Im not persuaded that Mrs M and her 
husband would be entitled to terminate their agreement in these circumstances.
Mrs Ms representative has described the issues that it says caused Mrs Ms 
relationship with the finance provider to be unfair. It says that the finance provider 
paid a commission to the holiday company which wasnt declared to Mrs M but the 
finance provider says that, during its relationship with the holiday company, no 
commission has ever been paid. Ive not been provided with any evidence to show 
that a commission was paid by the finance provider to the holiday company in 
connection with Mrs Ms loan agreement.
It also says that the holiday company failed to conduct a proper assessment of 
Mrs Ms ability to afford the loan but the finance provider says that it undertakes 
robust affordability assessments and checked Mrs Ms income and made estimates 
of expenditure using Office of National Statistics figures. Ive not been provided with 
documentary evidence of that affordability assessment but the summary of the 
compliance call that was made to Mrs M in September 2018 shows that she 
confirmed that all finance details were correct, the monthly payment of £194.97 was 
affordable for her and there were no expected changes to her financial position.
Neither Mrs M nor her representative has provided evidence to show that a proper 
assessment of the affordability of the loan wasnt undertaken before the loan was 
made to Mrs M or that the loan wasnt affordable for her. Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that a monthly loan repayment of £194.97 wouldnt 
have been affordable for Mrs M at the time that the loan was made to her.The loan was made to Mrs M in August 2018 and she received the compliance call in 
September 2018 but Ive seen no evidence to show that she complained to the 
finance provider about the affordability checks that it had made or the affordability of 
the loan for her until her representatives letter in May 2021. If the loan wasnt 
affordable for her at the time that it was taken out, I consider that it would be 
reasonable to expect her to have contacted the finance provider about those issues 
sooner than she did.
Mrs Ms representative says that the holiday company unduly pressured Mrs M and 
her husband into entering into a contract with the holiday company and unduly 
pressured Mrs M into entering into the loan agreement with the finance provider and 
that it used aggressive commercial practices to pressure her. The summary of the 
September 2018 compliance call shows that Mrs M confirmed that she hadnt been 
put under any pressure and says that she would rate the overall service from the 
holiday company as five out of five and that her overall recommendation of the 
holiday company was five out of five.
If Mrs M had been unduly pressured into entering into the agreements or 
unacceptably aggressive commercial practices had been used on her and her 
husband, I would expect her to have mentioned that in the compliance call and to 
have used the compliance call as an opportunity to complain about those issues to 
the finance provider. But she didnt complain to the finance provider about those 
issues until her representatives letter in May 2021  nearly three years later.
Mrs M electronically signed the loan agreement and, in doing so, she confirmed that 
shed received the pre-contract credit information. The finance provider says that an 
initial disclosure document was also provided to Mrs M. The initial disclosure 
document shows that the finance provider was the holiday companys preferred 
lender but it also identified two other lenders that might be able to provide finance to 
Mrs M. The loan agreement set out Mrs Ms right to withdraw from the loan 
agreement within 14 days but Ive seen no evidence to show that Mrs M contacted 
the finance provider, or the holiday company, within any applicable withdrawal period 
about withdrawing from either the loan agreement or the membership application 
agreement.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Mrs M and her husband 
were unduly pressured into buying the credits or that Mrs M was unduly pressured 
into entering into the loan agreement in August 2018 or that the holiday company 
used unacceptable commercial practices against them.
Ive carefully considered what Mrs Ms representative has said about the unfairness 
of the terms of the agreement and other documents that Mrs M would have entered 
into with the holiday company but Ive not been provided with most of the contractual 
documents that would have been signed by Mrs M at that time and it would be for a 
court to determine whether or not any of the terms in those agreements were unfair. I 
dont consider that the presence of an unfair (or potentially unfair) term alone is likely 
to mean that a court would conclude that it created an unfair relationship between a 
debtor and a creditor as the court would consider how the term operated in practice 
and whether the operation of that term caused the relationship to be unfair. Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the terms of the documents 
have been applied or operated unfairly against Mrs M and I consider it be unlikely 
that a court would conclude in these circumstances that the terms of the documents 
created an unfair relationship between Mrs M and the finance provider.Im not persuaded that Mrs M and her representative have provided enough evidence 
to show that Mrs Ms relationship with the finance provider was unfair and I dont 
consider it to be likely that a court would conclude that there was an unfair 
relationship between Mrs M and the finance provider in these circumstances.
I consider that the finance providers response to Mrs Ms claims was fair and 
reasonable. Although I sympathise with Mrs M for the issues that she and her 
husband have had with their credits, I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me 
to require Oplo to refund to her any of the money that she paid for the credits, to 
cancel her loan, to pay her any compensation or to take any other action in response 
to her complaint.
Subject to any further comments or evidence that I received from any of Mrs M, her 
representative and Oplo, my provisional decision was that I didnt intend to uphold this 
complaint. Oplo says that it has no further points to make but Mrs Ms representative has 
responded to my provisional decision in detail. It says, in summary and amongst other 
things, that:
the credits were sold to Mrs M and her husband as an investment that was extremely 
desirable and could easily be resold at a profit  which was consistent with 
representations made by the holiday company in previous purchases which had 
initially been represented as an investment but at sales meetings following those 
purchases they were advised that the product currently owned was not as desirable 
as had been represented and as a consequence would prove difficult to sell so they 
were induced to trade in those products;
the representations made by the holiday company in relation to the previous 
purchases which led Mrs M and her husband to form the opinion that they were 
purchasing an investment applied equally to representations made by the holiday 
company immediately prior to the purchase of the credits in August 2018;
Mrs M and her husband traded in their existing products (sold to them as 
investments) having been induced to do so on the basis that it would make it easier 
to sell what had previously been represented as an investment;
it agrees with our investigators reasoning in relation to the mis-selling of the credits 
as investments and the difficulty purchasers then faced if they elected to try and sell 
their credits;
the holiday company engaged in misleading commercial practices which caused 
Mrs M and her husband to take a transactional decision that they wouldnt have 
otherwise done;
the closure of the holiday companys re-sale scheme as a consequence of the 
liquidation of the holiday company is a clear example of breach of contract; and
my provisional decision fails to take into consideration numerous other complaints 
made to this service in relation to this product and the accompanying supporting 
testimony of the complainants.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change the findings that I set out in my 
provisional decision. I said in my provisional decision that there wasnt enough evidence to 
show that Mrs M and her husband were told that they would be able to sell their credits whenever they wanted, that the credits were sold to them as an investment, or that theyve 
tried to sell their credits. I dont consider that Mrs Ms representatives response to my 
provisional decision has provided enough further evidence to show that the credits were 
misrepresented or mis-sold to Mrs M and her husband by the holiday company or that they 
were induced into entering into the membership application agreement by any such 
misrepresentations.
The membership application agreement shows that the purchase price of the credits that 
Mrs M and her husband bought in August 2018 was £19,100. Mrs Ms representative says 
that they were also induced to trade-in the holiday products that theyd bought in 2014, 2015 
and 2016. Oplo would have no liability under sections 75 and 140A arising from the sale of 
the holiday products to Mrs M and her husband in 2014, 2015 and 2016 because they 
werent paid for using credit provided by Oplo. Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that the holiday company misrepresented the reasons to change to credits 
to Mrs M and her husband.
Mrs Ms representative says that the holiday companys resale scheme has been closed as 
a consequence of the liquidation of the holiday company but theres no reference in the 
documents that Mrs M and her husband signed in August 2018 to the holiday company 
agreeing to offer a re-sale scheme. I dont consider that Mrs M has provided enough 
evidence to show the steps that she and her husband have taken to try to resell their credits 
and the management company says that Mrs M hasnt been in touch with it concerning 
bookings since her 2019 holiday. Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show 
that the resale scheme was misrepresented to Mrs M and her husband or that theres been a 
breach of contract relating to the resale scheme.
I said in my provisional decision that I wasnt persuaded that there was enough evidence to 
show that Mrs M and her husband were unduly pressured into buying the credits in August 
2018, that Mrs M was unduly pressured into entering into the loan agreement or that the 
holiday company used unacceptably aggressive sales practices against them. Im also not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the holiday company engaged in 
misleading commercial practices or that it has breached the Timeshare, Holiday Products, 
Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 or the Consumer Protection from Unfair 
Trading Regulations 2008.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Mrs Ms relationship with the 
finance provider was unfair and I dont consider it to be likely that a court would conclude 
that there was an unfair relationship between Mrs M and the finance provider in these 
circumstances. I consider that the finance providers response to Mrs Ms claims was fair 
and reasonable.
I sympathise with Mrs M for the issues that she and her husband have had with their credits, 
but I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Oplo 
to refund to Mrs M any of the money that shes paid under the loan agreement, to cancel the 
loan, to pay her any compensation or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman