DRN-2310248
The complaint
Mrs D has complained about 1 Answer Insurance Services Ltd. She isnt happy that it 
charged her a cancellation fee when it cancelled her motor insurance policy.  
What happened
Mrs D took out her insurance policy through her broker 1 Answer. But her insurance 
company asked 1 Answer to confirm her car had a post-accident MOT as it had been 
repaired previously. It wrote out to Mrs D and tried to contact her about this on a number of 
occasions. But as the MOT wasnt provided or contact made by Mrs D it cancelled the policy 
in line with the insurers instructions. 
Mrs D wasnt happy about this as she was on holiday abroad when 1 Answer tried to make 
contact, so unfortunately she wasnt available. And she said 1 Answer had told her on the 
phone that it would waive the cancellation fee. But 1 Answer didnt have any record of this 
conversation and said it was entitled to charge its £50 cancellation fee as it had to cancel the 
policy. But Mrs D remained unhappy about this and complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. He explained that 
1 Answer was just following the insurers direction in cancelling the policy as it wasnt able to 
contact Mrs D and gain the documentation the insurer required. And it was entitled to charge 
a cancellation fee in line with the policy.
As Mrs D didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint. I know this will be disappointing for 
her, but Ill explain why.
As our investigator explained 1 Answer isnt responsible for the cancellation of the policy as 
this was the insurers decision. And 1 Answer looked to try and contact Mrs D to request the 
information her insurance company required. It is unfortunate Mrs D wasnt contactable as 
she was out of the country but that doesnt mean that 1 Answer did anything wrong.
It wrote out and emailed Mrs D on a number of occasions. And it notified her that it would 
cancel the policy, at the insurers request, if she didnt make contact and provide a copy of 
the MOT certificate. It is a pity that Mrs D was out of the country, but 1 Answer didnt do 
anything wrong and Mrs D would have to complain to her insurer about the decision to 
cancel. 
I know Mrs D doesnt want to pay the £50 cancellation fee 1 Answer charged. But it is 
entitled to charge this for the administrative work it undertook in cancelling the policy on 
behalf of her insurer. This is outlined in her policy documentation and I can see that it 
attempted to contact Mrs D by phone, letter and email before it cancelled the policy. And the 
insurance company pushed the cancellation of the policy with 1 Answer, so I cant say it 
acted unreasonably. Ive also listened to all the calls provided and none say that 1 Answer 
agreed to waive the cancellation fee.
So despite my natural sympathy for Mrs D, who was unfortunately not contactable as she 
was out of the country throughout 1 Answers attempts to contact her, I dont think 1 Answer 
has done anything wrong. It is entitled to charge the £50 cancellation fee in line with the 
terms and conditions.  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman