DRN-3720852
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the poor service she received from Barclays Bank PLC. She says:
Correspondence about the closure of one of her funds was sent to a wrong email 
address, meaning she couldnt surrender the fund early.
Shed been a client of Barclays for 10 years but was forced to sell her investments, 
which shed intended to hold for the long term, when Barclays stopped its service. 
Barclays then paid the sale proceeds to the wrong account.
What happened
Mrs L had an iInvest account with Barclays. 
Her investments included a fund which Ill refer to as B. B closed on 31 March 2020 
because it was felt too small to operate efficiently, which was not in the best interests of 
shareholders. Barclays emailed Mrs L to tell her about the fund closure on 11 March 2020, 
but it used an old, and incorrect, email address, so Mrs L didnt receive it. She says she 
missed the opportunity to sell the fund before it was compulsorily redeemed on 30 March.
In or around October 2019, Barclays wrote to Mrs L to give her notice that its iInvest platform 
was closing. It said she could transfer her investments to another provider or sell them. 
Mrs L wasnt able to find another provider and Barclays Jersey branch couldnt accept Mrs L 
as a client because of her residency. She says she was forced to sell the investments which 
shed planned to keep for the long-term.
She provided details of the bank accounts where she wanted the sale proceeds paid. But 
Barclays paid them to her nominated account. She says this was particularly problematic 
because of the jurisdiction of that account, and the rules which applied to it.
Barclays offered Mrs L £300 for the delay in investigating her complaint about the closure of 
iInvest. And it paid her £75 for making payment to the wrong account. It later offered an 
additional £700.
After the complaint had been referred to us, Barclays looked at Mrs Ls complaint again and 
told us it would offer the following:
Redress for lost opportunity to surrender B fund £2,561.27
Distress and inconvenience for the lost opportunity to surrender B 
fund£250.00
Distress and inconvenience for the closure of iInvest and payment to 
the wrong account£1,100.00
Distress and inconvenience for payment to the wrong account 
(already paid)£75.00
Compensation for the delay in investigating Mrs Ls complaint and 
issuing a final response letter£250.00
Total £4,236.27
Our investigator considered this to be fair and reasonable compensation in the 
circumstances.
Mrs L said she accepted the amount of compensation (£2,811.27 in total) was fair for the lost 
opportunity to surrender her holding in the B fund.
She said she could accept £1,100 for the sale proceeds being credited to an account which 
wasnt in line with her instructions, but that this mistake could still have serious financial 
implications for her.
Turning to the closure of iInvest, she said she was forced to sell her investments and she 
wanted the up-front fees shed paid of £10,000 refunded. She said she was ready to open an 
account with Barclays Jersey platform and that she told Barclays she could travel out of her 
country of residence to do so. But she was told her resident country was too high risk. She 
says she was also prevented from using two other alternative providers that shed found 
because of the limited liquidity of the funds she held.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has offered to pay Mrs L £2,811.27 for sending information about B fund to the 
wrong email address and the resulting opportunity she lost to surrender B fund before it was 
compulsorily surrendered. Mrs L says she agrees this is fair, so I dont need to comment on 
this part of her complaint further.
Mrs L says £1,100 might be enough to compensate her for the sale proceeds of her 
investments being paid to the wrong account. But she implies that shes not sure if there 
may still be financial implications for her. Theres no evidence to show she is facing any 
action for the credit to her account. And I cant award compensation for something that might 
happen. In the circumstances, I cant order Barclays to pay additional compensation.
As explained by our investigator in response to Mrs Ls argument about the £10,000 up front 
fees, these were initial charges which covered administration and marketing costs and the 
commission to the financial advisor. The fees werent for the cost of the iInvest platform and 
I dont find it would be fair or reasonable for these to be refunded when Mrs L has received 
the service these fees paid for.
Like our investigator, I sympathise with the position in which Mrs L found herself. Whilst it 
was unfortunate Mrs L couldnt find another provider, I dont find this was Barclays 
responsibility or that it did anything wrong. It was entitled to take a commercial decision to 
end one of its services and it gave Mrs L reasonable notice. The funds may have had limited 
liquidity, but shed held them for a number of years and Ive not seen information to show 
that Barclays had an on-going responsibility to ensure the funds remained suitable for her.
Whilst Barclays couldnt provide Mrs L with advice about what to do, it did suggest its Jersey 
platform as a possible provider. But it later realised it could not accept her as a client on that 
platform because of her residential status. Its not my role to comment on how a business 
operates or which individuals it is able to accept as its clients. But Im satisfied Barclays 
didnt treat Mrs L unfairly in declining to allow her to move to its Jersey platform, when she 
was resident in a country it didnt accept. I dont find it would have made any difference that 
she could have travelled outside of her country of residence to sign the paperwork; it was 
her residential status that was important.My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank PLC should pay Mrs L £4,161.27, in addition to the 
£75 its already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman