DRN-1756862
 
The complaint
This complaint has been brought by the estate of Mr H and relates to a buy to let (BTL) 
mortgage held with Topaz Finance Limited.
The estate is represented here by the executor Mrs H, who was the late Mr Hs wife. Mrs Hs 
legal representative has brought this complaint on her behalf.
What happened
Mr H held this BTL mortgage with Topaz at the time he died on 31 December 2017. A 
mortgage broker acting for Mrs H informed Topaz of Mr Hs death on 14 February 2018 and 
provided a copy of the death certificate on 23 October 2018.
Meanwhile, on her mortgage brokers advice, Mrs H stopped paying the mortgage in January 
2018 as she was under the mistaken belief that no payments were due for 12 months after 
Mr Hs death. 
Unfortunately, Mr H hadnt told Topaz that he and Mrs H had moved a year or so earlier so 
Topaz was writing to their former address about the mortgage arrears that were building up.
In December 2018 Topaz instructed Law of Property Act Receivers (LPAR) which led to 
Mrs H realising some assets and repaying the mortgage on 19 February 2019.
Probate was granted on 5 March 2019 (I understand it wasnt submitted until January 2019), 
and once Mrs Hs legal representative provided a copy of that to Topaz on 1 April 2019 it 
removed its charge at the Land Registry.
Mrs Hs legal representative complained to Topaz (a letter which, it seems from its costs 
breakdown, it charged her £1,886 for) on 3 May 2019. Topaz rejected the main thrust of the 
complaint, but offered to refund £49.57 for the seven-day delay in providing a redemption 
statement and pay £150 compensation for three customer service delays - including the 
redemption statement issue - that were identified between 23 January and 14 February 
2019.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and felt the LPAR costs should be refunded. He 
also said £300 compensation should be paid as well as the £49.57 already offered by Topaz 
in its final response letter. Topaz agreed. The investigator put that offer to Mrs H but she 
also wanted her legal representatives costs paid. As the parties didnt reach an agreement, 
its been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I trust Mrs H wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute 
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. 
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mr H was the consumer 
and when he died the right to complain passed to his estate. But I must explain that, 
although Mrs H is representing the estate, shes not Topazs customer here. Mrs Hs role is 
to bring the complaint on behalf of the estate, in the same way that a person might instruct a 
solicitor or other professional to represent them in a complaint. 
I dont have the power to look at a complaint from Mrs H in her personal capacity or look at 
how this matter has affected her personally. This also means I cant make an award for any 
distress caused to Mrs H.
This isnt as clear cut as Mrs Hs legal representative believes, and Ive spent a lot of time 
considering whether this complaint should be upheld at all. I say this because in the early 
stages I dont think Topaz did anything wrong. It was notified of Mr Hs death on 14 February 
2018 and - despite requesting it - it didnt receive the death certificate until 23 October 2018. 
Whilst its unwelcome, the death of a sole borrower means the mortgage debt is immediately 
due and here Topaz showed patience. It had been told Mr H had died on 31 December 
2017, thered been no mortgage payments since January 2018 (despite the property being 
tenanted, therefore rent was being paid) and there was next to no contact from the person 
who was representing Mr Hs estate. In all that time it was writing to the address it had for  
Mr H, albeit it seems hed failed to notify Topaz when hed moved a year or so earlier. It 
seems that patience ran out which led to the appointment of the LPAR.
Bearing all that in mind I was potentially minded to reject this complaint in its entirety. That 
said, I agree with our investigator that Topaz could have done more by asking the mortgage 
broker if there was an up to date correspondence address, even if it couldnt provide 
account-specific information. For that reason I agree that some redress is warranted, and Im 
satisfied the offer put forward by Topaz in its response to our investigators assessment is 
fair and reasonable. To be clear, in terms of the £300 compensation included in that award, 
that is for the inconvenience caused to Mr Hs estate, not for any distress and/or 
inconvenience caused to Mrs H personally because I cant consider that for the reasons 
already explained.
Mrs Hs legal representative thinks Topaz should cover the amount hed charged Mrs H for 
dealing with this matter; a bill that came to £6,486 (including a £299 charge for the email to 
us setting out his bill that he wanted Topaz to pay). Whilst her legal representative is entitled 
to charge Mrs H that amount, and Mrs H is entitled to chose to instruct a legal representative 
with such a charging structure it would be entirely unfair of me to impose that bill on Topaz 
when it had no say in any of that. 
Legal representation isnt needed to bring a complaint to this service and wasnt needed to 
resolve the issues with Topaz either. Theres nothing the legal representative achieved that 
Mrs H couldnt have done herself. The legal representative only got involved on 5 January 
2019 and the mortgage was repaid on 19 February 2019. The reason things had got to 
where they had was not Topazs fault (other than not asking for an updated address). 
Unfortunately there is work involved with being the executor of an estate and if any of that 
work is contracted out (such as to a legal representative) then the estate must bear the costs 
of that. Topaz didnt need Mrs H to instruct a legal representative as this was an incredibly straightforward matter in terms of this mortgage. All Topaz needed was contact from the 
estate so the way forward could be discussed, and that was missing until January 2019. 
That contact could have been with Mrs H directly, and that would have obtained the same 
results as contact from her legal representative.
All things considered theres no grounds for me to order Topaz to pay any of Mrs Hs legal 
representatives bill.
Putting things right
I order Topaz Finance Limited to:
refund the LPAR costs (including interest) of £1,406.67,
refund £47.95 interest for the delay in providing the redemption statement,
pay £300 compensation to Mrs H (as executor) for the inconvenience caused to the 
estate.
 
As Topaz has deducted basic rate tax from the interest element of the award, it needs to 
supply Mrs H (on behalf of the estate) with the relevant tax certificate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and order redress to be paid by Topaz Finance Limited as Ive 
set out above. I make no other order or award. My final decision concludes this services 
consideration of the complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration 
or discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask the estate of Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman