DRN-2819936
The complaint
Ms A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc rejected her claim under s 75 Consumer Credit Act 
1974 in respect of a faulty conservatory. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
It is not disputed that the required chain is in place and the only issue is whether there has 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
The bank seems to have accepted that Miss A has a right to claim under s 75 if it is 
established that the conservatory windows are faulty. The conservatory came with a 10-year 
guarantee which, according to the suppliers terms and conditions runs from the date of 
installation. I have noted that the warranty document was incorrectly dated but regardless of 
which date one relies on Miss As request that the windows be fixed was within time.
The fact the installation took place some 10 years ago is not relevant. The agreement she 
signed said that the conservatory would be covered by a 10-year guarantee and the failure 
of the supplier to honour that guarantee is the breach that gives rise to the s 75 claim.
I have reviewed the comprehensive and detailed evidence supplied by Miss A and I am 
satisfied that the supplier has failed to respond to her request that it repair the conservatory 
in lines with the guarantee. That means it has been in breach.
I appreciate that HSBC having accepted the right of Miss A to make a claim wishes to see 
an independent report. It also has agreed to reimburse Miss A if that report identifies a fault. 
However, in the circumstance of this complaint and the misunderstanding and delay I think it 
appropriate that HSBC pay for that report.
If it does identify faults then HSBC should pay for the them to be repaired. I have taken into 
account the banks agreement that it should pay Miss A £50 for its failure to set her 
expectations. 
Putting things right
 The bank should pay for a report and any work which is identified in that report
My final decision
 My final decision is that I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
pay Miss A £50 compensation,
pay for a report from an independent third party to assess whether the windows are 
faulty,
if it turns out the windows are faulty - HSBC should agree with Miss A an acceptable 
quote for either the repair or replacement of the affected conservatory windows and
it should implement whichever is the more economical of the options available to 
resolve the problem with any of the conservatory windows that are found to be faulty 
at no cost to Miss A. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman