DRN-4479157
The complaint
Mr C complains the amount offered by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) to settle an escape of
water claim under his buildings insurance policy is too low.
Mr C is being represented on this complaint, but any reference to him in my decision
includes the comments and actions of his representative. Likewise, any reference to UKI
includes the actions and comments of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised
In October 2020, Mr C made a claim on his buildings insurance policy when water
leaked from a defective water tank in his loft, causing significant damage.
UKI accepted the claim. In November it attended Mr Cs property and a schedule of
works was produced which estimated the building repair would cost UKI
approximately £10,000.
Mr C provided an estimate from his own contractor which said the repair would cost
around £60,000 including value added tax (VAT).
Having reviewed Mr Cs estimate, UKI said it was satisfied its schedule of work
accurately reflected the amount of work required. But it proposed attending Mr Cs
property with a local contractor and Mr Cs architect - once strip-out works had been
completed - to assess the full extent of the damage and to confirm the exact repair
cost.
UKI attended with Mr Cs architect in March 2021. Following which it sent a
settlement proposal to Mr C. But UKI says it didnt hear back from Mr C despite
sending several reminders.
In August 2021, Mr C submitted costs for his own contractors work which
significantly exceeded the repair figure UKI had put forward.
UKI agreed to increase its settlement amount to £13,622.90 - which accounted for
VAT, electricity costs, and professional fees. But it said it wouldnt cover the full
amount Mr C had paid his contractor because hed gone ahead with the repairs
without UKIs approval and in doing so, had prejudiced its position to inspect any
additional damage which may have become evident.
Mr C considers UKIs position to be unfair. He says it hasnt demonstrated the repair
work could have been completed for £13,622.90. It had told him he could appoint his
own contractor when he first made the claim. The claim happened during the
pandemic and so, contractor availability was limited, and it wasnt possible for him to
get several quotes.
Unhappy, Mr C brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it and
upheld the complaint saying:
oUKI should include in the settlement figure the amount it would have cost it to
install a like for like kitchen which includes replacing the kitchen units. And
that if it couldnt provide a quote, it should refund Mr C the amount he paid for
the kitchen.
oWhilst UKIs initial reports said the kitchen units could be reused, it later said
it would assess these again to be sure they could. And because it hadnt
provided evidence to show the units could be reused  and noting the
extensive damage to the kitchen - she thought it was reasonable to ask UKI
to cover the cost of replacing the kitchen units.
oShe accepted the costs detailed by UKI in the schedule of works were fair,
and so, said UKI didnt need to increase its settlement figure in respect of this.
UKI disagreed. It said because Mr C hadnt engaged with it  following its request to
reinspect the property  it hadnt been able to assess the damage to the kitchen
units. And when Mr C did reply, the repair works were already underway meaning its
position had been prejudiced.
In reply, the Investigator maintained her position, adding that the photographs
provided by UKI only show the outside of the kitchen unit, and so, dont show the
carcasses, shelves and doors were not damaged and could be reused.
Whilst she recognised Mr C had the work carried out by his own contractor and
without UKIs approval, she said as the claim occurred during lockdown  and Mr C
had genuine concerns as to the availability of contractors given the remoteness of his
property  it was reasonable that hed want to employ a local contractor known to
him.
UKI disagreed, and so the complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans
Decision.
I issued a provisional decision, in which I said: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to reach a
different outcome to the Investigator, and Ill explain why.
The issues to be decided are whether the schedule of works which UKI used to calculate the
settlement is fair and whether the costs to complete the repairs was reasonable. Here, Mr C
wants UKI to cover his contractors costs for carrying out the work, but UKI doesnt think this
is fair.
UKI has said the settlement amount was based on its contractor carrying out the repair
works  it said this is in line with the policy terms, which state:
If the buildings are damaged by any of the causes listed in Section 1, we will either:
repair or rebuild the damaged part using our suppliers
pay to repair or rebuild the damaged part using your suppliersmake a cash payment
If we can repair or rebuild the damaged part, but we agree to use your suppliers or make
a cash payment, we will only pay you what it would have cost us using our suppliers and
therefore, the amount you receive may be lower than the cost charged by your
suppliers.
So, Im satisfied the policy makes it clear UKI can choose to repair the damage by using its
own contractor, Mr Cs contractor or by making a cash payment. But notably, UKIs costs
relating to the latter two would be capped at what it would have cost it to use its own
contractor.
Is the settlement amount fair?
Mr C argues the settlement amount is unfair - saying it would be impossible for a contractor
to complete the works for the proposed amount. Mr Cs contractors costs were significantly
higher than UKIs but under the terms of the policy UKI is only required to settle the claim by
paying what it would have paid its contractor  so long as it is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances.
It's worth explaining that most insurers have established relationships with a network of
building companies, and often have pre-agreed rates with builders that tend to be below the
market price  which will in part explain why UKIs settlement and Mr Cs contractors costs
differ.
UKI has explained the cost to carry out the repairs was based on previously agreed costs
with its suppliers and that had it been able to carry out a full inspection of the work (following
the strip-out) it would have determined the exact cost. But due to Mr C appointing his own
contractor to complete the repairs, UKI were prevented from doing this.
I havent been provided with any evidence which persuades me UKIs settlement offer is
obviously wrong, and I dont consider it reasonable to conclude that the costs would have
been higher had UKI completed a full review of the damage. And whilst Mr Cs contractors
total cost might be higher, that doesnt mean UKIs costings were unreasonable and that it
should increase this.
But Im aware the omission of the kitchen cabinets has been disputed between the parties
and so, Ive considered whether this should have been included in the schedule of works,
and in turn the settlement.
Should the kitchen cabinets be included in UKIs schedule of works?
Ive considered this, but Im not persuaded it needs to  Ill explain why. Whilst Mr C has said
his contractor said the cabinets were beyond economic repair, Ive not been provided with
any evidence to support this. Whereas conversely, the photographs of the cupboards
exterior, along with UKIs surveyors reports, appear to confirm the cabinets were in good
condition.
As Mr C went ahead with the repairs, he prejudiced UKIs ability to fairly assess the damage
to the kitchen cabinets. Had UKIs contractor had difficultly reusing the cabinets, then I would
have expected it to put that right  by amending the schedule of work  but it wasnt given
that opportunity.
UKI wanting to reassess the cabinets doesnt negate the two reports it had carried out which
said the cabinets were in good condition  and so, Im not persuaded this demonstrates thecabinets were not reusable. Nor does the absence of photographs showing the interior of the
cabinets mean its reasonable to conclude the cabinets were damaged to such an extent
they couldnt be reused. So, on balance, Im not persuaded Mr C has demonstrated the units
were beyond economic repair, and I wont, therefore, be directing UKI to include this in its
settlement amount.
Was it reasonable for Mr C to use his own contractors?
As Ive said above, the policy makes it clear that UKI can choose how to settle the claim 
Mr C doesnt get a choice. Theres nothing unreasonable about that in principle as the
insurer is paying for the claim  and so, its only fair it decides how the claim will be settled
and, as a result, how much it costs.
Prior to Mr Cs contractors starting the repairs, UKI had told him that it wanted to reattend his
property - following the strip out works - to review the extent of the damage and finalise the
schedule of works and costs. So, Im satisfied Mr C was aware, or ought reasonably to have
been aware that UKI hadnt approved him appointing his own contractor and hadnt agreed
to bear these costs.
But UKI still must consider whats reasonable for the consumer in the specific circumstances
of the complaint. So, Ive thought about Mr Cs argument that he had no choice but to
appoint his own contractor, but Im not persuade by this. Whilst I accept the pandemic, Mr C
relocating 500 miles from home, and his desire to hire someone he trusted all played a part
in his decision to appoint his own contractor, that didnt absolve him of his responsibility to
engage with UKI. And despite numerous attempts to get in touch with Mr C during this time,
Mr C wasnt forthcoming until he was seeking payment for his contractors costs.
Mr C ought to have given UKI the chance to progress his claim  which it has said it could
have done by appointing one of its contractors - before prematurely deciding UKI wouldnt be
able to complete the repairs, thus prejudicing its position. From what Ive seen so far, UKI
handled the claim promptly and Mr Cs decision to appoint his own contractor was at his own
volition and wasnt attributable to UKI having been at fault. And so, I dont consider it
reasonable to ask UKI to cover his contractors costs.
As things stand, Im currently minded to say UKI has handled Mr Cs claim fairly, and that the
settlement is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My provisional decision
UKI has already made an offer to pay Mr C £13,622.90 to settle the complaint and I think this
is fair in all the circumstances. So, my provisional decision is that UKI should pay Mr C this
amount.
UKI responded to my provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add. Mr C didnt 
reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive nothing further to consider from the parties and so, my final decision is the same as that 
reached in my provisional decision. My final decision
U K Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay Mr C £13,622.90 to settle the 
complaint and I think this is fair in all the circumstances. So, my final decision is that UKI 
should pay Mr C this amount.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman