DRN-4506716
The complaint
Ms S complains that Evolution Lending Limited irresponsibly lent her a second charge 
mortgage (secured loan).
What happened
In early 2019 Ms S contacted a company called Evolution Money Limited to discuss taking 
out a secured loan to consolidate some unsecured debt. Evolution Money recommended 
that she borrow £15,000 over ten years, at an interest rate of 26.82% variable. The loan was 
with Evolution Lending, Evolution Moneys sister company. Although Ms S dealt with 
Evolution Money throughout, and Evolution Money made the lending decision on Evolution 
Lendings behalf, as the lender Evolution Lending is ultimately responsible for the decision to 
lend to Ms S even if an agent made that decision under delegated authority.
Ms S now complains about the loan. Theres a separate complaint about Evolution Money, in 
respect of its advice to recommend the loan. This complaint is about the lending decision 
Evolution Lending made.
Ms S says that she was vulnerable because of mental illness, and had recently come out of 
an abusive relationship and was now a single mother. Evolution Lending ought to have taken 
her circumstances into account. She says she was in financial difficulty at the time, having 
taken out a series of payday loans and been subject to a County Court judgment (CCJ).
Ms S complains that the value of her property and her income and expenditure were 
manipulated to enable the loan to go ahead  including leaving out a substantial commitment 
for car finance.
As the loan is on a variable interest rate, the monthly payments are increasing. Ms S says 
that she now owes more than she borrowed and that she is required to pay around half of 
her take-home pay to service the loan. She says it should never have been lent to her.
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the complaint.
My provisional decision
I said:
Ive carefully considered all the information Evolution Lending received and took into 
account when it made the lending decision (or when Evolution Money made the 
decision on its behalf under delegation).
In lending responsibly, Id expect Evolution Lending to consider whether the loan was 
affordable and sustainable for Ms S  over its whole term, not just at the start. In 
considering income and expenditure its required to obtain evidence of income and 
information about expenditure, and can rely on what its told unless there are 
common sense grounds for doubting it.
I can see the car finance loan was taken into account  it was included in the 
unsecured debts listed as part of Ms Ss expenditure. So I dont think Evolution 
Lending acted inappropriately in that respect.
However, there are other matters that do give me cause for concern. During the initial 
interview with Ms S, Evolution Money noted that as well as a main mortgage she had 
a help to buy loan secured over her property.
Evolution Money and Evolution Lending didnt ask for evidence of this loan, but 
accepted Ms Ss recollection that it represented a 20% equity share. I can also see 
this loan recorded as being secured against Ms Ss property in the Land Registry 
entry Evolution obtained.
The help to buy loan was taken out in November 2017, when Ms S bought her 
property. Help to buy loans are interest free for the first five years, but interest 
becomes chargeable after the fifth anniversary  so from December 2022. This 
therefore is an additional item of expenditure that Ms S would be liable for, for most 
of the duration of this loan (even if not at the start). But Evolution Lending made no 
attempt to find out how much the payments would be from 2022 and didnt factor 
them into its affordability assessment. Nor did it check whether Ms S had the consent 
of the help to buy lender for further secured lending  in my experience such consent 
is contractually required but rarely given. And it didnt think about what the 
consequences for Ms S, and for the security of this lending, might be if consent was 
not obtained and the help to buy lender later took action for breach of the loan 
agreement.
Evolution Lending did include benefits income in the affordability assessment. But Im 
not persuaded that doing so was appropriate. A substantial part of the benefit income 
recorded was disability benefits paid to Ms S for assistance with the care of her 
younger daughter. There was no assessment of whether her daughters needs 
resulted in extra expenditure offsetting this income, and no consideration of whether 
these benefits were likely to be payable for the duration of the loan term.
Ms S says the benefits were withdrawn earlier this year following an improvement in 
her daughters condition; it is not hindsight to say that it should not be assumed that 
disability benefits are payable indefinitely and that Evolution Lending should have 
considered whether they would be part of Ms Ss household income for the life of the 
loan. If it had enquired into this at the time it may or may not have been reasonable 
to assume Ms S would continue to receive these benefits throughout the term based 
on what was known at the time, but Evolution Lending did not make those enquiries.
Removing the disability benefit income and adding in the help to buy payments which 
would start in 2022 are enough to make the loan unaffordable, even without the other 
matters I discuss below. And as Ive said its not enough just to look at Ms Ss 
financial situation on the day of the loan application. Evolution Lending is required to 
consider whether it would be affordable throughout the term, taking into account 
future changes it ought to have known about.
Im also not persuaded that Evolution Lending made sufficient checks of Ms Ss 
employment income. During the initial application call Evolution Money confirmed she 
was in full time employment and asked Ms S whether shed had any sick leave in the 
last 12 months. She told it that she hadnt.
Evolution Lending is entitled to rely on what it is told  unless there are common 
sense grounds for doubting it. In my view, there are such grounds in this case. 
Although Ms S had said she hadnt taken any sick leave, her December 2018 payslip  provided as part of her application  showed that a substantial part of her salary 
that month was sick pay.
Ms S says that at the time of the application she was vulnerable and had 
experienced periods of mental illness. She says that some months after the 
application these problems became so bad that she lost her job because of ill health. 
Having listened to the calls with Evolution Money, theres no evidence she told it 
about her health issues at the time, and nothing that ought to have led it to be 
concerned about Ms Ss health or vulnerability in what she said.
But the December payslip ought to have led Evolution Lending to question why Ms S 
had said that she hadnt had any sick leave. And it ought to have led to Evolution 
Lending making further enquiries about Ms Ss health and ability to work, and 
whether her income would be sustainable. Theres no evidence it considered this 
either. Had it made those enquiries, it would have learned more about Ms Ss wider 
circumstances and her vulnerable position, as well as the health problems that later 
led to her losing her job in the months after the loan was taken out.
Ive also noted that there are missed payments on Ms Ss credit record, and a 
substantial new unsecured loan, all of which are around the time of the sick leave at 
the end of 2018. Evolution Lending accepted what Ms S told Evolution Money, that 
the missed payments were because of poor advice from a friend. But it didnt 
investigate this further, consider why it coincided with additional lending, or consider 
why it appeared to coincide with a period of sick leave. Also in late 2018 Ms S had 
taken a payday loan which she hadnt paid back and was in arrears.
Ive also noted that Ms S had a County Court Judgment (CCJ) for almost £10,000. 
The CCJ was also granted in late 2018, a few months before this loan was taken out. 
Ms S said that she was disputing this as it was her ex-partners debt. But a court had 
already concluded that Ms S was responsible for it, just a few months earlier, and 
given the value of the CCJ there was a real risk that the creditor would take action to 
recover the debt. Settling the debt was not included in the consolidation funded by 
this loan.
Even though further enforcement action for the full amount of the CCJ could be taken 
at any moment, impacting Ms Ss ability to repay this loan, Evolution Lending only 
included 1% of the balance as a notional amount in Ms Ss monthly expenditure. She 
wasnt actually paying this amount and theres no evidence the creditor would have 
accepted this amount if offered. I dont think this was reasonable.
I think that if Evolution Lending had considered the matters Ive set out above, and 
made a fair lending decision in light of those matters, its more likely than not it 
wouldnt  acting fairly  have agreed to lend. I think by taking a common sense view 
of the information in its possession it ought to have noted that Ms S appeared to 
have experienced significant financial and health problems in late 2018, just a few 
months before this loan. This ought to have led Evolution Lending to investigate 
further whether secured lending would be sustainable for her, especially if her health 
problems were to recur.
And Evolution Lending ought to have included the help to buy loan expenditure from 
2022 onwards, and questioned whether to have included Ms Ss daughters benefit 
income. All of this ought to have led Evolution Lending to question whether the loan 
was affordable. In addition, the CCJ and Ms Ss recent pattern of sick leave 
coinciding with further lending and missed payments ought to have led Evolution 
Lending to question whether the loan was sustainable for her.In all the circumstances, therefore, I dont think that, acting responsibly, Evolution 
Lending ought to have lent to Ms S. To put matters right, it should bring the loan 
agreement to an end and remove all trace of it from her credit file. It should remove 
the £699 lending fee and £1,500 product fee it charged from the balance, as well as 
all interest charged on the borrowing to date. It should then treat all the payments 
she has made as payments reducing the capital balance.
I dont think it would be fair to ask Evolution Lending to write off the remaining capital 
balance. Ms S received the capital and used it to pay off other debts, so its fair and 
reasonable that she pays back what she borrowed. But its not fair and reasonable 
for Evolution Lending to charge fees and interest for a loan it should not have entered 
into. So it should work with Ms S to come to an affordable and sustainable 
arrangement for the repayment of the remaining capital only.
I can see that Ms S has experienced financial difficulty in making repayments, 
beginning in 2019 when she lost her job and continuing more recently as the monthly 
payments have increased in line with changes in the interest rate. If Evolution 
Lending had not lent, Ms S would not have experienced these problems  though 
she may well have had difficulties with the unsecured debt she would have retained 
had it not been consolidated into this loan. However, its also possible Ms S would 
have come to some arrangement with her unsecured creditors had this loan not 
existed. So its not possible to be sure exactly what capital or interest Ms S would 
have had to pay if the debts had not been consolidated into this loan.
It's likely that removing all interest from this loan results in a saving to Ms S 
compared to the amount she would have had to pay towards the consolidated debts 
had they not been consolidated. But its also possible she would have entered an 
arrangement such as bankruptcy which would lead to her paying less (though with 
other consequences). Its likely there is some saving in removing interest from the 
loan. But nevertheless I think its a fair outcome to this complaint because I dont 
think its fair and reasonable for Evolution Lending to recover fees and interest 
charged under a loan agreement that ought never to have been entered into. And 
because the existence of this loan caused Ms S substantial distress and 
inconvenience when it became unaffordable for her, with the added worry that it was 
secured over her property. I dont propose to compensate Ms S separately for the 
distress and inconvenience this lending and the associated financial difficulties 
caused her. I think the saving made in writing off the interest on this loan represents 
fair compensation for that.
The responses to my provisional decision
Ms S said that she was pleased I intended to uphold her complaint. She said that shed 
already paid back more than she had borrowed. She said that the loan had caused her 
substantial distress and financial difficulties, including having to rely on the support of family 
to make the repayments, and having to default on other debts to keep up with this loan. She 
set out some of what she had experienced. 
Evolution Lending didnt agree that the complaint should be upheld. It said the loan achieved 
its goal of reducing Ms Ss outgoings. It said that if there was any additional expenditure 
because of Ms Ss daughters disability that would have showed on her bank statements. 
And as she was five years old at the time, it was reasonable to assume that it would be paid 
for the duration of the loan term.
Evolution Lending said that Ms S had said she hadnt had time off sick. She could have told 
it that she had. It agreed it could have questioned the December payslip, but says it acted in good faith and there was no reason to believe Ms S would have given more information if it 
had asked about it. It also pointed out that Ms S had not had time off sick in the two 
subsequent months. It said that Ms S lost her job during the pandemic, and that couldnt 
have been foreseen at the time of the lending decision. 
And it said it did ask about the help to buy loan, and took into account that it was for 20% of 
the propertys value. It is not responsible for whether or not Ms S complies with the terms of 
her agreement with that lender. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the responses to my provisional decision  having done so, I see no 
reason to change my mind.
I dont think it was reasonable to assume that the disability benefits would have been paid for 
the duration of the loan without further investigation  benefits awards are not always 
indefinite, and many conditions which give rise to a benefit entitlement are not permanent 
either. Evolution Lending didnt address the point that it failed to take into account the 
interest Ms S would have to pay on the help to buy loan for most of the term of this loan. 
That should have been taken into account. 
And Evolution Lending is generally entitled to rely on what it is told  unless there are 
common sense grounds for doubting it. The fact that Ms Ss December payslip showed that 
there was substantial sick pay gave common sense grounds for doubting what she said 
about not having had time off sick. In my view Evolution Lending ought to have asked Ms S 
about this, and carried out further checks  such as asking for earlier payslips. Had it done 
so I think its more likely than not it would have discovered Ms Ss health problems, which it 
ought then to have factored into considering whether taking a secured loan was sustainable 
for her.
Putting things right
For all the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, quoted above, I remain of the view that 
this complaint should be upheld. And I havent changed my mind about how to put things 
right either. Ive taken into account what Ms S has said about her difficult circumstances. But 
I must bear in mind that if she hadnt taken this loan, she would still have had the debts she 
consolidated. I am directing Evolution Lending to write off all interest and charges. That 
benefits Ms S in that she would have had to pay interest on the unsecured loans, unless 
they would have been defaulted or she would have entered an insolvency arrangement had 
they not been consolidated. Ive also taken into account the fact that I have awarded 
compensation against Evolution Money for the impact of its unsuitable recommendation. Im 
satisfied that, taken in the round, the compensation I have awarded is fair in all the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Evolution Lending Limited to bring the loan agreement to an end and remove all fees 
and interest charged since inception. It should re-calculate the loan balance so that all 
payments Ms S has made to date are used to reduce the capital balance.If, having done so, there is a capital balance outstanding Evolution Lending should come to 
an affordable arrangement with Ms S for repayment of the remaining capital. It may retain 
the charge over her property until the capital is repaid but should not charge any further 
interest.
If on the other hand Ms S has already paid enough to have repaid the original capital 
borrowing, Evolution Lending should refund any excess payments to her, adding simple 
annual interest of 8% running from the date of each payment to date of refund. It may deduct 
income tax from the 8% interest element of my award, but should tell Ms S what it has 
deducted so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if she is entitled to do so. It should also 
remove the charge over her property.
Evolution Lending Limited should also remove the loan from Ms Ss credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman