DRN-2783958
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the cost of a loan he took from Loans 2 Go Limited (Loans2Go). 
He says the rate of interest being charged is too high and that Loans2Go has taken 
advantage of him.
What happened
Mr C applied online in January 2020 for a loan of £870. This was due to be repaid with 18 
monthly payments of just over £198.  The interest rate charged was £17.3% with an APR of 
1, 013.1%. The total amount payable, including interest, was just over £3,579.
Mr C has said he didnt read the loan agreement properly and later realised what he was 
paying. He thinks the APR on the loan was too high and he has referred to another decision 
made by the Service which he thinks supports his complaint. Mr C has confirmed that his 
complaint is about the cost of the loan, and not about irresponsible lending.
One of our adjudicators looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C didnt 
agree with the adjudicator, and so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering complaints about high cost lending on our 
website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. And Ive 
considered this approach when deciding Mr Cs complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr C has said about the cost of this loan. I think there was a very 
large amount of interest payable on his loan and I can appreciate that Mr C might now feel 
this was unfair.  
However, the loan documents set out the terms, the amount of interest payable and the full 
cost of the loan. Mr C made several payments over a period of months before he 
complained about the cost of the loan. It seems likely that Mr C had to actively engage in the 
loan application process online, and I think its likely that he was aware of the 18-month loan 
term, the monthly instalments and the total amount re-payable at the time he submitted his 
application and agreed to the continuous payment authority.
Mr C appears to think that Loans2Go may have breached its regulatory obligations in 
relation to the cost of this loan and the interest applied. Ive not seen anything which makes 
me think Loans2Go acted outside of the regulatory requirements in this regard. The loan did 
not fall under the regulatory cost cap as the term was over 12 months.  Mr C has suggested 
that another decision made by this Service about a high cost 18-month loan supports his 
complaint. I understand why he feels this, but the full circumstances relating to this other 
decision are different and I have to make my decision based on the circumstances of Mr Cs 
complaint, about his particular loan. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mr C was aware he was taking a high cost loan over 
an 18-month period and he accepted these terms at the time. Mr C has said he feels he was 
taken advantage of by Loans2Go. I am sorry that Mr C may have subsequently found it 
difficult to repay his loan, but I havent seen anything which suggests that Loans2Go took 
advantage of him at the time in order to provide him with high cost lending or in some way 
gave him little choice but to take the loan.
I cant fairly conclude that Loans2Go acted unfairly because the loan it provided to Mr C was 
high cost. Loans2Go does have an obligation to treat Mr C positively and sympathetically. 
So if he is struggling to repay his loan, I would expect Loans2Go to try and agree a 
repayment plan that is affordable for Mr C and enables him to repay the loan over a 
reasonable period of time.
I appreciate that Mr C feels very strongly about his complaint. I am aware that he will be 
disappointed by my decision, but having carefully considered the matter, I do not uphold his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against Loans 
2 Go Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2021.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman