DRN-3127832
The complaint
Mr C complains that Octopus Investments Limited (Octopus) provided misleading 
information about an Enterprise Investment Scheme and failed to properly manage the 
investment, causing him to sustain capital losses for which he seeks compensation.
What happened
In February 2015, Mr C invested £350,000 into Octopus EIS Tranche 18, following advice 
from his adviser. Mr C sustained substantial capital losses for which he seeks compensation. 
Mr C maintained that Octopus failed to provide a capital preservation return and misled him 
as to risk exposure. Further, the investment was not made into renewable energy. Ive seen 
that Mr C also raised concern about the level of debt financing taken by the investee 
companies and the term of the EIS.
In response, Octopus said that EISs are inherently high-risk investments offering significant 
tax relief. It was for Mr Cs adviser to assess whether the product was suitable for Mr Cs 
needs. It was for Octopus to provide information in a clear, fair and not misleading manner 
and to manage the investment in line with the mandate. The target of capital preservation 
explained the investment strategy, but a return was not guaranteed. Octopus maintained that 
the key risks were set out in the Information Memorandum (IM). As to the potential areas of 
investment, Octopus relied upon the Details of Underlying investments guide, which 
referred to reserve power and anaerobic digestion. As discretionary investment manager, it 
was for Octopus to select investments in line with the mandate and they had explained the 
risk of lack of diversification. The majority of investment was in reserve power, a sector in 
line with the mandate. Octopus set out its due diligence process, following a seven-stage 
process from initial review of plans, approval from an investment committee and full due 
diligence, which included reliance upon third party industry expert forecasts.
As to debt financing, Octopus confirmed that investee companies were able to raise finance 
through debt financing and this was not uncommon. The use of debt was considered at the 
financial modelling stage. As the sources of finance were linked to other investments 
managed by Octopus, the use of such financing and the possible conflict of interest was 
highlighted in the IM under the conflicts of interest section. It was open to the adviser to seek 
more information at the pre-investment phase.
Octopus acknowledged that the investment underperformed but said that Government led 
changes impacting the energy sector came into play after investor capital had been 
deployed. Site construction continued as consultation was broadly positive, but changes 
such as TRIAD phase-outs 2018/2019, Capacity Market Suspension 2018 followed by lower 
than predicted one year contracts from 2017 onwards and removal of other benefits, affected 
the predictability of revenues and were matters outside Octopus control. Octopus 
maintained that the combination of these factors had not been foreseen at the point of 
investment, but energy sector specific risks had nevertheless been highlighted in the IM.
Our investigator considered the complaint and decided not to uphold it. He thought Octopus 
explained that investment was likely to be in anaerobic digestion or reserve power 
companies and funds were invested into companies operating in these areas. Our 
investigator was not persuaded that Mr C was misled about investment in reserve power. He 
considered that Octopus set out the investment strategy of capital preservation but this was 
not over-shadowed by the warnings that the investment was high risk. Warnings were 
provided about the high-risk nature of the EIS and wider warnings were given about 
investing in the energy sector. Responsibility for suitability of the recommendation was down 
to Mr Cs IFA.
Further, Octopus did make clear the possibility that investee companies might take on debt. 
Mr C had granted Octopus the exclusive right to manage the portfolio at their discretion. 
Exceptional circumstances arose, which were outside Octopus control and occurred after 
the investment had been made. Octopus gave a guide that investors should anticipate 
holding the investment for around 4 years, but no guarantees as to timelines were made.
Mr C disagrees with the outcome. Those acting on his behalf have raised several points 
including that the marketing literature was misleading as to the investment companies, which 
Octopus held out as being green and in renewable energy whereas over 90% of investment 
was in reserve power. Inadequate risk warnings were given. Octopus did not highlight the 
option to withdraw earlier, to enable Mr C to crystalise his losses. Octopus advanced its 
business interests to the detriment of EIS investor, was unclear about relationships with 
partners and made catastrophic investments, failing to react to underperformance.
The matter has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that Mr Cs financial adviser recommended investment into the EIS. This 
decision does not consider whether that recommendation was suitable for Mr Cs attitude to 
risk, objectives and capacity for loss at the time. Any such complaint about suitability of the 
recommendation lies against the provider of that advice. The investment agreement, signed 
by Mr C, expressly stated that this was an advised investment and the terms were clear that 
Octopus was not responsible for providing advice as to the suitability of the investment as 
against Mr Cs needs.
Its clear that Mr C is disappointed with the performance of this investment. Having read all 
the information provided, I hope Mr C wont take it as a discourtesy that I havent addressed 
every point raised. Ive concentrated my findings on what I consider to be the key factors in 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. So, the focus of this decision is whether Octopus 
provided clear, fair and not misleading information about investing in the EIS and whether it 
was managed in line with the mandate.Risk
Its helpful to highlight the distinction between an investment strategy and the risks pertaining
to a particular investment. I have reviewed the IM from the time. The aim of the investment 
was to return the capital sum invested, whilst also providing a range of tax benefits. That 
capital preservation was targeted rather than growth does not automatically mean that risk 
exposure was lower. EISs are non-mainstream, complex and illiquid, specialised and 
speculative investments, where there is a real risk of losing the original capital investment. It 
is this risk, which justifies the tax benefits and it was for Mr Cs adviser to factor this into the 
suitability assessment.
I consider that the totality of the following risk warnings made it clear that this was an 
investment where Mr C was placing his capital at risk and on balance, I consider that it is 
more likely than not that reasonable warning was provided about the higher risk profile of 
this EIS.
In the introduction:
An EIS isnt for everyone and should be viewed as a high risk investment  even though we 
target capital preservation, your capital is placed at risk.
Risk section
Octopus EIS invests in small unquoted companies that have a higher risk profile than larger 
companies. This is because smaller companies have a higher failure rate than more 
established businesses . . .Your capital is at risk and the investment return is not 
guaranteed. . . 
There is no guarantee that Octopus EIS will achieve its objective.
The risk section also highlighted a number of energy sector specific risks, including the 
potential for changes in legislation, variable generating performance and the risk of 
fluctuation in power prices, impacting revenue. Further, Octopus highlighted that investment 
may be within one or only a small number of companies in one sector and this limited 
diversification could increase risk for some investors. Liquidity risks were also highlighted, so 
Mr C knew or ought to have known that he would be unable to access his capital for at least 
four years. Further, Octopus highlighted that underlying investee companies might take on 
debt in the conflicts of interest section (see below). Further Octopus explained that the 
parent company may hold shareholdings in partner companies, there may be joint ventures 
and remuneration and performance fees might be paid from companies in which Octopus 
EIS invests.
In my view Octopus provided clear, fair and not misleading information about the risks 
addressing the fact that the overall risk profile was high, there was a risk that legislation 
could change or that energy prices could fluctuate, the IM explained that investee companies 
were borrowing and in my view this would not be unusual for new and developing 
companies. It was for Mr Cs IFA to assess whether that level of risk was suitable for Mr Cs 
needs. To be clear, the fact that a combination of the highlighted risks materialised was extremely unfortunate, but it does not follow that the information provided about risks was 
misleading.
Considering the information as a whole, on balance, Im not persuaded that Octopus misled 
Mr C as to the risks of investing in the EIS.
The additional documents referred to by those acting for Mr C, namely a due diligence report 
for independent financial advisers and related third party reports/documents, were available 
to advisers to consider when assessing the suitability of the EIS for an investor. As explained 
at the outset, this decision is not considering the suitability of the recommendation to invest 
in the EIS, any such complaint lies against the provider of that advice. As to whether 
Octopus provided clear, fair and not misleading information I have considered documents 
they provided to Mr C. 
Debt
Ive seen that in the conflict of interest section Octopus highlighted that investee companies 
may receive funding from other sources managed by Octopus Investments. Further that the 
investee companies may receive additional equity investment from a source separate to 
Octopus EIS and may borrow from sources that Octopus had a financial interest in. Octopus 
went on to explain that funding could enable a larger site to be completed, offering greater 
efficiency and for some investee companies having capital (whether in the form of equity or 
debt) meant more opportunities may be available. There was no requirement for Octopus to 
consult with investors about the details of any debt arrangements given that they were the 
discretionary investment manager.
Looking at the information provided as a whole, Im persuaded that Octopus did explain that 
investee companies may take on debt. This was a risk factor to be considered when 
assessing the suitability of the investment for Mr C, which was a matter for Mr Cs adviser to 
consider.
Investment in line with the mandate
The objective of the EIS was to target capital preservation, whilst also providing multiple tax 
benefits. So, the aim was to return Mr Cs capital investment and provide 30% income tax 
relief along with capital gains and inheritance tax efficiencies. 
As to capital preservation its important to qualify that this was held out as a target and not a 
guarantee. As Ive explained, it does not follow that a target of capital preservation lowered 
the EIS risk profile. This was expressly addressed in the IM as set out above.
Its said on behalf of Mr C that Octopus provided misleading information about the nature of 
energy sector in which investment would be made. Mr C has said he placed weight on the 
pictures in the IM, which showed anaerobic plants, but Ive balanced that against his express 
acceptance in the application form that he had read the contents of the IM. So, it isnt fair 
and reasonable for me to consider the photographs in isolation. Those acting on Mr Cs behalf suggest that Octopus held out that the investment would be in 
green, renewable energy. Whilst it is fair to say that Octopus set out its history of investment 
in renewable energy sources, such as solar power, I dont agree that misleading information 
was provided about this EIS. The IM was clear, it said funds would be invested in the energy 
sector, there was nothing within the IM to suggest that any particular split of holdings would 
be made. The IM identified expertise in energy investment generally referring to anaerobic 
and reserve power. The investment team were said to also be considering other like 
opportunities. The Details of underling investment document said Octopus would be 
investing in a portfolio of energy companies. The document referred to companies in the 
renewable energy market, companies that owned and operated anaerobic digestion power 
plants and companies that built, owned and operated reserve power plants. 
The timeline set out in the IM showed that investment into investee companies took place 
after the funds were provided.  Mr C or his adviser had the option to seek clarity about the 
particular assets the funds would be invested into. In the investment process section of the 
IM, a contact number was provided if any further information was sought about the process. 
It is accepted by Mr C that his funds were invested into investee companies that focused on 
energy, the majority into reserve power and the balance into companies concerned with 
anaerobic digestion plants, which was line with the mandate.
It's also important to consider in context that Octopus had sole discretionary management, 
which meant it was for them to make legitimate commercial decisions about which 
companies to invest in by reference to their EIS qualification status and energy sector status. 
No guarantees were given as to which investee companies individual investors would invest 
into. As to portfolio concentration, Octopus explained that investment would be in one or a 
small number of companies in on sector. There was no requirement on Octopus to revert 
back about the split of investments.
As to returns, it is fair to say that Octopus spoke about relatively predictable revenue 
streams and within the IM information was provided about anticipated revenue streams for 
the sector or a degree of predictability, but that information had to be balanced against the 
risk warnings about revenue being affected by a change in legislation or demand or price 
drop. Octopus explained that appropriate due diligence was undertaken, whereby industry 
expert advice was sought about the likely return from resources and forecasts were 
considered before information was presented to potential investors. As at January 2015, I 
dont consider that it was misleading to refer to relatively predictable revenue streams. 
Octopus explained that returns could change if legislation changed or generating 
performance changed and it isnt fair and reasonable to make an assessment with the 
benefit of hindsight. The timeline of events set out above shows that the price and legislative 
changes took place years after information was provided to Mr C and after the point of 
investment into the underlying companies. 
Overall, I consider that it is more likely than not that the objective of capital preservation was 
being pursued by Octopus. Funds continued to be invested in the energy sector as set out in 
the IM. Im satisfied that Octopus highlighted the risk of lack of diversification within the EIS 
given that investment fell within one industry sector. Again, this risk factor was a matter for 
the adviser to consider when making the recommendation to invest and the amount to invest in this EIS. On balance, Im not persuaded that Octopus failed to invest in companies in line 
with the mandate. 
Mismanagement
It is common ground that performance was poor, but it doesnt follow that there was 
mismanagement by Octopus. Its unfortunate that a combination of the risk factors identified 
in the IM materialised later. Theres nothing to show that Octopus ought reasonably to have 
foreseen this at the point Mr C invested in February 2015. Octopus explained that it paused 
construction of sites awaiting the outcome of an industry consultation, the broadly positive 
outcome of which led to the decision to resume construction. The wider landscape with 
changes to legislation and falling energy prices were matters outside of Octopus control. 
These risks were highlighted and I think Octopus have been reasonable in explaining how 
the collective impact of a combination of risks materialising caused underperformance. It is 
also relevant that maintaining the investment, meant the requirement of EIS qualification and 
related tax reliefs remained available. So, whilst capital losses were sustained, the objective 
of tax efficiency was met. 
Illiquidity
The IM explained that the EIS was illiquid and funds would be tied into investee companies 
for a minimum requirement of three years to secure the benefit of tax relief. Exit before this 
time would invalidate the EIS qualification. Octopus highlighted in a section headed 
important note on liquidity that the earliest targeted exit point would likely be around four 
years, but there was no guarantee about the timing of disposal of investments. So, Mr C 
ought to have been aware that once the funds were invested, he wouldnt have access to 
capital for several years, at least four years if not longer.
Conflicts of Interest
Those acting on behalf of Mr C say Octopus put its interests ahead of investors and highlight 
that investee companies borrowed from an Octopus entity; they say conflicts of interests 
should have been made clear. 
Octopus expressly addressed potential conflicts of interests in the IM in over two pages, 
along with the process used to manage any potential conflicts of interest. In the Details of 
Underlying investments document, Octopus disclosed that it had entered into agreements 
with the developers of the anaerobic sites and this was repeated and highlighted in the IM 
along with information about the relationship between the Octopus parent company and 
development partners in the conflict of interest section. 
On balance, Im persuaded that Octopus did provide clear information about potential 
conflicts and Ive noted that Mr C didnt raise any concerns at the time. Again, it was for the 
adviser to consider whether these factors affected the suitability of the recommendation to 
invest.
ConclusionI have carefully considered everything that has been said and I understand why Mr C feels 
so strongly about the losses he has sustained. But I cant fairly say, on the basis of the 
information provided, that Octopus failed to provide clear, fair and not misleading information 
before Mr C decided to invest or that they failed to invest within the mandate given. Im sorry 
to disappoint Mr C, but I wont be upholding this complaint. As our investigator highlighted, 
Mr C may be entitled to loss relief.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman