DRN-3793276
Complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Revolut Ltd hasnt reimbursed him after he fell victim to an investment 
scam.
Background
In April 2022, Mr H fell victim to an investment scam. He contacted an account on a social 
media platform that purported to offer investment advice. He said that the profile matched 
that of a genuine account run by his friend, but he suspects that the profile was cloned by a 
fraudster.
The fraudster persuaded him to invest his money in cryptocurrency. He used his Revolut 
account to make the payments towards two cryptocurrency platforms. His funds were then 
converted into cryptocurrency and forwarded on to the fraudsters. He made three payments 
by debit card and the remainder by bank transfer. In total, he transferred a little over £10,000 
to the fraudsters. 
Once he realised that hed fallen victim to a fraud, he notified Revolut. He asked it to raise a 
chargeback in relation to the card transactions, but it said that he didnt have any 
chargeback rights in respect of them. Overall, Revolut didnt agree to reimburse Mr Hs 
losses. It said that he had authorised the payments and that it had displayed adequate 
warnings during the payment process. 
Mr H was unhappy with the response he received from Revolut and so he referred his 
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The 
Investigator said that Revolut had an obligation to be on the lookout for transactions that 
were unusual or out of character to extent that there was a clear risk of fraud. But she didnt 
think that Revolut wouldve had any reason to think that there was any significant risk here. 
She also agreed with Revoluts conclusions regarding the potential for raising a chargeback 
on Mr Hs behalf.
Mr H disagreed with the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is that Mr H authorised these transactions, albeit he only did so under 
deception. Under the regulations that apply in this case, he is presumed liable at first 
instance. However, this is not the end of the story. Revolut is an electronic money issuer. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has confirmed that all e-money issuers 
must comply with legal requirements to deter and detect financial crime, which includes 
money laundering and terrorist financing.  
Broadly summarised, the obligations on Revolut at the material time were to:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
We now know with the benefit of hindsight that Mr H was making payments to a fraudster. 
However, I have to consider whether that risk ought to have been apparent to Revolut given 
the information that was available to it at the time. Ive considered that point carefully and Im 
afraid I agree with the Investigator that Revolut wouldnt have had any reasonable basis for 
treating these payments as unusual or out of character.
Although the payments were larger than the typical payments made from this account, I 
dont think they were so high that Id have expected Revolut to treat them as a fraud risk. It 
wouldve been more difficult for Revolut to identify the activity as being out of character given 
that the payments were spaced out, made to different payees and via different payment 
channels. Its also noteworthy that Mr H doesnt appear to have used his Revolut account as 
his main bank account. As a result, it wouldve had less data on his typical spending to serve 
as a basis for comparison when deciding whether any individual payment is out of character.
Chargeback
Ive also considered whether Revolut ought to have raised a chargeback in connection with 
those payments that were made by card. 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme and Revolut is bound by the card scheme operators 
rules. Being the victim of a scam doesnt automatically entitle the payer to a refund through 
the chargeback scheme. In this instance, Revolut didnt raise a chargeback on Mr Hs behalf 
because it didnt think it had any prospect of success. That was a reasonable conclusion for 
it to draw. The payments were made to Mr Hs own account with two cryptocurrency 
platforms. Those platforms were operated by legitimate businesses which did provide Mr H 
with the service he contracted for  i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency. 
Overall, Im not persuaded there were any applicable rules under the relevant scheme that 
would have allowed a successful chargeback here.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman