The complaint  
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2002 with a credit card. Mrs G says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis -sold her 
the PPI.  
What happened  
Mrs G complained that Barclays had mis -sold PPI. She says she wasn't aware PPI had been 
added to her credit account and she didn't know it was optional. Our adjudicator thought the 
complaint should be rejected. Mrs G disagreed with our adjudicator's view a nd asked for the 
matter to be looked at again.  
What Ive decided  and why  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to compla ints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs case.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis -sold because:  
I think Barclays made it clear on the credit card application form that Mrs G didnt
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand
why she cant remember  this.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs G, so it had to check that the PPI was right for
her
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was.
For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type
of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong.
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think bette r information about the PPI
would have put her off taking out the  cover.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs  G.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because:  
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because Barclays didnt
tell Mrs G, that was  unfair.
To put that right, Bar clays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this  case.
DRN-1823259Ive thought about everything Mrs G has said - including what she said about her sick pay 
and being able to get support from her family. But these points dont change my decision. I 
say this because, although she had good sick pay benefits, a successful claim on the PPI 
policy could have paid out for longer than her sick pay. And I appreciate M rs G says she 
could get family support, but there was no guarantee that she could still rely on this support 
at some unknown point in the future.  
My final decision  
The PPI policy wasnt mis -sold  so Barclays does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mrs G.  
But Barclays does have to pay back to Mrs G any commission and profit share it got tha t 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.  
Amrit Mangra  
Ombudsman  