DRN-4307045
The complaint
Mr A complained to Santander UK plc (Santander) that he was given unsuitable advice to 
take out a pension mortgage in 1989.
What happened
Mr A applied for a pension mortgage in January 1989 on advice from Abbey National (now 
Santander). The mortgage term was 35 years and the initial capital loan was £80,000. There 
was a mortgage guarantee policy, the premiums for which were included in the monthly 
payments.
Mr A complained to Santander in July 2020. He was approaching the end of the mortgage 
term and, as he still had a balance of around £70,000 to repay, he thought the pension 
mortgage had been mis-sold.
After looking into what had happened and obtaining some further information, Santander 
wrote to Mr A on 21 September 2022. Santander apologised for the time taken to respond. 
Santander said it was unable to demonstrate that the advice had been suitable for Mr A and 
so upheld his complaint. Santander had calculated that Mr A was due compensation of 
£92,844.22. Details of how that had been worked out were given. Mr A raised some queries 
about the calculation and Santander provided some further details and explanations. 
Santander also offered £250 in recognition of the fact that thered been a long delay in 
providing Mr A with an outcome to his complaint.  
Mr A didnt accept Santanders offer. He referred his complaint to us in December 2022. 
Santander wrote to Mr A on 10 January 2023 to confirm some aspects of the calculation, 
that £250 was the final offer for stress and inconvenience and that the calculation included 
all of Mr As premiums and redress for the mortgage guarantee policy. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint. The investigator said that, as 
Santander had accepted that the advice was unsuitable, the issue to determine was if the 
redress offered by Santander was fair and in line with what wed expect.
The investigator set out Mr As concerns about the offer. But the investigator explained why 
he considered Santanders offer did take those matters into account. The investigators view 
was that Santander had acted in accordance with guidance from this service and the 
regulators expectations in respect of the redress offered. He thought £250 for distress and 
inconvenience was fair, taking into account that Santander had admitted that its timescales 
werent in line with what they shouldve been. The investigator didnt think Santander needed 
to do anything more.
Mr A remained unhappy. His outstanding mortgage was £70,488.72. That shouldve been 
paid off in 2014. He remained concerned about the interest hed paid since then, the 
application of 25% of the value of his pension fund and the offer of £250 for over two years 
delays in resolving his complaint. 
The investigator said hed ask Santander if it would be prepared to update its calculation to 
take account of the further interest which had become payable since Santanders offer had 
been made. But he maintained that what Santander had offered was what wed expect. 
Notwithstanding the interest paid since the offer had been made, the offer did put Mr A 
effectively in the position hed have been in if he hadnt had the pension mortgage in the first 
place. The investigator said that examples of compensation were available on our website. 
Mr A said he didnt think the offer of £250 for distress and inconvenience was sufficient, 
taking into account what we said on our website (some of which Mr A quoted), and the 
impact the matter had on him and his family, including the effect on his health. He thought 
compensation should be £1,500 or more.
The investigator maintained that the substantial offer of compensation coupled with the £250 
for the additional administrative errors was fair and reasonable. He told Mr A that Santander 
wasnt willing to update its offer. Its position was that it had upheld the complaint and made 
an offer to Mr A which hed chosen to reject. Hed then referred the matter to this service, 
seeking a higher amount of compensation. But wed concluded that what Santander had 
offered was correct. Santander had said it wouldnt be fair that Mr A should gain financially 
from delaying in accepting an offer which had been correctly calculated.  
Mr A queried why the payments made to Santander from December 2022, when the 
complaint was referred to us, hadnt been included in the final calculations when wed said 
they would be. Mr A suggested, if Santander wasnt expected to refund those payments, this 
service should accept liability as no explicit warnings of possible financial risks involved in 
referring a complaint were given. Mr A said he was in a worse financial position than in 
December 2022. 
The investigator said Santanders final response letter had set out Mr As options to repay 
his mortgage in full with Santander covering all the charges involved. The letter also said 
that, if Mr A didnt convert the mortgage to the capital repayment basis, then no adjustments 
would be made and the mortgage would remain on the pension basis. The investigator also 
clarified what hed said at the outset  that if he recommended alternative redress then hed 
ask for that to be brought up to date. On the basis that the calculation was carried out 
correctly and the position Mr A had been put into was that of someone whod taken out a 
repayment mortgage over the correct term, the offer made was fair and reasonable. 
It seemed Mr A had paid considerably less overall than if hed been advised to take out a 
repayment mortgage. Even though the advice was unsuitable, Mr A had saved around 
£38,829.18 over the term. The investigator said, had he recommended a different method of 
redress, that might have been taken into account and impacted on the calculation. As to 
timescales, our introductory email makes it clear how long it may take for the complaint to 
reach an investigator. 
Mr A said the investigator had told him very clearly that any further interest payments made 
from when the case was referred to us would be included in the calculations. Mr A 
maintained Santanders offer wasnt fair as hed have paid off his mortgage nearly ten years 
ago. That had been compounded by the fact that when hed raised his complaint with 
Santander hed been ignored. He didnt accept that hed paid considerably less overall than 
if hed had a repayment mortgage. He said, on the one hand, Santander had admitted that 
the product hed been sold was unsuitable yet the regulator said it didnt really matter as he 
was allegedly better off. Mr A didnt think Santander or this service had clearly demonstrated 
how hed purportedly saved around £38,829.18.
Mr A supplied a spreadsheet which showed interest payments hed made from March 1989 
to July 2023 towards the outstanding mortgage of £70,530, including direct payments received by Santander under the MIRAS (Mortgage Interest Relief at Source) scheme. He 
said, as Santander had admitted liability and concluded he shouldve paid off his mortgage 
by March 2014, he expected a full refund of the interest hed paid from April 2014 up to date. 
Again the investigator considered Mr As points before responding. The redress calculation 
showed two losses. The first was in respect of Mr As position until 2014 and showed a loss 
of £70,488.73. The second represented overpaid interest from 2014 to the date of the loss 
calculation, which was £14,287.02 after subtracting 25% of the pension fund value. That was 
a refund of the interest paid since 2014, when the mortgage shouldve ended. Mr A was 
effectively getting £29,472.94 back but reduced by 25% of his pension fund value which was 
in line with the guidance. If he accepted the offer, based on an outstanding mortgage 
balance of £70,530, the £92,844.22 offered would repay the mortgage in full (with no 
charges as detailed in the offer) and leave Mr A with £22,314.22 in compensation to account 
for the overpaid interest. That was on top of being able to retain 25% of his pension fund 
value which wouldve previously been used to repay the debt.
There were some further exchanges. The investigator provided Mr A with copies of our 
correspondence with Santander during our investigation of the complaint. Mr A wasnt happy 
with some of the investigators communications with Santander.  
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first point out that we arent the regulator  thats the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Our role isnt to fine or punish businesses. We determine individual complaints by reference 
to what we consider is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. Our aim 
in awarding redress in a complaint that unsuitable advice has been given is to try and put the 
consumer, as far as possible, back in the position theyd be in if theyd been given suitable 
advice.  
Santander accepts that a pension mortgage wasnt suitable for Mr A and that he shouldve 
had a repayment mortgage instead. So, like the investigator, Ive focused on whether 
Santanders offer as to how Mr A should be compensated is fair and reasonable and puts 
him in the position hed be in now if hed had a repayment mortgage instead. 
Ive concentrated on the methodology thats been adopted as we dont have access to the 
details used to complete the calculation, such as historic interest rates over the term of the 
mortgage and Mr As payment history. So, we dont check the detail of the calculation but 
whether its been done on the basis we and the regulator would expect  our approach 
follows guidance introduced by the then regulator in 2001 for mortgage endowment 
complaints. 
There are two parts to the calculation. The first involves considering if theres been a capital 
loss. Here Santander has calculated that Mr A has suffered a capital loss of £70,488.73. The 
second element is whether the pension mortgage was more expensive than a repayment 
mortgage  that is whether Mr As monthly payments were higher because he had a pension 
mortgage.  But here that wasnt the case and a repayment mortgage wouldve been more 
expensive  Mr A wouldve paid some £38,829.18 more. 
In line with the guidance that notional saving should be ignored. Santander has done that 
the £38,829.18 hasnt been taken into account. Thats because Mr A wouldnt have been aware at the time that he was saving money by not having a repayment mortgage and hed 
have arranged his day to day expenditure based on his known outgoings. So it wouldnt be 
fair to deduct the money hed unknowingly saved. Santander has also taken into account 
25% of the value of the pension fund. It can do that as it was intended that money  the tax 
free cash  wouldve been used to repay the mortgage. The offer includes a refund of the 
interest payments that have accrued since March 2014 to when the offer was made with 
interest at 8% pa (less tax) on top. 
Santanders offer is in line with what Id expect to see.
I think Mr A has two main concerns about the offer. The first is the interest payments hes 
made since 2014. The second is the £250 offered for distress and inconvenience which he 
doesnt think is sufficient. 
Looking first at the interest payments Mr A has made since 2014, I do of course understand 
his argument that, if his mortgage had been paid off in 2014, then no further payments 
wouldve been due. But, as Ive said, Santanders offer does take into account those 
payments. Or at least payments up to the date of Santanders offer. Santander isnt prepared 
to refund the interest payments Mr A has made after then.  
On the one hand, I can understand why Mr A may have been unsure if Santanders offer 
was fair and such that he should accept it. The calculation is complex and a consumer may 
not find all aspects easy to understand. So I can understand there might be some initial 
reluctance to accept the offer. But, from Santanders perspective, I can see why, having 
made an offer which weve agreed was in line with what wed expect but which Mr A didnt 
accept, Santander wasnt prepared to increase its offer to cover further interest payments 
which wouldnt have become due if Mr A had accepted the offer and paid off the mortgage. 
On balance, Im not going to say that Santander should recalculate its offer up to date. It 
made an offer which was in line with guidance from the regulator as to how redress should 
be calculated. I dont think it would be fair to say Santander should cover the further interest 
payments that have accrued in the interim. 
  
Mr A has said we didnt explicitly warn him that might happen. And hes said he was given to 
understand by our investigator that the calculation would be updated. I think there may have 
been some misunderstanding about that. The investigator has said that would only have 
been if hed thought that a different approach to redress should prevail. Im sorry if there was 
some confusion. But Im not looking here at how we dealt with Mr As complaint. My role 
here is to assess what Santander has done and whether what Santander has offered is fair 
and reasonable. 
Mr A is also dissatisfied with the £250 offered for distress and inconvenience. Hes 
understandably unhappy with the time it took Santander to look into his complaint and issue 
its offer. Hes said he had to speak to different members of Santanders staff about the same 
complaint for over two years. Hes also concerned that hes still making interest payments 
some 33 years later and hes still got an outstanding mortgage of over £70,000. Hes 
referred to the stress having impacted on his health. 
I do of course accept that this matter wouldve been very worrying for Mr A. Although it might 
be difficult to establish that the health condition hes referred to was directly and solely 
caused by this issue, it certainly wont have helped. I can understand why Mr A considers 
higher compensation than the £250 Santander has offered is merited. As Mr A has pointed 
out, we say on our website that an award of over £750 and up to around £1,500 could be fair 
where the impact of a businesss mistake has caused substantial distress, worry and upset. 
So Ive thought very carefully about if £250 is adequate here. On balance I think it was. I bear in mind that Santander did include in its offer compensation 
for the further interest payments Mr A had made while his complaint was being looked into  
from March 2014 up to when Santanders offer was made. So he was directly financially 
compensated for the time Santander took to look into his complaint and the further payments 
he had to make in the interim. 
Mr A might say that didnt negate the stress and worry he suffered while Santander was 
considering the matter. But I take into consideration that, while the extra costs Mr A wouldve 
incurred if hed had a repayment mortgage havent been deducted from his losses, the 
money he saved was very substantial. I dont think its unreasonable to allow for that when 
assessing fair compensation for distress and inconvenience. And Santanders offer meant 
Mr As mortgage could be repaid in full so hed no longer have a shortfall and the worry of 
how he was going to meet it. 
Against that background, Im not going to say that Santander needs to offer more 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
I know Mr A is likely to remain disappointed. But from what Ive seen the redress offered by 
Santander is fair and reasonable and in line with what wed expect. So Im not going to say 
that Santander needs to do anything more.
My final decision
Santander UK plc has offered to settle Mr As complaint as set out in Santander UK plcs 
letter of 21 September 2022 and follow up correspondence. I think thats fair in all the 
circumstances. 
So my decision is that Santander UK plc should settle Mr As complaint as offered.     
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman