DRN-3169064
The complaint
Mrs M complains that City Financial Planning Limited (CFP) didnt provide her with advice 
and allowed her to take pension benefits inappropriately, resulting in a liability to income tax. 
She wants the tax paid re-imbursed and compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
What happened
Mrs Ms pension plan had been arranged by CFP. Shed taken the tax-free lump sum from 
this in 2018. In September 2019 she emailed her adviser at CFP asking to:
chat to you about withdrawing some of my pension and the tax implications.
Mrs M says she knew there would be tax on the withdrawal but not the details. She says she 
wanted to receive around £30,000 from her pension plan as her current outgoings exceeded 
her income and she wanted to move to a larger property with her partner. A meeting was 
arranged with CFP and Mrs M says the adviser couldnt calculate the tax involved but said it 
might be around £5,000. She says she was left with a withdrawal form to complete if she 
wanted to proceed.
Mrs M says about a week later she emailed the adviser about the likely tax involved. He 
replied a few days later saying hed processed a withdrawal of £40,000 as this should be 
enough to provide £30,000 after tax. Mrs M says she was shocked to find nearly £10,000 in 
tax had been deducted. She complained to CFP that the withdrawal had been made without 
her authority. She said shed been misled and given no help or advice at all. And that she 
should have been given a suitability report about whether:
given the amount of tax payable it was right to withdraw all the Money at once or 
had it paid gradually. 
CFP rejected Mrs Ms complaint. It said it hadnt given her any advice and had only 
processed her instruction. It said the advisers notes referred to tax of around £7,000 and 
that Mrs M had agreed to rounding up the withdrawal to £40,000 to ensure that the target of 
£30,000 net of tax was available. It queried why Mrs M thought the withdrawal had been 
increased to £40,000 if the tax was only going to be around £5,000.
Mrs M referred her complaint to our service. She said having made the withdrawal her plans 
changed, and she hadnt moved to a larger home. And she should have been advised to 
take a regular income payment of around £200 from the pension to cover her outgoings 
rather than a lump sum incurring more tax. She disputed that the adviser had told her the tax 
would be around £7,000, saying he said it would be £5,000 and that CFP shouldnt have 
processed the withdrawal before confirming what tax was payable.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but he didnt uphold it. 
He said he didnt think CFP had provided Mrs M with a recommendation. He said he 
considered she hadnt requested an advice meeting but only a withdrawal from her plan and 
information on the tax implications of doing so. He said the client agreement between CFP 
and Mrs M didnt require it to provide her with advice. And, if advice wasnt being provided a 
suitability report wasnt required and CFP didnt have to consider other options before 
processing the withdrawal. 
Our investigator said CFPs notes of the meeting recorded the amount required as Net 
£30k Approx £7k tax  probably emergency tax. He said that allowing for around £7,000 
in income tax and the impact of any emergency tax applied gave the £40,000 gross figure 
the adviser had mentioned. He said he didnt think CFP had acted unfairly in not giving an 
exact figure for the tax.
Mrs M disagreed, making several further points:
She disagreed her email was a request to make a withdrawal and not a request for 
advice. She said she had repeatedly and explicitly asked for advice about how to 
withdraw a lump sum and the tax implications of this. And had she known how to do 
this she wouldnt have contacted CFP,
She disputed the notes were written shortly after the meeting with her, saying it was 
more likely these were written after shed complained to CFP,
She said the adviser hadnt explained that the tax would be more than £5,000 or that 
there would be emergency tax,
She said no illustration had been provided to her and she hadnt consented to the 
withdrawal request being made.  
She said CFP had a duty of care to understand a clients situation, particularly when 
they were in financial difficulty and were an inexperienced investor,
And, In hindsight, drawdown was an inappropriate solution for me at the time and 
the adviser would have known this had he completed a factfind.  
As Mrs M doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint. I know this will disappoint Mrs M, so Ill 
explain why.
Mrs M says she asked for advice, CFP that she did not and that none was provided. Where 
there is a dispute about what was said I need to consider the other evidence available to 
decide on the balance of probability what I think happened. 
Having done so I think Mrs Ms initial email was a request to access some funds and a query 
about the tax position of doing so, rather than an explicit request for advice about her overall 
financial position. And I havent seen any evidence that suggests she subsequently asked 
for advice or that any recommendation was provided by CFP. There was no regulatory 
requirement for Mrs M to be provided with advice to access her pension benefits in this way. 
And the client agreement between Mrs M and CFP didnt provide for any ongoing advice to 
be provided. So, I dont think CFP had an obligation to offer Mrs M advice. 
In terms of the tax payable on the withdrawal, Mrs M says she knew there would be tax, but 
the adviser hadnt explained this would be more than £5,000. The very brief meeting notes 
provided by CFP show a rough calculation of what the tax might be considering Mrs Ms 
existing income. The notes dont record why the funds were required or any other 
considerations. Mrs M disputes these notes were written at the time. I havent seen any evidence that this was the case and I dont think it changes the situation as Mrs M wanted 
£30,000 net of tax and basic rate tax was always going to be more than around £5,000. 
And the only query Mrs M raised with CFP after the meeting was an email asking for an 
update on the figure to enter on the withdrawal form. Rather than a chase for CFPs advice 
on what she should do. 
The adviser replied: 
I have been trying to get a straight answer on how much we need to draw to get a 
net £30,000.
As no one could give me a definitive answer I have arranged for a withdrawal of 
£40,000 which would hopefully give enough 
I have been able to make the withdrawal on-line for you  and the money should be 
in your bank account by next week.
Mrs M didnt respond to this email to query why the figure was so high if she expected the 
tax to be only around £5,000. I think this suggests that the notes which refer to approx £7k 
tax probably emergency tax do reflect what was discussed at the meeting. It is around the 
right level of tax assuming basic rate tax at 20%. So, I think Mrs M was aware of the likely 
tax liability and the potential for additional emergency tax to be applied by HMRC, which 
required a higher gross figure to be requested to ensure £30,000 was available. 
If Mrs M wasnt happy with this, I think she likely would have contacted CFP to clarify 
matters further or to stop the withdrawal, which may still have been possible, if she didnt 
wish to proceed. As she didnt, I dont think CFP was instructing anything shed not 
consented to. I think her primary objective, at the time, was to receive around £30,000 net of 
tax, promptly. She knew tax was payable, and the exact amount of tax was of secondary 
importance to that. 
CFP has also provided a copy of an undated letter it says was sent to Mrs M subsequently 
confirming the withdrawal. It sets out a figure for the likely tax due of £7,045, but says 
emergency tax may be applied, so a gross withdrawal of £40,000 had been requested and 
any excess tax could be reclaimed. 
Mrs M has told our service that having received the withdrawal her plans changed. And she 
didnt move to a larger property and therefore didnt require the funds, which are now held on 
deposit. She says that her typical monthly outgoings are around £200 more than her income. 
And with hindsight, CFP should have advised her to take this much each month from the 
pension. As this would have been more tax efficient instead of a large withdrawal leaving 
only around £5,000 in her pension plan. 
But theres no other evidence that these other points were mentioned, and Mrs Ms objective 
at the time, was to withdraw £30,000 net to facilitate moving to a larger property. And as 
CFP wasnt providing her with advice, it wasnt obliged to consider the wider position 
including whether her plans might change.
So, taking everything into account, whilst I sympathise with Mrs Ms situation, I dont think 
CFP has treated her unfairly or unreasonably. I think the adviser was trying to be helpful in 
processing her instructions expediently and wasnt providing her with advice as she hadnt 
requested it to. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman