DRN-3963086
The complaint
Ms D says Oplo PL Ltd, trading as 1st Stop Personal Loans, irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Ms D took out a 30-month instalment loan from Oplo on 14 February 2018. It was for £3,000
and the monthly repayments were £137.20 The total repayable was £4,116.
Ms D says Oplo did not complete adequate checks before lending to her. She had a
gambling addiction and relied on payday loans  proper checks would have shown this. She
had problems making her repayments within a few months and this lending has impacted
her mental health. Ms D asks for the interest and charges she has paid to be refunded, with
statutory interest, and for any negative information to be removed from her credit file.
Our investigator said Oplo was wrong to lend to Ms D. He concluded the lenders checks
were not proportionate and had Oplo had completed better checks it would have realised it
was most likely the loan would not be sustainably affordable for Ms D. He set out what Oplo
should do to put things right.
Oplo disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. In summary, it said the results of its
initial checks did not show anything that should have triggered further checks or give it
reason to doubt Ms Ds explanation for recent borrowing. It maintains it made a fair lending
decision based on the information it gathered.
I reached the same conclusion as the investigator, but planned to change how things must
be put right. I therefore issued a provisional decision, an extract follows and forms part of 
this final decision. I asked both parties to send any comment by 14 February 2023.
An extract from my provisional decision
I can see Oplo asked for certain information from Ms D before it approved the loan. It asked
for details of her income and employment. It used a third-party income verification service to
check her salary and an extract from a bank statement to check her benefits. It estimated
her likely living costs. It also checked her credit file to understand her existing monthly credit
commitments, including her mortgage contribution, and credit history. It asked about the
purpose of the loan which was home improvements. From these checks combined Oplo
concluded the loan was affordable for Ms D and would leave her with £312.51 of monthly
disposable income.
Im not persuaded Oplos checks were proportionate given the initial results. I say this as
they showed Ms D was already spending around 30% of her income on unsecured
consumer credit and was at her limit on her two credit cards. Whilst Ms Ds active accounts
were up-to-date Oplo could see she had struggled financially in the past as there was
adverse information on her file and many payday loans. Oplo argues the defaults were
historic; the credit cards were barely over their limit with no missed payments; and the
payday loans were all settled at that time. This is accurate, but I am not saying these factors
in isolation were a reason to decline Ms Ds application. However I do think they should have
prompted Oplo to do more to get the assurances it needed that Ms Ds financial pressures
were firmly in the past. Ms D would need to be able to make her repayments sustainably for
30 months, so in the circumstances I think it ought to have completed a fuller financial
review.
I have reviewed Ms Ds bank statements from the months prior to this application. I am not
saying Oplo had to do this, but it is a way for me to recreate what better checks would most
likely have shown. Her statements show, consistent with her testimony, that she was
spending a significant amount of her income on gambling (over £1,200 in December 2017
and £500 in January 2018). Had Oplo seen this in its checks I think it, as a responsible
lender, would have concluded there was a risk Ms D would be unable to repay this loan
without suffering financial harm.
What further persuades me that Oplos lending decision was wrong is the amount of
her income Ms D would need to spend ongoing to manage her unsecured credit
commitments as this would rise to 37%. Oplo argues the FLA does not set an acceptable
percentage, and this figure should not be looked at in isolation. Its affordability assessment
showed Ms D would have over £300 disposable income. But had Oplo completed
proportionate checks I think it would have had the context needed to see that in this case
Ms Ds finances were already under duress and that it was most likely this level of spend on
credit would cause further detriment. And to meet its regulatory obligations Oplo had to
consider this, not just the pounds and pence affordability. I note Ms D only managed to make
the first four payments before falling into arrears.
It follows I think Oplo was wrong to give the loan to Ms D.
I havent seen any evidence Oplo acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way towards
Ms D.
I then set out what Oplo would need to do to put things right if I went on to upheld Ms Ds 
complaint. 
Ms D replied saying she had no further information to add and was happy with the 
provisional decision.
Oplo replied maintaining its decision was fair. It said, in summary, Ms Ds credit file showed 
her financial pressures were in the past and its checks (automated confirmation of income, 
national statistics for living costs and a credit check) were proportionate and showed the 
loan to be sustainably affordable. Ms D had also explained that a one-off unexpected cost 
was why she struggled after four payments. Finally, it said as Ms D had only repaid 
£2,408.80 of the £3,000 borrowed prior to the debt sale there would be no refund due if the 
complaint went on to be upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and 
Ive followed it here.
I have considered Oplos additional comments carefully but they do not change my 
conclusion. I will explain why.
Oplo argues that its checks showed Ms Ds financial instability was historic. But as I said I think there were sufficient red flags for it have done further checks so it could know with 
certainty this was the case. These flags were the proportion of her income she already 
needed to use to meet her unsecured credit commitments, the fact she was at her limit on 
her two credit cards and her history of using payday loans. Had the additional checks not 
shown any financial pressure I would have found Oplos lending decision to be fair. Oplo 
argues my findings are subjective, but as it knows there is no set list of checks a lender has 
to complete. In assessing whether or not a lenders checks are proportionate, in addition to 
considering the nature of the browning and the circumstances of the applicant, we look at 
how the lender reacted to the information it gathered. And here I remain of the view that the 
initial checks revealed certain data that should have prompted Oplo to do more. And for the 
reasons set out above I find this would have led it, as a responsible lender, to make a 
different lending decision.  
Finally, as Oplo itself concurs it cannot know definitively why Ms D struggled to maintain the 
loan repayments. I cannot therefore see that Oplos point that Ms D said it was due to a one-
off unplanned expense - whilst also accepting this may have been to mask the gambling  
should have any bearing on the outcome here.
In the round, I think Oplo was wrong to give the loan to Ms D.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I set out what Oplo would need to do. I said:
 
Its reasonable for Ms D to have repaid the capital amount that she borrowed as she had
the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been given to her.
I understand Oplo has sold the outstanding balance of the loan to a third party, and it is now
subject to a County Court Judgment (CCJ) after the new owner took court action. Ms D has
asked that the County Court Judgment be set aside if we find the loan was given
irresponsibly. I would make two comments in this regard. Firstly, the court action was not
taken by Oplo, but by the new owner of the debt - Oplo sold the debt on 17 August 2022.
Secondly, irrespective of this, we do not have the powers to set aside a CCJ or to change
the amount outstanding under a CCJ, or the reporting of it to the credit reference agencies.
The court decided the judgment was appropriate and Ms D would need to have challenged
that with the court.
So, taking into account these circumstances, to put things right Oplo should:
Calculate the total value of all interest and charges applied to the loan that Ms D paid
to Oplo
Refund this amount to Ms D with 8% simple interest calculated from the date of
payment to the date of settlement*
Ms D can then use the refund to repay any debt still outstanding under the CCJ.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oplo to deduct tax from this interest. Oplo should give Ms D a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
Oplo responded to say that if it followed my provisional decision, then Ms D wouldnt be due 
any refund. But, in the individual circumstances here, my decision is intended to ensure that 
Ms D is put in a situation where shes not unduly disadvantaged by Oplos decision to lend 
when it was unaffordable. As a part of this, I dont think she should have to repay any interest and charges applied to the loan and that these should be refunded to her directly. 
Ms D can then use those to reduce the outstanding balance, if she wishes.
In making this decision Ive considered whats happened to the loan since Ms D took it out 
and the current position of the loan and the debt. In light of this, I think that Oplo should 
refund Ms D any interest and charges she paid whilst it was administering the loan to her 
directly, rather than using this amount to reduce the debt which is now subject to a CCJ - 
meaning we cannot order any change to the amount outstanding under it.
It follows I am not changing my instructions as to how Oplo must put things right.
My final decision
I am upholding Ms Ds complaint. Oplo PL Ltd, trading as 1st Stop Personal Loans, must put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman