DRN-4483330
The complaint
Ms G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund money she lost 
in an investment scam.
What happened
What Ms G says:
Ms G followed someone on Instagram who was making posts about the money he was 
making on a particular investment. Ms G got a message from the person, who said hed 
been investing and making money from the investment. She found out that the business was 
advertising products online with Amazon and seemed to get good (94%) reviews. The 
company appeared to be registered at Companies House. 
The introducer said she would get a 50% return on the investment, but if she invested 
£10,000 he would take a commission of 18%. Ms G made an initial investment of £10,000 in 
cash  withdrawn from another (non-NatWest) bank account.
Ms G received regular payments to her bank account  four payments totalling £7,400 over 
four months. So  she was confident the investment was worthwhile. She was asked to 
make a further investment, which she thought was a good idea, given the returns she was 
making.
In September 2018, she sent a further £10,000 in two payments, from her NatWest savings 
account - to two different bank accounts:
Date Type/Beneficiary Amount
24 September 2018  23.05 Faster payment from savings 
account /to bank account (1)£5,000
24 September 2018  23.07 Faster payment from savings 
account /to bank account (2)£5,000
Total loss £10,000
After making the two investments, the payments to Ms G stopped. On WhatsApp messages, 
she was fobbed off. She was told that the investment accounts were under investigation. 
She contacted the director of the company who said smaller returns of £500 per month 
would be sent, but nothing arrived. Ms G then realised she had been scammed.
Ms G says NatWest shouldve done more to protect her. The payments were made from her 
savings account and were unusual in nature. They werent stopped or questioned by the 
bank. 
Since the scam, Ms G says she has been stressed and has difficulty in her personal life. She 
was suffering with her mental health and has lost all her savings and as a result, has had to 
move back in with her parents because of her losses. Ms G said NatWest should refund 
£10,000 plus 8% per annum interest, plus compensation of £250.
What NatWest said:
NatWest said the scam wasnt reported when it took place in 2018. In May 2023, NatWest 
responded to Ms Gs complaint. They didnt uphold it and said:
- The payments were made in accordance with Ms Gs instructions and bank mandate.
- NatWest would only question the payments if there were grounds to suspect the 
payments would result in a customer being a victim of fraud.
- A message wouldve been displayed on the online banking screen before making a 
payment to a new payee (which these were). This warned of the types of scams 
being seen. Customers had to confirm they were confident theyd read and 
understood the advice.
- If a payment triggered a known fraud trend, it wouldve been stopped  and they 
didnt in this case.
Our investigation so far:
Ms G brought her complaint to us via her representatives. Our investigator didnt uphold it. 
She said:
- The Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM) didnt apply as it predated the 
scam  it came into being in May 2019.
- NatWest shouldve intervened in the second payment. This was because the other 
transactions on Ms Gs savings account were to /from her current account, and not 
external payments. And the payments in question were to two new external payees.
- But even if NatWest had intervened, she said it wouldnt have made a difference as 
1) she had previously made an investment of £10,000 and was making good returns 
2) the Amazon reviews were positive 3) she checked Companies House and there 
appeared to be a genuine limited company in the name of the investment prospect.
- So even if NatWest had intervened, she thought Ms G wouldve answered NatWests 
questions and wouldve gone ahead anyway.
Ms G didnt agree. She said that if probing questions had been asked, they wouldve put her 
on notice that the promised returns were unrealistic, the contact was via social media, and 
that more money was being requested. Ms G asked that an ombudsman look at her 
complaint, and so it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Im sorry to hear that Ms G has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that she 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Ms G didnt intend for 
the money to go to a scammer, she is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider NatWest should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it came into effect in May 2019  after the payments in 
question.
I need to decide whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms G when 
she made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered 
the position carefully.
The first consideration here is: if the payment was of a sufficient size and was out of 
character with how Ms G normally used her savings account  then we would expect 
NatWest to have intervened and spoken to her about it.  I looked at Ms Gs account, and its 
fair to say that the payments were unusual compared to the way in which she normally used 
it. It was a savings account, and there were no other payments to external parties during the 
previous eight months (the period I looked at). The only transactions were transfers to and 
from her current account. 
The two payments in question were made within a few minutes of each other. So even if 
NatWest allowed the first one, I agree that it wouldve been reasonable to have stopped the 
second payment and contacted Ms G about what was happening.
We would have expected them to ask open questions such as:
- Why are you making the payment?
- Who to?
- For what purpose?
- How did you hear about the investment?
- How were you contacted about it?
- Where did the money come from that youre investing?
- How were you given the bank account details where the money was to be paid to?Would intervention by NatWest have made a difference?
But thats not the end of the story here. I must consider if it wouldve made a difference if 
NatWest had asked those questions - would Ms G have still gone ahead? And I consider she 
would have as:
- Importantly, she had already made a significant return of £7,400 on the first cash 
investment of £10,000  within a short period of time. 
- This was paid in four instalments over four months  as she had been promised.
- So  it looked like the investment was working to her advantage (even though this 
may have been part of the scam).
- She had done her own research which showed good reviews on Amazon, and she 
thought the company was registered at Companies House (in fact, I can see the 
company was registered in March 2019  so that couldnt have been the case).
So  Im persuaded that even if NatWest had intervened, Ms G would have gone ahead 
anyway, and any intervention would not have made a difference. Therefore, I dont think I 
can reasonably hold NatWest liable for Ms Gs losses here.
Recovery
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes
place. I looked at whether NatWest took the necessary steps in contacting the banks that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost money. They showed us what they did. 
And one bank said no money remained, while the other bank didnt respond. But here  I 
consider that given the passage of time since the scam took place (five years)  its very 
unlikely that any funds could be recovered from the second bank in any case.
Ms G has lost a lot of money. Shes explained why the money was important to her, and the 
impact her losses have had. I was sorry to learn of her circumstances. She will therefore be 
disappointed by my decision, but Im not going to ask NatWest to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman