DRN-3990831
The complaint
Mr W has complained that CST Wealth Management Limited (CST) gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer his defined benefits from his occupational pension scheme (OPS)  the 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in her 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ws employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor 
scheme, BSPS 2, the PPF or into a private arrangement, such as a SIPP.
A fact find completed by CST for Mr W recorded the following information:
He was 41 and married.
He had two dependent children.
He was employed earning around £38,000 pa, including bonuses.
He was in good health, although he was under the care of a specialist for a specific 
condition.
His wife worked part time and had no pension arrangements.
They owned their home jointly, which was valued at around £208,500
They had an outstanding repayment mortgage of £103,000 which was due to be 
repaid by the time he was 63.
They had no protection plans in place in the event of death or illness.
Their outgoings were around £1,900 pm.
They had just over £11,000 in savings.
He had a medium attitude to investment risk.
His capacity for loss was also medium.
He planned to retire at age 67.
Mr Ws BSPS benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of around £315,000 at 
the time of the advice. He had accrued a deferred pension of approximately £12,700 pa. 
That was projected by CST to be worth just over £23,200 pa when he reached the schemes 
normal retirement age of 65. It would be payable until death and would increase annually. 
He also had the option to commute some of his entitlement for a tax-free cash lump sum and 
reduced pension at retirement.
In the event of his death, the scheme provided benefits to his family in several ways. It 
included a spouses pension of 50%, a dependants allowance for his children, and a return 
of his contributions which were worth just over £41,600 at that time.
He had no other deferred pensions although he was a contributing member of his employers
defined contribution scheme which hed joined in April 2017. The combined employer and 
employee contributions totalled 18% of his salary. It was noted he would receive his state 
pension at age 67 and post-sale that was confirmed to be worth £159 pw.
CST produced a Transfer Value Analysis Report (TVAS) which was based on a retirement 
age of 65 and produced a critical yield of 6.11% pa if benefits were taken in the form of a 
reduced pension plus pension commencement lump sum (PCLS), or 7.29% pa if all benefits 
were taken as a pension.
CST recommended that Mr W accept the CETV and move it to an AJ Bell SIPP. It further 
recommended that the funds then be invested with Brewin Dolphin, a Discretionary Fund
Manager (DFM), in a cautious with risk portfolio. A suitability report explaining the 
recommendation was produced on 14 September 2017 and was accompanied by a Key 
Features Document and a personal Illustration for the SIPP, along with a cash flow 
modelling projection.
The suitability report said Mr W wanted to:
Secure the generous transfer value.
Have the option to retire earlier than 65 without a loss of entitlement/benefit and 
without taking a reduction in his pension.
Have the option to take an income of £20,000 per annum from age 65.
Have any residual funds distributed to his wife and children in the event of his death 
and to his children solely in the event of both he and his wife passing away.
It also said the critical yield could not be guaranteed to be achieved. However, CST was
recommending the transfer because:
The new plan provided flexi-access drawdown which would allow him flexibility and 
tax efficiency when drawing retirement income.
The value of the funds would not be subject to inheritance tax and could provide a
legacy for future beneficiaries.
Leaving the benefits within BSPS would mean his nominated beneficiaries would 
potentially receive nothing from the scheme.
A transfer would secure a much higher level of death benefits over the longer term.
The proposed plan carried an initial adviser charge of £3,150, based on 1% of the transfer
value, as well as an ongoing adviser charge of 0.5% of the fund value. In addition, a SIPP
establishment charge of £144 applied along with a Transfer In Charge of £72. A quarterlyadministration charge of £240 per annum was also applicable. 0.75% of the fund value 
would also be payable as an annual management charge to the DFM. So, the annual cost of 
the proposed plan would be in excess of 1.3% pa.
Mr W accepted the advice and, on 25 September 2017, he completed the discharge forms.
On 30 November 2017, a further TVAS was produced which was based on a retirement age 
of 57. It showed a critical yield of 8.06% was required and it was projected that on the 
illustrated drawdown basis, his fund would run out completely by age 88.
AJ Bell confirmed that it had received the CETV on 3 January 2018. CST provided ongoing
servicing to Mr W until June 2022 when Mr W moved the servicing of his account to a 
different financial adviser and raised his complaint with this service.
Having been asked to respond to the complaint, CST provided its final response letter on 25
October 2022.
It said it was declining to uphold Mr Ws complaint as it considered that the advice was 
appropriate for his circumstances and objectives, including investing his fund in the hope it 
might increase in value sufficiently to retire sooner than the normal BSPS scheme age of 65.
Mr W didnt accept that outcome and requested that this service consider the matter.
Having assessed the complaint, our investigator thought that it should be upheld. He said 
the following in summary:
The regulators guidance, when considering a transfer of defined benefits, was that it 
should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests.
The advice had been after the regulator had given instructions in final guidance 
FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future discount rates for complaints 
about transfers which were being upheld. Prior to that, this service was publishing 
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates. 
Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.
The critical yield to match the scheme benefits at age 65 was 6.11% and to match 
them at age 57 it was 8.06%. The discount rate to age 65 was 4.6% and, taking into 
account Mr Ws attitude to risk, along with the regulators mid band growth projection 
of 5% pa, it was unlikely that the scheme benefits could be bettered through 
transferring.
Mr W was over 20 years from retirement, and the suitability report set out that he 
didnt wish to set in his stone his wishes at the time. But this was precisely what Mr 
W would be doing by accepting CSTs recommendation and making the irreversible 
decision to transfer out. Mr W had a low expectation of essential expenditure by 
retirement and it was likely that the BSPS benefits would meet his needs. Further, by 
transferring to the BSPS 2, Mr W would have had the option of transferring and 
taking benefits flexibly nearer to retirement if requiredAccording to the TVAS, the post transfer fund would run out by age 91 if he retired at 
65, and by age 88 if he retired at 57. It didnt seem that this information had been 
provided to Mr W prior to his agreement to transfer. Further, Mr W didnt have the 
capacity for loss, in terms of other assets, to tolerate the financial risk of that being 
borne out.
Exhausting his pension funds would provide no lump sum legacy for his family, which 
hadnt in any case been demonstrated to be required, but the purpose of retirement 
benefits was to provide an income for the retiree. If Mr Ws family had required a 
lump sum in addition to the death in service benefits and those which would be 
provided by the defined contribution plan, this could have been addressed by looking 
into separate life cover.
The investigator recommended that CST undertake a loss calculation in accordance with the 
regulators guidance (FG17/9) for such complaints  and on the basis that Mr W would have 
opted to join the BSPS 2.
But the investigator also noted the regulators consultation on a revised methodology and 
enquired of Mr W as to whether, if the complaint was upheld, his preference would be to 
have a loss calculation undertaken on the existing basis, or to await the new methodology 
for defined benefit transfer redress calculations.
He said that any redress should in the first instance be paid to Mr Ws pension plan, but if 
this wasnt possible, it should be paid directly to Mr W, with a notional deduction for the 
(assumed basic rate) income tax he would have paid on the pension benefits.
Neither party submitted further comments on the merits of the case. The (new) investigator 
then wrote to both parties to confirm that the FCA had developed a BSPS-specific redress 
calculator to calculate redress for cases which were included in the BSPS consumer redress 
scheme. But, she said, the FCA was also encouraging businesses to use the calculator for 
non-scheme cases.
The investigator further said that, when issuing my decision, I may require CST to use the
FCAs BSPS-specific calculator to determine any redress due to Mr W.
The investigator said that if either party didnt think it was appropriate to use the BSPS-
specific redress calculator in the circumstances of Mr Ws complaint, they should let her
know by 8 June 2023.
CST confirmed that it would be using the BSPS-specific redress calculator if an ombudsman 
upheld the complaint.
But as agreement hasnt been reached on the outcome of the complaint, its been referred to 
me for review.
CST has since indicated that, whilst it doesnt know the precise current value of Mr Ws 
SIPP, its estimate is that he has suffered no loss according to the redress calculator.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of CST's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 deal with the obligations when giving a personal recommendation 
and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 specifically relate to a defined 
benefit pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a defined benefit scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, 
CST should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer 
was in Mr Ws best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The TVAS report which CST was required to carry out by the regulator said that the 
critical yield - how much Mr Ws pension fund would need to grow by each year in 
order to provide the same benefits as his defined benefit scheme  was 6.11% to age 
65. Or to match the scheme benefits at age 57, it was 8.06%. 
Mr W was recorded as having a medium attitude to risk, but CST itself said in the 
suitability report that this should translate into a more cautious investment strategy to 
take into account what Mr W had told it about being very cautious by nature in 
respect of his BSPS benefits. I think this would in any case be somewhat at odds 
with the very principle of the transfer, where all the investment risk would thereafter 
be borne by Mr W. But I think the cautious with risk mandate to be adopted within 
the SIPP was likely to be a reasonable description of the type of risk rating which was 
appropriate for Mr W. 
Given this, along with the discount rate of 4.6% to age 65, and the regulators middle 
projection rate for growth (5% pa), I think Mr W was more likely than not to receive 
pension benefits, from age 57 or 65, of a lower value that those hed have been 
entitled to under the BSPS 2 (or the PPF) by transferring and investing in line with 
that attitude to risk. 
Early retirement may well have been appealing to Mr W, as it might reasonably be 
appealing to a great many people, but he had no clear or pressing plans to do so, 
which I think is understandable for a 41 year old. Mr W said that he intended to retire at age 67, although he wished to have the option to retire earlier. Mr Ws 
circumstances may in any case have changed significantly between then and 
retirement. 
In terms of the alternative lump sum benefits a transfer offered to his family, the 
priority here was to advise Mr W about what was best for his retirement. And the 
existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses (and dependants) 
pension, which could have been valuable to his wife and two dependent children in 
the event of his death.
Whilst the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it would have also 
been reduced by any income Mr W drew in his lifetime. And given that the drawdown 
income from the transferred funds was predicted to run out by ages 88 or 91 
(dependent upon whether Mr W retired at 57 or 65 respectively) this may well not 
have provided the legacy that Mr W may have thought it would. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W. As set out by the investigator, there 
was no clear rationale as to why such lump sum benefits, beyond those which would 
in any case be provided by the death in service provision and the defined 
contributions accrual, would be required. And ultimately CST shouldnt have 
encouraged Mr W to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a 
SIPP over his security in retirement.
Any desire Mr W had for flexibility could have been addressed by utilising his defined 
contribution accrual when he came to retire. He would, by the age of 65, have had 
some 24 years defined contributions, which, given the overall contribution from him 
and his employer, would likely have been significant.  
The suitability report didnt specifically record that Mr W had concerns about the 
prospects for the BSPS. But even if he did - and I acknowledge that this wasnt an 
uncommon sentiment at the time amongst his colleagues - at the time of the advice, 
all signs pointed toward the BSPS 2 being established. But even if not, the PPF still 
provided Mr W with guaranteed income, the option of accessing tax-free cash, and 
early retirement. Mr W was unlikely to improve on these benefits by transferring. 
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons as to why it was clearly in Mr Ws best interest to 
relinquish his defined benefits and transfer them to a SIPP, especially with so many years to 
go to retirement. And I also havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr W would have 
insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the defined benefit scheme. 
So, as with the investigator, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr W received 
from CST was unsuitable.Putting things right
As set out in the investigators further comments relating to the BSPS-specific redress 
calculator, I consider that it would be appropriate to use that calculator here, given the 
BSPS-specific circumstances.
Ive noted what CST has said more recently about Mr W likely having suffered no loss as a 
result of the transfer. And this may be the case. But it should now undertake the calculation 
to determine this.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W would 
more likely than not have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join 
the BSPS 2 if suitable advice had been given.
CST Wealth Management Limited must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with 
the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in 
policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
CST Wealth Management Limited should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to 
calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr W and our 
service upon completion of the calculation.
Mr W hasnt yet retired, and cannot do so for many years. Mr W expressed a keenness to 
have the option to retire early, rather than there being a clear plan to do so. As set out 
above, he said that he intended to work to at least age 65. Therefore, compensation should 
be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's 
guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ws
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, CST Wealth Management Limited should:
calculate and offer Mr W redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr W before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line with the 
cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment
their defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr W receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,if Mr W accepts CST Wealth Management Limiteds offer to calculate how much of its 
redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr 
W for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of its redress 
augmented,
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ws end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr W as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, businesses may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Ws likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require CST Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr W 
the compensation amount as set out above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I would also 
recommend that CST Wealth Management Limited pays Mr W the balance.
If Mr W accepts this final decision, the award will be binding on CST Wealth Management 
Limited.
My recommendation wouldnt be binding on CST Wealth Management Limited. Further, its 
unlikely that Mr W could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W 
may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my 
final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct CST Wealth Management Limited 
to undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman