DRN-2178914
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Swinton Group Ltd (Swinton) renewed his insurance after he asked to 
cancel.
What happened
Mr W had contents insurance arranged through a broker, Swinton. He received the renewal 
letter and wrote to Swinton to cancel. However, Swinton sent the new policy documents.
Mr W wrote to Swinton again to complain that it hadnt acted on his instruction. He didnt 
receive a reply, so he wrote a third time. Swinton replied to say it hadnt received his 
cancellation request which was why it renewed. It also explained that because he hadnt 
paid the premiums to his insurer, the policy had been cancelled. For that reason, Swinton 
had applied cancellation fees.
Mr W complained to Swinton because he had cancelled the renewal. Swinton sent a final 
response saying that it had given him notice of the fees and then correctly applied them.  
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint because Mr W was aware of the renewal 
cancellation process but there was no clear evidence that Swinton had received any contact 
from him.
Mr W disagreed. He thought the decision wasnt impartial and pointed out that Swinton 
hadnt asked for letters to be sent by recorded delivery. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr W will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
The issue here is that Swinton renewed Mr Ws policy with his insurer after he wrote asking 
to cancel. Mr W didnt pay the premiums, so the policy was cancelled, and Swinton charged 
a renewal fee and a cancellation fee. Mr W didnt pay the fees, so a further debt collection 
fee was added to the total.
When Swinton sent Mr W the renewal letter, it explained how to stop the renewal:
If youd prefer we didnt automatically renew your policy please call us ahead of your 
renewal date.
Mr W said Swinton didnt ask for a recorded delivery letter, and I agree. But it didnt ask for 
anything in writing. Swinton asked for a call and I think if Mr W had called the matter 
wouldve been avoided. But that doesnt mean it was wrong of Mr W to write to Swinton. If 
Swinton had received his letter I wouldve expected it to act on his cancellation request.
Ive looked at the evidence available, but I cant find anything to indicate that Swinton 
received Mr Ws letter. I have no reason to think that Swintons records are inaccurate. That 
said, I have no reason to doubt that Mr W sent the letter. However, there is limited reliance I 
can place on a copy letter with no evidence of the address it was sent to. In the absence of 
any conclusive evidence that the letter was delivered, I think its reasonable to accept that 
Swintons records are accurate and it didnt receive the cancellation letter.
Mr W sent a second letter which Swinton didnt reply to. Again, it says it didnt receive the 
letter. The circumstances are the same as Ive described above  there is no evidence of 
where Mr W sent the letter and Swinton has no record of receipt. So, for the same reasons, I 
cant fairly say that Swinton did anything wrong. It cant reply to a letter it hasnt received.
Mr W sent a third letter which Swinton did receive, and it replied. This suggests to me that if 
it had received the first two letters it wouldve replied to Mr W. 
Swinton charged Mr W a cancellation fee and a renewal fee, which he didnt pay. The 
renewal letter provides the following information:
What you will be charged if your insurance is cancelled
3) After the cooling off period
We will also make a cancellation charge[and] Our service charge forrenewing your 
policy will not be refunded.
Mr W confirms he received the renewal letter so he will have been aware of the charges. He 
also received the new policy documents which reminded him of the 14 day cooling off 
period:
If you need to cancel your policy
You can cancel your policy at any time. We also provide a 14-day cooling off period, starting 
from the date you receive this letter. Depending on when you cancel, some charges may 
apply. Details of our terms and charges can be found in the Terms of Business document 
that was included with your renewal invite and can also be found at 
Swinton.co.uk/termsandconditions
I think at that point, Mr W wouldve been aware Swinton hadnt received, or at least acted on, 
his cancellation request and he couldve followed the advice it gave to cancel the renewal:
 How do I cancel the contract?
You can cancel your policy at any time or choose not to renew by telling Swinton Insurance 
at your nearest branch or you can call customer services on [phone number given]
In summary, I think Swinton made Mr W aware of the ways he could cancel the policy 
renewal and the relevant charges if he didnt. While I think writing to Swinton to request 
cancellation was reasonable, I dont think relying on a second letter to follow up on a time-
critical matter was necessarily the best course of action, especially given the charges that 
would be applied. Theres no evidence that Swinton received the cancellation request or the 
follow up letter, so I dont think it did anything wrong by renewing the policy, and I think its 
acted in line with the terms of its service by applying the cancellation fees.
I dont think Swinton needs to take any action in respect of Mr Ws complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman