DRN-4133777
The complaint
Mr E complains that Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) failed to apply the correct 
annual increases to the annuity it is responsible for in line with his previous Occupational 
Pension Schemes (OPS) rules. 
What happened
Mr E said that from late 1982, he was a member of the Senior Executive section of his 
former employers OPS. I understand from Mr E that his scheme membership transferred to 
a successor scheme in 1988 on exactly the same terms. 
PIC said that Mr E was originally a member of the Senior Executive section of a former OPS. 
And that he transferred into a closed section E of a scheme which was bought out with it. It 
said hed never moved from this section. 
PIC said that the rules of section E of the relevant scheme had always stated that his 
pension would increase by a fixed 5% each year. And that this was what had been applied to 
his pension since the buyout. It also said that although the former trustees of the OPS had 
been given discretion to pay pension increases greater than 5%, theyd never used that 
discretion. 
Mr E started receiving the pension from his OPS in early March 2007. But in February 2022, 
his pension became the responsibility of PIC after a buyout. 
PIC issued Mr E with a 16-page document explaining how it would manage his annuity 
policy. This stated that his annuity on 24 February 2022 was £52,223.22 each year.
The document stated:
Section 2 (Members Annuity) of the Schedule of Benefits provides detailed information 
about how your Annuity will increase after PIC starts paying it to you. The Schedule of 
Benefits is very detailed and provides you with the information you need to understand how 
we will work out your benefits. 
The Schedule of Benefits further confirmed under Section 2.2.2 that Mr Es annuity was all 
Members Fixed 5% Excess. And Section 2.4.1 confirmed that: The amount of the 
Members Fixed 5% Excess will increase at a rate of 5% per annum compound.
Section 2.5 covered the pension increase date. Section 2.5.1 said that: The Increase Date 
is each 30 April in respect of the amount of the Annuity payable from each 1 April. And 
Section 2.5.2 described how a partial years increase would be applied.
Section 3.2 covered any lump sums payable. It said: No lump sum shall be payable on the 
death of the Member.
On the 6 June 2022, Mr E called PIC to make a complaint. He felt PIC wasnt increasing his 
pension correctly. Mr E felt his pension should be increased by 9% due to inflation, in line 
with his former Schemes rules. And that there should be a lump sum payable on his death.
PIC issued its final response letter on the 30 June 2022. It didnt think it had done anything 
wrong. 
PIC said that Mr Es pension was being increased correctly at the fixed 5% rate. And that the 
increases were in line with Mr Es policy document, and what had been bought out. It also 
said that there was no lump sum payable on the event of Mr Es death. And that any refund 
of contributions lump sum wouldve only been payable if Mr E had died before his pension 
started. 
Mr E sent a follow up letter to PIC on 21 July 2022. He included the wording of clause 11.1, 
which he said was the section on pension increases relating to his former pension scheme. 
The clause said:
Any pension or annuity currently payable out of the fund will he increased, by the Trustees 
on 1st January of each year at the rate of 3 percent per annum compound, or in the case of 
benefits in respect of a Senior Executive Member 5 per cent per annum compound, or by an 
amount equal to the proportion by which the Government's Index of Retail Prices has 
increased over the previous 12 months if less with the intent that if such a proportion is 
greater than 5 per cent then the full proportionate increase he granted, provided that in the 
case of a benefit which has not been in payment for 12 months the increase will he reduced 
by the ratio which the number of months since commencement to 1st January bears to 12 
and further provided that additional increases may be granted, to Members or to such 
individual Members as the Trustees in their absolute discretion shall determine and at such 
times as the Trustees acting on Actuarial Advice shall decide.
Mr E felt that PIC hadnt considered this clause when it had replied to him. 
PIC issued a second final response letter on 19 August 2022. It said that the increases 
defined in clause 11.1 were being correctly paid. It felt that clause 11.1 said that the increase 
would be 5% or the increase in the Retail Prices Index (RPI) if that was lower. And that the 
increase was capped at 5% each year. It said that Mr E received fixed 5% increases on his 
benefits. And that it was paying him the benefits that the former trustees had insured. 
Mr E was still unhappy, so he sent a further complaint to PIC on the 30 August 2022. He 
said hed got legal advice on clause 11.1 as follows:
in the case of a Senior Executive Member, the fund will be increased at a rate of 5% per 
annum compound...
...BUT, when the RPI increase over the last 12 months is less than 5%, then %5 is the rate 
which will be paid...
...OR, IF the RPI increase over the last 12 months is more than 5%, then RPI is the rate 
which shall be paid. 
Mr E felt that PIC hadnt considered the last part of clause 11.1, which he felt meant that RPI 
increases would be awarded if RPI exceeded 5%. 
PIC issued a further final response letter to Mr E on 27 October 2022. It said it had 
confirmed with Mr Es former scheme that hed been transferred into a closed section 
(section E) which mirrored the benefits of the Senior Executive section hed been a member 
of. It also said that Mr Es pension increases had always been 5% each year and that 
anything more was at the trustees discretion, which it had never exercised. It said that after 
the buyout, there was no longer any trustee discretion on the payment of benefits. PIC said 
that Mr Es pension was increasing correctly and in line with the scheme rules.Mr E was still unhappy. So he sent a further complaint to PIC on 1 November 2022. He 
asked PIC to respond to eight questions  all about the former trustees of his former OPS 
and their consideration of his claim. 
PIC issued its last final response letter on 15 December 2022. It said that Mr Es pension 
increases had been paid correctly and that all of the information hed been given had been 
confirmed by the former trustees of his OPS. It said that Mr Es pension increases were the 
same as theyd always been before the buyout. And that there was no evidence the 
increases shouldve been more than 5%.
Still unhappy with PICs response, Mr E brought his complaint to this service. He said his 
pension had been underpaid and that hed lost about £3,000 a year. He wanted his pension 
to be increased in line with RPI. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that PIC had 
correctly applied the annual 5% increase since it had been responsible for Mr Es annuity. 
Mr E didnt agree with our investigator. He felt that shed failed to understand that the 
benefits of the Senior Executive section of his former OPS had been mirrored when he 
transferred to the successor scheme. So he felt hed continued to be entitled to pension 
increases in line with RPI if it exceeded 5%. 
Mr E also made the following points: 
- The eight questions hed asked PIC in his 1 November 2022 email still hadnt been 
satisfactorily answered.
- He hadnt seen the evidence relating to our investigators statement that the former 
trustees of his OPS had confirmed that the increases were correct. 
- He felt that PICs due diligence had failed to recognise clause 11.1 of his former 
OPS, which he felt showed that he was due a pension increase of 9%. Mr E felt that 
PIC had ignored clause 11.1 of his former scheme when if had said: The rules of 
section E of the [OPS name] has always been that your pension benefit will increase 
by a fixed 5% per year, this is what has been applied since your retirement pre and 
post the PIC buyout.
- Mr E also felt that our investigators point that the trustees had confirmed theyd 
never paid him increases of more than 5%, which wouldve at their discretion before 
the buyout, was irrelevant. This was because before now, RPI had never exceeded 
5% in his retirement. 
- Mr E also questioned how the former trustees couldve interpreted clause 11.1 as 
5% or the increase in the RPI if less. He felt that PIC had accepted RPI should be 
the rate of increase if it exceeded 
- He also felt that PIC might not have carried out full buyout due diligence given he felt 
it appeared it hadnt taken account of clause 11.1 in relation to his pension increases.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I can see that Mr E feels very strongly about his 
complaint, so I know my decision will be disappointing. Ill explain the reasons for it.
I first want to give a brief background to pension buyouts. 
Pension buyouts
A buyout transfers the responsibility for meeting scheme members benefits to the provider. 
This removes all risk and related liability for the OPS from the trustees and sponsoring 
employer. Individual policies are then issued to each former member of the OPS, which 
would typically then be wound up.
I havent been given any information about how the former trustees of the OPS arranged the 
buyout. But in a normal buyout process, the buyout provider wouldnt typically provide 
discretionary benefits. Instead, as is the case here, each members guaranteed benefits 
under the OPS would be calculated and an individual policy would then be set up to pay 
those guaranteed benefits.
PIC explained this in its 15 December 2022 final response letter. It said:
Before the buyout takes place there is an extensive rigorous process completed by the 
trustees and PIC, this is to confirm the pension benefits in place prior to the changeover 
mirror what would have been paid had the buyout not been completed, this includes how the 
benefits should increase yearly. So the increases being applied by us are exactly the same 
as they always were. 
PIC wrote to Mr E, detailing the benefits that it would be paying him, and how they would 
increase over time. The Schedule of Benefits stated under section 2.21:
The amount of the Annuity payable to the Member under this policy as at the Members 
Policy Issue Date is £52,223.22 per annum. Of this amount:
(a)£52,223.22 per annum is the Members Scheme Annuity
And it also stated under section 2.2.2: 
The Scheme Annuity is made up of a number of different elements:
(d) £52,223.22 per annum is the Members Fixed 5% Excess
As PIC noted in its December 2022 final response letter, once the OPS was bought out, 
there was no longer any trustee involvement in the pension benefits. So it didnt answer any 
of Mr Es question about the former trustees because they were no longer involved with the 
OPS. 
I next considered if PIC is paying Mr E the correct benefits.
Did PIC pay Mr E the correct benefits?
Both Mr E and his legal adviser have understood that clause 11.1 - which he said relates to 
his benefits under the OPS - should be taken to mean that he should receive pension 
increases in line with the increase in the RPI if that is greater than 5%. 
The former trustees of Mr Es OPS said they understood the wording meant that pension increases for him were 5% or the increase in the RPI if less.
PIC gave permission for this service to share details it had obtained from the former trustees 
of Mr Es OPS with him. This information confirmed that Mr Es benefits included: a 
commitment to pay increases at 5% pa, regardless of the increase in the RPI. In setting up 
pensions for members in this category it should be noted that the rate of increase will not be 
subject to an RPI test. 
Ive also been provided with a confirmation from the former trustees that it sent to Mr E many 
years ago to confirm that his pension increases were 5% each year:
All of your pension will increase by 5% each year as you were a Senior Executive of the 
[OPS name].
Ive also noted that the OPS scheme booklet stated that annual excess pension increases 
for Mr Es section of the scheme were: 5% or the increase in the cost of living if less
PIC also said that there was no section of the former OPS that provided increases up to the 
9% Mr E felt he was due. 
Mr E doesnt see why its relevant to him that the former trustees had never exercised their 
discretions to give more than 5% pension increases. He said this was because RPI had 
never exceeded 5% before, so the trustees had never needed to consider whether or not to 
exercise their discretion.
I can also see that Mr E felt that hed been assured that his benefits under the Senior 
Executive section would be mirrored in the new section hed been placed under. So he felt 
that he would retain all aspects of his old membership  including the potential for 
discretionary benefits if RPI ever exceeded 5%. 
However, as I noted earlier, when the buyout took place, a fixed set of benefits wouldve 
been set up for each member. There were no longer any trustees with responsibility for the 
pension benefits. And there was no longer any potential for those former trustees to exercise 
any discretion. Instead, the benefits were determined and then policies mirroring those 
benefits were set up by PIC.
While I acknowledge why Mr E feels he may have lost out, the former trustees will have 
undertaken significant work to assess whether the buyout was in their members best 
interests, weighing up the future security of the guaranteed benefits against the loss of the 
potential for discretionary benefits. In any event, my decision here relates to Mr Es 
complaint against PIC. So I have to consider whether it is paying him the correct benefits, in 
line with those insured by the former trustees.
I can see that Mr E feels that PIC had accepted that RPI should be the rate of increase if it 
exceeded 5%, but Ive seen no evidence of that. Ive also no evidence to back up Mr Es 
assertion that PIC might not have carried out full buyout due diligence. 
Pension scheme rules can be complex and difficult to interpret. So I can understand why Mr 
E feels that his pension increases should be linked to RPI if it exceeds 5%. But, based on 
the evidence, Im satisfied that PIC is paying Mr E the correct pension increases. I say this 
because the evidence shows that this was the pension increase Mr E was due under the 
rules of the scheme. Im also satisfied that Mr E is receiving the benefits that were agreed 
when the buyout was arranged with PIC. 
Therefore, I cant fairly say that PIC has done anything wrong. And I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman