DRN-3304778
The complaint
Mr P has complained that he was incorrectly charged stamp duty on shares he bought via 
the trading platform Halifax Share Dealing Limited, trading as IWeb Share Dealing (IWeb). 
He feels it was IWeb that caused the stamp duty to be paid and when IWeb identified the 
error instead of liaising with Her Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC) to get the money 
paid back it should have refunded the incorrect charges to Mr P direct itself.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr P placed a limit order to automatically buy shares for his Individual 
Savings Account (ISA) in Rambler Metals (RMM) through his platform provider IWeb. 
However upon making the purchase he was incorrectly charged stamp duty. Mr P has 
explained that when he noticed this he contacted IWeb to get the matter resolved and he 
was told it was already liaising with HMRC to rectify the issue. Mr P has said he waited for a 
long time but when he chased IWeb again and raised a complaint he was told it was still in 
discussions with HMRC and as no further investigation was required it closed the complaint.
Mr P feels IWeb should have refunded the money to him directly without him having to wait 
for HMRC. He thinks IWeb was duty bound to do this and has effectively kept his money 
from him. He doesnt think IWeb has treated him in a fair or legal way. 
When IWeb looked into the complaint it was satisfied that it had acted correctly. It explained 
the Stamp Duty was charged incorrectly due to actions by RMM therefore it was not its 
responsibility to reclaim the stamp duty paid in error. It was satisfied it did what it could to 
work with HMRC in arranging the refunds to its clients, which included Mr P.
Unhappy with this outcome Mr P brought his complaint to this service where it was assessed 
by one of our investigators. He also didnt feel the complaint could be upheld explaining that 
as RMM had caused the error it was for RMM to resolve the problem. IWeb wasnt obligated 
to step in or pay Mr P the Stamp Duty taken in error as it wasnt responsible for the mistake.
Mr P didnt agree with the assessment, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
From all the information that has been provided to me I am satisfied that the stamp duty 
being incorrectly charged on the purchase of the shares was not due to anything IWeb did. It 
would seem that RMM had incorrectly categorised the shares as Stamp Duty eligible rather 
than Stamp Duty exempt therefore Stamp Duty was applied to all purchase in RMM in the 
markets between 17 January 2019 and 3 March 2021. RMM identified the error and HMRC 
refunded the stamp duty to investors that had purchased RMM shares during this period and 
who had applied for a refund.
IWeb applied for the refund from HMRC on behalf of all of its affected customer and Mr Ps 
ISA was refunded on 3 November 2021.
So the error that caused Stamp Duty to be incorrectly charged was not made by IWeb but by 
RMM. Therefore, it was the responsibility of RMM to rectify that error and no one else. 
Furthermore, IWeb was not under any obligation to pay Mr P the incorrect charge and 
recoup the money itself from HMRC  it is arguable whether this could even have happened 
given IWeb effectively wasnt involved in the error. IWeb was also not obligated to involve 
itself in the process of helping its customer reclaim the stamp duty paid in error (as per its 
terms and conditions), yet it did so in this specific situation  as a one off business decision 
made in the spirit of customer service.
Overall therefore, I see nothing wrong in IWebs actions taken in light of the incorrect stamp 
duty charges. The error did not occur because of something it did.  It wasnt obliged to pay 
the money to directly to Mr P and wait to be reimbursed by HMRC. IWeb therefore hasnt 
acted illegally or unfairly in its treatment of Mr P. And I am pleased to see that IWeb chose to 
do what it could to help its customers affected by this despite it not having to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman