DRN-4317479
The complaint
Mr L has complained about U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line. He isnt happy 
about the valuation of his car after it was deemed a total loss after a claim under his motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr L made a claim under his motor insurance policy and his car was deemed a total loss. 
When UKI looked to settle the claim Mr L wasnt happy with the valuation of his car. 
UKI looked to value Mr Ls car after it was written off by looking at a number of the various 
trade valuation guides in order to gauge the market value of his car. It offered Mr L around 
£2,750 for his car (which was the highest valuation it found from the three guides it used) 
less the policy excess. But Mr L wasnt happy about this as he thought his car was worth 
about £3,500 so he complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr L, but she didnt uphold his complaint. She looked 
at the various motor trade valuation guides available for Mr Ls car from around the time of 
claim, but she was satisfied UKIs offer was in line with these, so she didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. Ultimately, she thought UKI had offered a fair market value for Mr Ls car.
UKI accepted the investigators findings, but Mr L didnt. He maintained that his car was 
worth more than UKI had offered so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and despite my natural sympathy for Mr L who simply feels his car is worth 
more than UKI have paid him, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
This Service has an established approach to valuation cases like Mr Ls. When looking at the 
valuation placed on a car by an insurance company I consider the approach they have 
adopted. And decide whether the valuation is fair in all the circumstances. 
It isnt the role of this Service to come to an exact valuation of a consumers car. But we do 
look to see if insurers have acted reasonably in looking to offer a fair market value of the car 
in line with the policy terms and conditions. I pay attention to the various trade valuation 
guides used for valuing cars. And I look at any other evidence provided by both sides. 
This evidence might include advertisements for the sale of similar cars. But I generally place 
less weight on these than on the trade guides, as the guides give an up-to-date estimate of 
the value of the car in question. The condition of the car at the time of the incident is also an 
important factor to consider. And I must emphasise that I will only order a business to 
increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
Valuing second-hand cars is far from an exact science and it isnt my role to value Mr Ls 
car. Im just looking to see if UKI has acted reasonably in providing a fair market value of his 
car and, overall, I think its valuation was fair. 
UKI used three different trade valuation guides and ignored the two lower guide prices in 
deciding to pay Mr L a market value of just over £2,750 - as it ignored the two lower guide 
valuations I cant say it acted unreasonably here. And when our investigator looked into the 
position and gained a valuation from all the available guides they were in line with the 
valuation provided by UKI so it would seem that the market value offered feels fair. 
I know Mr L provided some evidence which he thought suggested his car was worth more. 
But in the main these adverts were for cars with different specification and mileage to his, so 
I dont think they are reflective of the market value of his car. It is clear the advertisements 
Mr L provided are for cars, in the main, that had a lot less mileage than his. 
Given all of this, I cant say that UKI has acted unfairly here. As Ive said it is very difficult to 
value second-hand cars, but UKI seems to have acted fairly in offering a market value in line 
with the highest trade valuation guide found. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman