DRN-1844977
 
The complaint
Mr B and Ms P complain about the excess Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. deducted from their claim on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B and Ms P took out a family travel insurance policy with Mapfre to cover them and their 
daughter. They booked a trip, but unfortunately had to cancel it as their daughter was unwell 
and couldnt travel.
They made a claim to Mapfre for the losses theyd suffered when cancelling the holiday. 
Mapfre accepted the claim and offered a settlement figure. Mr B and Ms P were unhappy the 
excess deducted from the claim was £180 in total - £60 per person claiming.
They complained to Mapfre. They said the policy documents werent clear in showing that 
the excess applied to each person and expected to only pay £60 for the one claim they 
made. Mapfre didnt uphold the complaint. It said it thought it was clear in the policy 
documents that the excess applied to each person making a claim on the policy.
Unhappy, Mr B and Ms P brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought while it could have been clearer 
in the policy documents that the excess applied to each person making a claim, she thought 
it was clear enough.
Mr B and Ms P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I understand this wont be the answer Mr B and Ms P 
were hoping for, but Ill explain my reasoning below.
Mapfre have a duty to make sure the information it provides to its customers is clear. Im 
satisfied in this case it has. I appreciate the information could be clearer, but I dont find it 
unclear or misleading.
Mr B and Ms Ps policy documents outline what they are and arent covered for. Within it, 
theres a table of benefits. The policy is clear in saying this table is a summary of cover, and 
explains the full cover is explained in the relevant section further into the policy document. 
The table of benefits breaks down what is covered on the type of cover selected and 
explains the maximum benefit per section and the excess that applies to each section. The 
table explains that the benefit for each section is per person, but it doesnt say the same for 
the excess. In the column for the excess, the policy document says, see note 1.
Note 1 explains that Mr B and Ms P may have chosen to waive or double the excess and 
that it will be shown on their certificate. The note says in brackets to refer to the excesses 
section on page 11. On page 11, a number of terms, including excesses are explained. Here 
the policy document explains that the excess applies to each person claiming and to each 
section they are claiming from.
Mr B and Ms P have said they didnt look at the excesses section on page 11 as they knew 
they neither waived nor doubled their excess, so didnt think they needed to look further. 
Which I do understand. But Im satisfied the policy document is clear in that the table of 
benefit was only a summary of cover, and that further detail would be given later in the 
policy. Im satisfied the table also clearly explains where the details on the excess can be 
found.
I agree the table could be clearer. It could say in the table itself that the excess applies to 
each person making a claim in the table itself. But looking at the document as a whole, Im 
satisfied the policy is clear enough.
Whats more, I dont find the policy document misleading. Most travel insurance policies 
available have an excess applicable to each person making a claim and to each section they 
are claiming from. And I dont find this policy indicates that the excess doesnt work this way.
Ive also considered what likely would have happened had the policy been clearer. And 
looking at the claim settlement, and the reason for the claim, I find it likely had the 
information been clearer, Mr B and Ms P would still have gone ahead with making the claim.
Based on the above, Im satisfied Mapfre can apply to the excess to each person making a 
claim on the policy. The relevant section they claimed from in this case had an excess of £60 
per person, so Im satisfied Mapfre acted in line with the policy when deducting a total of 
£180 from Mr B and Ms Ps claim as three people were claiming from the policy, Mr B, Ms P 
and their daughter.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above. My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman