DRN-3873473
The complaint
Mr C complains about pension advice provided by St Jamess Place Wealth Management 
Plc (SJP).
What happened
Mr C has been a client of SJP for many years. He holds a number of different pension plans. 
One of these is a defined contribution (DC) pension with another provider which is the 
subject of this complaint. This pension also had a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) 
payable from age 65.
SJP provided pension advice to Mr C in both 2017 and 2018 regarding this pension. SJP 
says it verbally advised Mr C on both occasions to transfer this pension to SJP. Whilst there 
is no written record of this advice, Mr C doesnt seem to dispute this is what happened. 
However, following the verbal advice in both 2017 and 2018, Mr C decided he was happy 
with the performance and charges of his pension with the current provider, so the pension 
remained where it was.
In 2020, Mr C looked again into transferring this pension. However, by this point as he was 
over 65, which was the age the GMP would start to apply, he was no longer able to transfer 
the pension.
Mr C complained to SJP. He said hed not been told that he wouldnt be able to transfer this 
pension after the age of 65 and he wouldve done so sooner had he been made aware. Mr C 
said he was now not able to transfer this pension where he could make use of a drawdown 
facility and his only option was to either take an annuity, which he said represented poor 
value for money, or wait for the entire fund to pass to his family upon his death. 
SJP didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said that it had advised Mr C verbally in 2017 and 
2018 to transfer his pension but he had declined. SJP pointed out that letters from the 
scheme provider wouldve made Mr C aware that he wouldnt be able to transfer his pension 
after reaching the GMP age of 65. SJP offered Mr C £500 compensation for the delay in 
responding to his complaint.
Mr C didnt accept this and referred the complaint to our Service, where one of our 
Investigators looked into the complaint. He was satisfied that SJP probably didnt make Mr C 
aware of the fact that he wouldnt be able to transfer this pension after the age of 65. 
However, he noted that newsletters sent by the pension provider did give Mr C this 
information so he thought Mr C ought to have been aware that he couldnt transfer his 
pension after the age of 65. 
Mr C didnt agree with out Investigator. He maintained SJP had never told him that he 
couldnt transfer this pension after the age of 65. And he said he didnt read the newsletters 
from the product provider as he paid SJP to act on his behalf. Mr C asked for the complaint 
to be considered by an Ombudsman. So, its been passed to me to review and make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SJP accepts that it didnt tell Mr C, in writing, about the restriction of transferring his pension 
after he reached the GMP age. There is some dispute about whether this was discussed 
with Mr C. But, based on an email provided by SJP, where the advisor says he overlooked 
this restriction, I think its more likely than not that SJP didnt make Mr C aware of that he 
couldnt transfer his pension after the age of 65. 
Our Investigator was of the opinion that Mr C wouldve been aware of the restrictions of 
transferring the pension after reaching the GMP age as this was set out in newsletters from 
the scheme administrator. Ive seen copies of these newsletters and have noted this 
information is contained within them. 
I understand Mr C says he was relying on the advice provided by SJP. However, I do also 
think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr C to have read the newsletters as well. They were 
sent just twice a year  and this was important information about the funding position of the 
scheme, which might also have influenced Mr Cs decision to take further advice about 
whether to transfer out. Details about the GMP were contained and, in my view, clearly 
explained within these newsletters. And I think it is reasonable to say Mr C ought to have 
looked at these. 
I also need to take into account the wider circumstances, including the advice given in both 
2017 and 2018. And given the circumstances at the time, Im not persuaded, on the balance 
of probability, that if SJP had made Mr C aware of the restriction Mr C wouldve done 
anything differently. Ill explain.
SJP says it verbally advised Mr C to transfer his pension in 2017 and 2018. And Mr C 
doesnt seem to dispute this. But Mr C went against the advice because he was happy with 
his pension where it was. Had Mr C followed the advice given by SJP at the time, then the 
restriction wouldnt have been a relevant factor as hed have transferred prior to reaching the 
GMP age. However, because its advice was based on Mr Cs situation at the time, I think 
SJP shouldve made Mr C aware of this restriction, it was a key feature of the policy. 
Even with that said, Mr C had already gone against SJPs advice twice, and Ive seen 
nothing to suggest SJP shouldve known that Mr C would either seek out advice again or 
that, if he did, he would follow any subsequent advice if it told him to transfer out again  
even if it had clearly made Mr C aware of the GMP restriction. Having been told verbally, 
twice, that a transfer was suitable, and not doing so, I am satisfied that Mr C didnt want to 
transfer at the time of the advice. And he turned 65 the following year, so it is unlikely that 
either he, or SJP, wouldve thought that his personal circumstances or objectives were likely 
to change significantly in the intervening period. 
I can see why Mr C wouldve liked to have known about this restriction as hes now knows 
that a transfer is no longer possible. He can only take an annuity with his pension, and hes 
lost the opportunity to decide to do something different.  However, as set out above, I think 
Mr C shouldve been aware of this information regardless of whether SJP told him or not, 
due to the fact that it was contained within the newsletters. And as Ive also explained, I dont 
think I can safely say that had SJP told him about this restriction sooner, he wouldve done 
anything differently prior to his 65th birthday.
Whilst Mr C can no longer transfer the pension to a drawdown facility, he still has a pension 
fund with potentially valuable benefits  either a guaranteed income with the option of some tax-free cash, or as a lump sum left to his beneficiaries on his death. So, whilst he is 
frustrated he cant take the action he now wishes to in transferring his pension, Im not 
persuaded hes suffered a financial loss. 
My final decision
I understand Mr C feels strongly about this matter. But my final decision is I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman