DRN-1427515
 
The complaint
Mr N complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly recorded two late payment markers on 
his credit file when it had told him it would place his account on hold.
What happened
Mr N says he received a letter from Barclays in June 2019 about his overdraft facility being 
removed. He says he spoke to Barclays about this and was told his account would be put on 
hold while Barclays looked into his case. Mr N says it was not explained to him that adverse 
information would be reported to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRA's) and that is what 
Barclays did, by reporting two late payment markers. Mr N says that was unfair and it should 
have been explained to him that is what Barclays intended to do, which would have allowed 
him to make an informed decision to avoid that. He would like the adverse information 
removed from the credit file and says he didn't receive any of Barclays letters prior to 22 
June 2019.
Barclays says it wrote to Mr N on a number of occasions in May and June 2019 about the 
overdraft. It says Mr N's account was overdrawn by over £800 and the last transaction was 
in 2017. Barclays says its terms and conditions require an overdraft facility to have regular 
payments into it and so didn't make a mistake by removing it. It says it correctly reported the 
information to the CRA's about Mr N's account and says it agreed to place the account on 
hold but that didn't mean it would stop reporting the account position to the CRA's. Barclays 
says Mr N used online banking in March 2019, and so he should have been aware about the 
account position. And its notes of calls between the parties say Mr N was told that collection 
activity was on hold and not reporting of account information to the CRA's.
Mr N brought his complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. In summary the 
investigator thought Barclays had written to Mr N about the overdraft and had acted in line 
with account terms and conditions by removing it when there were no regular transactions. 
The investigator thought Mr N had used online banking in March 2019 and didn't think 
Barclays had told Mr N that it would place a hold on reporting the account position to the 
CRA's.
Mr N didn't accept that view and says being over an agreed overdraft limit is different to 
making a late payment and says his overdraft has been reduced to £10. He questions why 
late payment markers have not been recorded in the past. Mr N says it's unfair to reach 
conclusions about the call with Barclays without a copy of it and says Barclays letters didn't 
mention anything about adverse information being recorded on his credit file. He says the 
first call with Barclays took place on 15 June not 15 July 2019 and that was before the first 
late payment marker was recorded on his credit file.
The investigator issued a second view and said that Barclays had acted in line with account 
terms and conditions and hadn't made a mistake. The investigator also thought that Mr N 
had perviously told us the key call was on 15 July 2019 and during his call to us said that he was aware of the first late payment marker being recorded. The investigator explained that 
first call was not available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr N will be disappointed by my decision and how 
strongly he feels about what's happened.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I'm satisfied Mr N would have 
agreed to when the account was opened. And I can see that Barclays makes clear that for 
an overdraft to remain in place, ,regular payments and transactions are required. So I don't 
think Barclays made a mistake here or acted unfairly by reaching the decision to remove or 
reduce Mr N's overdraft facility, as I'm satisfied Mr N had not used the account in some 
considerable time and that there were no regular payments into the account or transactions. 
I also think Mr N ought to have been aware that he owed Barclays money as I'm satisfied he 
received regular account statements. And used online banking in March 2019 when it ought 
to have been clear to him then that his account was overdrawn, and that at some point it was 
likely Barclays would ask him what he intended doing about it.
I can see that Barclays wrote to Mr N about the overdraft on a number of occasions in May 
and June 2019. I appreciate Mr N says he didn't receive those letters, with the exception of 
Barclays letter dated 22 June 2019. But I can't fairly hold Barclays responsible for that as it's 
not responsible for the delivery of the mail and I'm satisfied the letters were correctly 
addressed. I have made clear that I think Mr N ought to have been aware of the debt in any 
event, as it's his responsibility to manage his account and review his account statements 
either when using online banking or when they were sent by Barclays.
Mr N accepts that he received Barclays letter of 22 June 2019 but has also told us that he 
called Barclays on 15 June 2019 which was before the first  late payment marker had been 
recorded. I don't think Mr N has been clear about the exact date the first call took place and 
if he is saying at that stage, there was or was not a late payment marker in place.
I think it likely that Mr N first made contact with Barclays in July 2019 and not June. I say that 
as I think it likely that Mr N was responding to Barclays letter of 22 June 2019 and was likely 
to have been aware during July 2019 that the first late payment marker had been recorded 
on his credit file. I think that corresponds with Barclays system notes and with what Mr N told 
us when he first brought this complaint. I appreciate that Mr N would have liked me to have 
listened to that first call and I also appreciate that call is subject to a different complaint.
I have listened to the call between the parties of 16 July 2019 and I'm satisfied that Barclays 
explained what had happened and that Mr N said that he was trying to sort out a payment 
plan. So I think it likely that if that was the case then the second marker could not have been 
avoided even if a payment plan had been agreed as there would still be a balance that Mr N 
owed. I'm also satisfied that Mr N told Barclays that he couldn't recall receiving its letters and 
that he hadn't used online banking for a long time
As I think that the first late payment marker had already been recorded on Mr N's credit file 
by the time he first called Barclays I will go on and look at Barclays actions in recording the 
second late payment marker. There is no dispute here that Barclays agreed to place the 
account on hold. The key point is if Barclays should have explained that hold would not stop 
it reporting the correct account position to the CRA's.
I'm satisfied that an account hold in these circumstances was about the overdrawn balance and how Mr N was intending to repay it as an overdraft is repayable on demand. I don't think 
there was any dispute that Mr N owed the money and I think at that stage he would have 
been aware that this was a balance he had owed for some time. I'm satisfied that in these 
circumstances Barclays is obliged to report an accurate account position to the CRA's and 
that is what it did here. I'm also satisfied that the account terms and conditions make clear 
that is what Barclays will do and that the accurate position was reported - that Mr N's 
account was in an unauthorised overdraft.
I appreciate that Mr N says that Barclays letters didn't tell him about the credit file 
implications. But Mr N has told us he didn't receive the letters save one in any event. And I 
think the account terms and conditions make it clear that Barclays will report an accurate 
account position to the CRA's. I have made clear that I'm satisfied that is what took place 
here and that Barclays didn't make a mistake or act unfairly.
Overall I find that Barclays hasn't made a mistake here about reporting Mr N's account 
position to the CRA's. I have explained that I think by the time Mr N first spoke to Barclays 
that adverse information had already been recorded. And I don't think Barclays acted unfairly 
be reporting the account position when other activities were on hold. I also think it follows 
that even if Barclays had place all activities on hold as Mr N believed, that the information 
would still have been recorded as Barclays hadn't made a mistake and would have recorded 
the account information until Mr N re-paid the money. I appreciate Mr N says he could have 
considered his options if told the correct position. But I would have expected him to have 
repaid the money immediately and not waited until August 2019 to do so regardless of what 
he was told or believed as it ought to have been clear to him that adverse information was 
being reported as a result of the overdraft being removed.
I have considered what Mr N says that he still has a small overdraft facility and the questions 
he asks about why adverse information wasn't reported in the past. I make clear that I don't 
think either point matters as I think it's agreed Mr N no longer has his previous overdraft 
facility and I can't fairly comment on complaint areas Barclays hasn't had an opportunity to 
look into.
I make clear that although I would have liked to have listened to the first call between the 
parties I don't think it's as relevant as Mr N believes.I think it likely Barclays told Mr N in that 
call it was placing his account on hold and Mr N says he thought that would include all 
activities including the reporting of information to the CRA's. I have explained why I don't 
think that was a reasonable assumption to make and in any event adverse information had 
already been reported.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman