DRN-3320832
The complaint
Mr B complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) refused to let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr B acquired a second-hand car funded by a hire purchase agreement with 
BMF at a cost of £8,500. The car was first registered in September 2014 and had a recorded 
mileage of 94,016.
Within few weeks Mr B found the air conditioning wasnt working and there was a problem 
with the gearbox. The car was repaired by the dealer in June 2019. Mr B says the air 
conditioning stopped working in August 2019. According to BMF the dealer told Mr B to get 
it diagnosed and to let them know the outcome as they will assist if it is outside of anything 
service related - even offered to reimburse up to £50 for a diagnostic - customer did not get 
diagnosed... 
According to BMF in August Mr B  purchased regas and to book it in to a garage but he 
never did this as he bought the wrong gas and he didnt get it done as the weather changed 
- at this point he is only buying regas and nothing else like parts etc.
In May 2021 it was established there was leak and it was estimated that a repair would cost 
some £1,000. Mr B contacted BMF, but it said that there wasnt sufficient evidence to show 
that the later issue with the air conditioning was present at the point of sale.
Mr B brought a complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. He noted that the car had been repaired initially by the 
dealer and the next time it was inspected was in June 2021 after it had covered over 13,000 
miles since the point of sale. He said this inspection identified the air conditioning required 
two new valves and two new caps and there was a leak in the pipe. He didnt consider this 
allowed him to conclude the subsequent air conditioning fault was present at the point of 
sale.
Mr B didnt agree and submitted a brief report from the garage which had investigated the air 
conditioning in June 2021. This stated:
Upon examining the vehicle to check the Air Conditioning and find the source as to why it 
wasnt functioning, a hole was discovered in the low pressure metal pipe on the bulkhead, at 
the rear of the engine bay.
It appears that the hard fabric dampening material has rubbed on the soft metal piping, as 
the material in question was not correctly fitted and was loose behind the engine when I was 
carrying out my inspection. This would of have to have been over a considerable amount of 
time for the fabric to wear through the soft metal pipe as much as it has.
Mr B also submitted the vehicle check sheet from the time of the sale which does not refer to 
the air conditioning.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
BMF is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The question is whether the most recent fault with the air conditioning was present at the 
point of sale? The issue is made more difficult by the delays in the car being seen by a 
mechanic. The first evidence we have of the fault is in June 2021 some two years after the 
car was sold. I have noted that Mr B has supplied evidence to show he had contacted the 
dealer in 2019 after the repair to say the air conditioning had failed. What I dont have it is 
any independent evidence of that failure or its cause.
The air conditioning was re-gassed in June 2021. There is no reference as to the reason 
why it needed to be re-gassed. It seems as if this work was effective for a period of time. 
What is not clear is when the hole appeared. The car had covered a significant number of 
miles and so some wear and tear is to be expected. It seems as if the hole was caused by 
rubbing and it has been suggested that some material wasnt correctly fitted. What is not 
clear is when this occurred. 
Over two years had passed and over 13,000 miles had been covered since the point of sale 
and that makes it difficult for me to say that the fault was present at the point of sale. I am 
also aware that Mr B had opportunities to address the issue much earlier and it possible that 
the problem may have been fixed more easily. Leaving a fault for a period of time can make 
it worse. Given what BMF has said about the dealer offering to help in 2019 it is a shame 
that this was not taken up.
Based on the evidence I have been given I find it difficult to conclude that was something 
other than wear and tear. I need to be satisfied that the fault was present at the point of sale 
and I cannot come to that conclusion. 
So while I have every sympathy with Mr B I cannot safely conclude that his complaint should 
be upheld.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman