DRN-3450372
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the interest rate she was charged on a loan supplied by Oakbrook 
Finance Limited.
What happened
Mrs D took out a loan for £5,000 in January 2015. The APR of the loan was 45%.
Mrs D complained to Oakbrook in April 2021 about the amount and rate of interest she had 
been charged on the loan. She is unhappy with the level of the rate she was given. 
Oakbrook responded to the complaint saying it had made the applicable interest rate clear to 
Mrs D during the application process and had therefore correctly applied these payments to 
her account.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. He also felt Oakbrook had 
clearly shown the interest rate before Mrs D had agreed to take out the loan. He explained it 
was Oakbrooks commercial decision to set the interest rates; and as such it didnt need to 
do anything further in relation to Mrs Ds complaint.
Mrs D remained unhappy with the decision and asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I understand the strength of Mrs Ds opinion on this complaint; Im not satisfied it is 
one which should be upheld. This is for largely the same reasons that our investigator has 
previously explained to Mrs D.
Our services role is to consider individual disputes between consumers and financial 
businesses. And as such my final decision will focus on Mrs Ds complaint. I appreciate she 
has wider concerns, but our service does not have the remit to consider these. I hope Mrs D 
understands my position on this. 
Having reviewed all of the documentation Im satisfied that Mrs D was aware, or reasonably 
should have been aware, of the rate and amount of interest that was due to be charged on 
her account. Ive not seen information from Mrs D which says she disputes this amount was 
known to her. Whilst I accept the interest and subsequent APR for her loan is higher than 
those of some retail banks or other lenders; that does not in itself mean Oakbrook has done 
something wrong in this instance. The interest is set by Oakbrook; and it is entitled to charge 
what it wants within its commercial discretion (subject to any regulatory requirements). 
Having looked at this complaint Im satisfied that is what Oakbrook has done here and it has 
acted reasonably in exercising its commercial discretion. As such Im satisfied it does not 
need to do anything further in this instance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Oakbrook Finance Limited, 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman