DRN-3189326
The complaint
Mrs W complains about how PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA handled a claim she made 
under its Buyers Protection Scheme.
What happened
Mrs Ws husband sadly passed away suddenly in 2020. She ordered an urn for his ashes on 
23 November 2020 which cost around £800 and paid via PayPal. When the urn was 
received by the funeral directors it was chipped at the bottom. Mrs W contacted the urn 
supplier on 18 December 2020 saying it was losing the ashes due to the damage. 
The supplier suggested she glue the chipped parts back on. Mrs W wasnt happy with this 
suggestion and said that she didnt have the chipped parts to glue back on  it had arrived 
like this. She said it had been received like this by the funeral director, but it now contained 
her husbands ashes and she didnt want to take them out. She continued to correspond with 
both the funeral director and the urn supplier but wasnt able to resolve the matter.
Mrs W contacted PayPal on 22 December to open a dispute under its Buyer Protection 
Scheme and requested a refund of £650. PayPal contacted the urn supplier on the same 
day requesting it respond to the claim. And it received a response from the seller on 
31 December 2020. 
On 7 January 2021 PayPal requested further information from Mrs W, which she provided 
the next day. This included a statement from the funeral directors confirming the damage 
and a quote to have the urn repaired. 
PayPal responded on 14 January 2021 declining Mrs Ws claim. It said that the purchase 
was ineligible for the Purchase Protection scheme. But it didnt explain why. Mrs W 
contacted PayPal and was told it was because the urn was custom made. 
Mrs W disputed this and emailed PayPal on 18 January 2021. She said that the urn did have 
her husbands name and other details on it. But this was reasonable given the nature of the 
item purchased. She didnt think this meant it should be considered custom made as same 
urn was available for immediate order.
PayPal emailed Mrs W on 19 January 2021, again declining her claim. This time, it said the 
item was materially similar to the description from the seller, so it didnt consider it to be 
significantly not as described.
Mrs W contacted PayPal again as she was very unhappy with the response. She says she 
received a generic response telling her that her claim had now been closed. Mrs W says she 
sent more emails, but they went unanswered. So, Mrs W referred her complaint to our 
service. 
One of our investigators got in touch with PayPal. It confirmed that, having reviewed the 
dispute, the item was in fact handcrafted rather than custom made. It said that it wouldve 
asked for the item to be returned to the seller had it realised this at the time. However, it 
noted Mrs W had said she wouldnt have been able to do this as she didnt want to empty 
her husbands ashes from it. 
PayPal accepted that it had overlooked information in its investigation and apologised for 
this. It noted that, at the time Mrs W raised the dispute, shed asked for a partial refund of 
£650. It wasnt clear why Mrs W had requested this amount, but it agreed to this and 
refunded the money to Mrs Ws card. Mrs W didnt accept this offer and asked us to consider 
the complaint further.
Our investigator reviewed everything and thought PayPal should pay an additional £500 for 
the distress and inconvenience this matter had caused. PayPal accepted this, but Mrs W 
didnt. She said this amount didnt reflect the impact or damage to her mental health that this 
matter had caused her.
Mrs W asked for the complaint to be reviewed again. So, its been passed to me to consider 
and issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to add my sincere condolences to Mrs W on what has clearly been a really difficult 
and upsetting time for her. 
Firstly, Ill address the dispute around the outcome of the Buyer Protection Scheme dispute 
with PayPal. PayPal accepts that it didnt handle Mrs Ws claim as it shouldve done. And I 
agree. I dont think that it listened to Mrs W or properly considered what she was saying. And 
the responses she received were very generic. 
The urn cost around £800. The quote Mrs W received to repair it was around £250. PayPal 
has since refunded £650 to Mrs W. I think this is fair in the circumstances as this means Mrs 
W is able to have the urn repaired professionally, and is then able to keep the item she 
ordered with some money left over. However, I also need to consider the distress and upset 
this has caused Mrs W. 
As Ive said, this mustve been a terrible time for Mrs W. Shed already lost her husband. 
And shes explained that she has young children, and is still keeping her husbands ashes 
hidden away because of the damage to the urn and the upset this matter has caused. 
This incident has clearly made things much worse for her as well. However, I must stress 
that I can only consider the actions of PayPal. And I must bear in mind that it wasnt PayPal 
who provided a damaged urn to her. Ive also seen the response from the supplier from 
when Mrs W first contacted them. I agree with Mrs W that they were insensitive and 
unhelpful. But a complaint against the supplier doesnt fall within the remit of our service. So, 
Im not able to make an award against them or consider their actions when making an award 
of compensation. I can only consider the actions of PayPal and impact they have had on Mrs 
W.
I do think PayPal shouldve done more here for the reasons set out above. Had it listened to 
Mrs W, then it mayve been able to sort out this problem much sooner. This matter has been 
going on for many months now. Had it listened to Mrs W, this wouldve meant her being able 
to have the urn repaired sooner and being able to put this incident behind her to some 
degree. I think the generic responses, and the lack of response to her follow up emails after 
it closed the claim made things worse. Ive thought carefully about this. But I find myself agreeing with our investigator that £500 is 
a fair amount of compensation in this situation. In coming to this amount, Ive also 
considered that a lot of the upset was caused by the urn supplier. And as Ive explained, I 
cant take that into account when making an award against PayPal.  
I recognise Mrs W will remain very unhappy. And I realise no amount of money will make 
things right here. But, as Ive said, I can only consider the impact of PayPals actions on Mrs 
W. And overall, I think this is a fair resolution.
Putting things right
I understand that PayPal has already provided Mrs W with a refund of £650. It should pay 
Mrs W a further £500 compensation for the distress and upset this matter has caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA to put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman