DRN-1514410
The complaint 
Mr Ds complaint is about UK Insurance Limiteds decision to refuse to pay part of his claim 
under a travel insurance policy. Mr D suffered a ski accident on holiday, and paid a $100 
CAD tip to a taxi driver who drove him four about five hours as part of the journey home. UK 
Insurance said that this wasnt a loss directly connected to the accident, while Mr D said that 
as tipping was customary in North America, it was part of the costs of his journey.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that UK Insurance has a responsibility 
to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy covers the additional travel costs needed to return you to the UK. I dont 
agree that the tip wasnt directly associated with the incident that caused the claim. 
If Mr D hadnt had the accident, he couldve driven back as planned. UKI accepts that 
it was reasonable for him to use a taxi to cover this part of his journey and paid the 
cost. 
The policy doesnt exclude tips, and theres no dispute that tips are customary in 
North America. UKI couldve clearly excluded tips from the policy, and didnt do so. 
When the terms of a policy are ambiguous, they should be interpreted in favour of the 
policyholder. I dont think its fair or reasonable to refuse to pay this, if theres 
evidence supporting Mr Ds claim that he paid the tip, particularly as I agree that 
failure to pay the tip in these circumstances was likely to lead to an argument with the 
driver and Mr D needed additional help due to his injury.
 
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Mr Ds 
complaint, UK Insurance Limited should repay Mr D $100 CAD (using the conversion rate in 
place at the time) with interest at 8% simple a year from the date of claim until the date of 
payment. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman