DRN-3966747
The complaint
Mr B held a debit card with HSBC UK Bank Plc. During 2021, he sent photographs of the 
card to a travel company (the company) to book a holiday for him. 
The company used Mr Bs card to buy many travel-related products for him, such as flights 
and hotel accommodation. Mr B now believes the company was fraudulent and overcharged 
(or scammed) him out of around £15,000. He wants HSBC to refund some of this money to 
him.
What happened
Most of the background to this complaint and the sequence of events which led to it have 
come from Mr B. HSBC has not said a great deal about the potential overcharge itself. Mr B 
has told us that it accepted he was a victim of fraud, although it has not confirmed this 
directly. 
From what Mr B has told us, he seems to have sent the photographs of his card to the 
company in the middle of July 2021. Between then and early October, the company made 
around 25 payments from the card, with a total value of just over £20,000. 
The origin of Mr Bs complaint, and the reason he considers the company scammed him, is 
that he believes the company kept some of the money for itself without making all the 
purchases it charged to his card. For example, hes told us that when buying some hotel 
accommodation, the company only paid the taxes, but charged the full price to his card and 
kept the difference. Hes told us that the holiday should have cost him around £5,000, not 
£20,000. He wants HSBC to refund some of the difference. At various stages of our 
investigation, he has mentioned he would accept half or a third of the money. HSBC has not 
offered any refund.
One of our investigators has already looked into Mr Bs complaint and didnt recommend that 
HSBC should give him any money back. Mr B didnt accept the investigators 
recommendation and asked for his complaint to be reassessed. So, it has come to me as an 
ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has sent HSBC and us a list of the payments he says the company made from his card 
and I have no reason to doubt the accuracy of this list. However, he hasnt said which 
payments he considers were reasonable and which he considers were fraudulent. So, I cant 
tell with certainty how much money, if any, the company scammed from Mr B. However, in 
this particular case, I do not need this information and I have considered it on the basis that 
some fraud may have taken place along the lines Mr B has described. 
For Mr Bs benefit, I would like to say that this decision only relates to the way HSBC 
responded to the potential fraud. I have not considered the conduct of the company. 
Mr B asked HSBC to refund him the money for two separate reasons. Firstly, hes said that 
the payments were fraudulent and HSBC should have realised (it) was a scam and either 
stopped the company making them or refunded the money to him once he reported them. 
Secondly, hes said that HSBC should claim them back for him using the debit-card 
protection scheme known as Chargeback.
I have considered the two parts of this complaint separately. But before I go any further, I 
would like to express my sympathy for Mr B as a victim of potential fraud. Sadly, fraud is a 
growing problem and can be very upsetting for its victims. Mr B has also told us that he 
suffers from some serious mental health problems and found the whole episode particularly 
distressing and confusing. I am really sorry to hear about this.
Should HSBC have stopped the companys payments or refunded them as fraud when Mr B 
reported them?
When a consumer authorises a payment from a debit card, we normally expect the card 
issuer, such as a bank (HSBC in this case) to pay it. However, we also expect banks to look 
out for unusual payments and to check with the consumer before proceeding with a payment 
if it looks potentially fraudulent.
As Mr B passed all his card details to the company, HSBC would not have been able to 
distinguish between payments made by the company and those he made himself. It was 
reasonable for it to treat payments the company made as if Mr B had authorised them 
personally. And there was nothing particularly unusual about the payments. Individually, they 
were for relatively modest amounts. They were not significantly different from other 
payments Mr B had made from his account and seem to have been to reputable businesses, 
such as well-known airlines and hotels. 
Mr B has said that as the total value of the payments the company made was over £20,000, 
HSBC should have intervened. However, I dont agree. The pattern of payments was not 
unusual for someone going on a holiday, admittedly a long and expensive one. And, if HSBC 
had checked them with Mr B, as he was expecting the company to buy travel products for 
him, I think its quite likely he would have allowed them to go ahead at the times they were 
made. 
After Mr B reported the potential fraud to HSBC I dont think it made any attempt to recover 
the money from the company. Recovering money after a possible fraud can be quite difficult 
and becomes more so as time passes. Mr B does not seem to have reported the potential 
fraud to HSBC for quite a while. Also, HSBC has told us that it thought the payments were to 
genuine retailers and did not fit with a scam as scammers would look to get the funds to 
an account where they could remove the funds from. It has added that it cannot see any 
grounds to consider a refund . 
Although, as I said earlier, I am considering this complaint on the basis that some fraud may 
have happened, I am satisfied that HSBC didnt have sufficient evidence to attempt to 
recover Mr Bs money for him, or to make a refund on other grounds. 
Should HSBC have tried to claim money for Mr B using chargeback?
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme. Although HSBC runs Mr Bs account, it doesnt run the 
scheme or set the rules under which it works. But it has to follow them. The scheme sets a deadline of 120 days for any claim to be made. HSBC has said that Mr B didnt request it to 
make a claim until after the deadline had passed. So, it didnt attempt to make a claim. 
Mr B has accepted that he missed the deadline but has asked for his case to be treated as 
exceptional and for the deadline to be waived for two reasons. Firstly, hes told us that he 
first raised his concerns with the company and it told him several times that it would arrange 
a refund. The refund didnt materialise, but he waited for several months believing it would, 
which led to his claim to HSBC being late. Secondly, hes told us that his mental health 
condition meant he was not of sound mind at the time of the payments. Hes added that 
no one of sound mind sends photos of...(their debit card) to strangers.
I accept the sincerity of Mr Bs view and the seriousness of his health condition. But the rules 
of the chargeback scheme do not allow for the deadline to be waived, so I think HSBCs 
decision not to make a claim on Mr Bs behalf was reasonable. 
Ive also considered if Mr Bs health condition meant that HSBC should have handled the 
fraud-related parts of Mr Bs complaint any differently. But at the time of the payments, he 
doesnt seem to have told HSBC anything about his condition and so I can see no reason 
why it should have changed its usual procedures for him.
So, in summary, although I dont know the extent of any fraud which the company may have 
committed, Im satisfied that if fraud did take place in the way Mr B has described, HSBC 
couldnt reasonably have been expected to spot it and prevent it. Im also satisfied that 
HSBC was right when it said that Mr B was too late when he asked it to make a chargeback 
claim on his behalf.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint about HSBC UK 
Bank Plc. I am not going to tell HSBC refund Mr B any money. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman