DRN-3052345
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Santander UK Plc misled him into applying for a credit card account.
What happened
Mr Z says Santander told him that if he applied for a credit card account then it was likely he 
would be accepted for it with a credit limit of £3,600. He says based on that information he 
applied for the account, but his application was rejected. Mr Z says Santander misled him 
into applying for the account and has caused him distress for which he would like £250 
compensation. He says Santander led him into believing he would be accepted for the 
account and has wasted his time and affected his credit file.
Santander says it hasnt made a mistake and no guarantee was made to Mr Z. It says it told 
him it was likely he would be successful, but any application would have to be fully checked.
Mr Z brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Santander hadnt misled Mr Z and had not told him that any application would be 
guaranteed to be successful. And that such an application would be checked. The 
investigator thought it likely any lending criteria used by Santander would be commercially 
sensitive.
Mr Z doesnt accept that view and says other lenders do not make such indications. He says 
Santanders actions were misleading.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr Z will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels 
about what took place.
I make clear to Mr Z that we are not Santanders regulator. So, its not our role to tell it how 
it, as in this case, carrys out its marketing or to direct it to provide details of its lending 
criteria.
I have looked carefully at the information that Mr Z was given by Santander about the credit 
card account. There is no dispute Santander told Mr Z that it likely he would be accepted 
for the account but that a full application was needed. I appreciate why Mr Z would have 
thought the account application would be approved. But Im satisfied that no guarantee was 
made by Santander and that it made clear that the application would be considered. So, it 
follows that I dont think Santander misled Mr Z or acted unfairly and that it made clear the 
application would need to be assessed.
I dont know why Mr Zs application was refused. But that is not something I can fairly 
interfere in as I think such matters are for a business to decide upon when exercising its 
commercial judgement.
I appreciate Mr Z says he has been caused distress and has wasted his time as a result of 
what took place. I think it was Mr Zs choice to apply for the account and I have made clear 
that the term likely does not mean a guarantee of anything. I also think it unreasonable to 
assume an application would be successful without it being fully considered.
Overall, Im satisfied that Santander made clear the credit card application was not 
guaranteed and was entitled to decide it didnt wish to provide a credit facility to Mr Z. It 
follows that I cant fairly order Santander to pay Mr Z the compensation he would like.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman