DRN-3537507
The complaint
Mr M complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card 
(HRG) acted irresponsibly when they agreed to provide him with a credit card and later 
increased his credit limit.   
What happened
In or around September 2015, Mr M submitted an online application to HRG for a credit card 
account. HRG assessed his application and agreed to provide the card and account with an 
initial credit limit of £400.
In July 2017, HRG offered to increase the credit limit on Mr Ms account to £600. This new 
limit was applied to Mr Ms account in August 2017.  
In January 2018, HRG offered to increase the credit limit on Mr Ms account again to £900. 
This new limit was applied to Mr Ms account in February 2018.  
Following a period where Mr M was suffering financial difficulties and struggling with what he 
owed, HRG sold Mr Ms outstanding debt with them to a third-party company.
In or around March 2021, Mr M submitted a complaint to HRG. He told them hed been 
experiencing financial difficulties and thought HRGs decision to provide him with a credit 
card and later increase his account limit meant theyd acted irresponsibly. Mr M thought 
there was a point that HRG shouldve stopped his account based upon his income to debt 
ratio. 
Mr M thought HRGs actions had led to him defaulting on other credit facilities. He wanted 
them to refund all interest and charges, remove any adverse information theyd reported on 
his credit file and consider writing off his remaining debt.
In their response to Mr Ms complaint, HRG didnt agree theyd acted irresponsibly when 
agreeing to provide him with a credit card and later increasing his credit limit. So, Mr M 
decided to refer his complaint to this service.
Have complete their investigation, our adjudicator didnt think HRG had acted irresponsibly 
when they first agreed Mr Ms credit card account. But they did think there was sufficient to 
have prompted HRG to complete further checks and tests before they increased Mr Ms limit 
in August 2017 and February 2018. Had those checks and tests been completed, our 
adjudicator thought it wouldve revealed that Mr M didnt have sufficient sustainable income 
to support the limit increases.
Our adjudicator thought HRG should refund any interest and charges incurred as a result of 
the limit increases they granted beyond the initial £400 limit. And if, after refunding these, it 
results in Mr M having repaid more than he owes them, HRG should refund any 
overpayment together with 8% simple interest on that amount. Our adjudicator also 
suggested HRG should make changes to the information reported on Mr Ms credit file once 
any remaining balance has been repaid.
HRG didnt agree with our adjudicators findings. They said theyd provided this service with 
details of all the checks theyd completed together with copies of letters theyd sent to Mr M 
before increasing his limit. They said theyd completed their internal checks and didnt 
believe theyd acted irresponsibly. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ms complaint has been passed to me to consider 
further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable or irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive considered this when deciding Mr Ms complaint.
The rules and guidance relevant at the time were set by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). These required HRG to carry out an 
assessment using reasonable and proportionate checks to determine whether Mr M could 
afford to repay the credit card in a sustainable way. Those checks needed to be borrower 
focussed and consider whether making the repayments could result in financial difficulties for 
Mr M.
This service believes that any checks needed to consider Mr Ms personal circumstances 
and would usually need to be more thorough:
the lower a consumers income; and
the higher the amount due to be repaid; and
the longer the term of the debt; and
the greater the number and frequency of debts.
Conversely, a less detailed affordability assessment, without the need for verification, is far 
more likely to be fair, reasonable, and proportionate where the amount to be repaid is 
relatively small, the financial situation appears stable, and the debt is for a relatively short 
period.
In cases where there isnt evidence that proportionate checks were carried out, I need to 
consider if those checks would likely have shown the credit was sustainably affordable.
HRG confirm they made appropriate checks with the credit reference agencies and 
assessed the information by their strategy at the time. They said they had no concerns and 
the decision to lend was justified. HRG also said they use affordability indicators to identify 
highly indebted consumers who are likely to experience an affordability challenge. Theyve 
provided details of the credit scores they used and confirmed these were within their risk 
appetite.
HRG are entitled to decide who they lend to and if they want to accept that risk. But that 
doesnt mean they dont have the same obligations as other lenders to perform borrower 
focused assessments that any lending they provide is affordable and sustainable.
Initial card application
Although HRG have provided their credit scoring details, I havent been provided with details 
of what their credit searches revealed. So, to help me better understand his circumstances 
at the time, Mr M has provided a copy of his personal credit report. This shows a record of 
four credit card accounts with reported limits of around £1,450. There appears to be nothing 
adverse reported and no evidence of late or missed payments. So, having considered this, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for HRG to agree the application and provide the limit they 
did.
Limit increase to £600 in August 2017
Mr Ms credit file shows an existing credit card limit appears to have been increased to 
£2,700 prior to HRGs increase. Theres also evidence hed taken two new loans totalling £1,057 with monthly repayments of £26 and £19. But he appears to have had difficulty 
making those payments on time. One is reported as having late payments on five occasions 
between September 2016 and June 2017. The second was reported as having late 
repayments on six occasions between June 2016 and June 2017 and immediately preceding 
HRGs limit increase. So, I think there was sufficient to suggest further tests and checks 
shouldve been completed.
Ive next considered what those test and checks mightve revealed. Mr M has provided this 
service with copies of some bank statements from 2015 to early 2018. I think they provide a 
fair indication of Mr Ms likely financial circumstances at the time. 
The statements show he received a regular weekly income of £104 increasing to £140 by 
the middle of 2015. So, a total earned income of around £7,000 a year. Theres also 
evidence of other irregular income that seems to derive from businesses specialising in the 
purchase of used mobile telephones. Mr Ms credit file shows evidence of regularly taking 
new telephone contracts. So, Mr M may have been purchasing mobile phones under new 
contracts and selling them to generate cash. The statements also suggest Mr Ms income 
was being fully utilised every month and theres evidence of direct debits being returned 
unpaid.
Im persuaded Mr Ms financial situation wasnt entirely stable. Particularly as he appears to 
have been trying to generate cash from selling newly contracted mobile phones. So, I dont 
believe a responsible lender, acting reasonably would have agreed to increase Mr Ms credit 
limit in these circumstances.
Limit increase to £900 in February 2018
The credit file suggests Mr M continued to be late with repayments to the two loans 
mentioned above. Theres evidence of three late payments on one and a further five on 
another. Theres also evidence of further new credit limits and multiple bank account 
applications.
Given my findings above, I believe there was sufficient to suggest that further checks and 
tests were appropriate here also. And as Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mr Ms financial 
circumstances had improved, Im persuaded that a further limit increase doesnt appear to 
have been appropriate either.  
Putting things right
As I dont think HRG shouldve increased Mr Ms credit limit from £400, I dont think its fair 
for them to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that limit. 
However, Mr M has had the benefit of all the money he spent on the account. So, I think he 
should pay this back. Therefore, HRG should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to 
balances above £400. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr M along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. HRG should also remove all adverse information recorded after 2 
August 2017 regarding this account from Mr Ms credit file. 
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £400, HRG should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr M for the remaining amount. Once he 
has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 2 
August 2017 in relation to the account should be removed from his credit file. 
As HRG has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the debt or 
liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is carried out promptly. *HM Revenue & Customs requires HRG to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I require Home Retail Group Card 
Services Limited trading as Argos Card to provide a resolution as Ive laid down above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman