DRN-2902939
The complaint
Miss W complains about the level of service provided by Provident Personal Credit Limited 
(trading as Satsuma) in regard to her instalment loans. She wants compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
What happened
Miss W had two loans with Satsuma that were passed to a debt collection agency. A 
payment plan was agreed, and the agency told Miss W how much remained outstanding to 
clear the debt. Satsuma than recalled the accounts and told Miss W that an amount 
remained owing. 
Miss W was unhappy that she had been told the balance had been cleared, with the agents 
customer service, that she couldnt access her accounts online, and with its handling of her 
complaint. Satsuma said it should have registered Miss Ws complaint earlier and agreed 
shed been told the wrong balance outstanding. It waived her £80 outstanding balances as a 
gesture of goodwill and the agency paid her £30 compensation for her trouble and upset. But 
Miss W wanted further compensation for the severe anxiety she said had been caused. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought there 
had been errors but that the compensation offered was sufficient for these. He thought 
Satsuma was entitled by its terms and conditions to use another agency to help manage its 
accounts and it wasnt obliged to tell Miss W that it was recalling these. He couldnt see 
evidence that the staff had been rude to Miss W. And he didnt think it was unreasonable for 
Satsuma to close the online accounts when they were transferred to another agency.
Miss W replied that she thought Satsuma had messed her around and hadnt provided the 
requested evidence of her balances. She wanted her complaint reviewed by an ombudsman, 
so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss W felt frustrated when she found that the accounts, which she 
thought were settled, still had balances outstanding. Satsuma agrees that Miss W was given 
incorrect information about her balances. And it agrees that it should have registered her 
complaint earlier. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Satsuma accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Miss W thought her accounts had been cleared and closed. But I can see that she was given 
incorrect information about the amounts outstanding. This was due to payment reversals she 
requested that were actioned by the agency, but that Miss W later decided to withdraw. 
There was then some confusion about this as the accounts were recalled by Satsuma. From 
what I can see, Miss W was refunded the reversed amounts. 
I can see that Satsumas statement of what was still owed was correct. But I agree there was 
confusion and that Miss W was provided with incorrect information. To put things right, 
Satsuma waived the £80 still owing on the loans and the accounts are now closed. Its also 
provided Miss W with a statement of accounts. The agency also paid Miss W £30 
compensation for providing incorrect information. 
I cant see that the errors caused Miss W any financial loss. And I think Satsuma responded 
reasonably promptly to Miss Ws concern when she raised it. So I think this puts Miss W 
back into the position she thought she should be in.
Like the adjudicator, Ive looked at Satsumas terms and conditions for its loan agreements. 
And I agree that its entitled to use other agencies to manage accounts and collect 
payments. I cant see that it was obliged to tell Miss W that it had recalled her accounts. I 
think Satsuma isnt obliged to provide Miss W with online access to her accounts. So I cant 
say that it did anything wrong in this and I cant see anything untoward in its actions. 
Satsuma agreed that it should have registered Miss Ws complaint sooner. It took her three 
emails to achieve this. And I can see that this caused Miss W some frustration. But I dont 
think this warrants any compensation. 
Ive looked at Satsumas emails to Miss W and I cant see evidence that the staff were rude 
to her. 
I can understand that Miss W felt messed around when she was trying to clear her debts 
with Satsuma. But I think Satsuma has acted fairly and reasonably to restore Miss Ws 
position and has taken into account the impact its errors have had on her. I dont think it 
needs to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman