DRN-1720277
The complaint
Mr N and Mrs K are unhappy with their dealings with Nationwide Building Society after they 
fell victim to a banking payment scam. They say Nationwide should reimburse them for the 
money they lost.
What happened
On 3 October 2018, Mr N and Mrs K authorised an in-branch payment of £3,650 to a third 
party for a car. They contacted Nationwide on 9 October 2018 to inform it theyd been the 
victim of a scam as they hadnt received the car and could no longer contact the seller. 
Nationwide contacted the beneficiary bank the same day to try and recover Mr N and 
Mrs Ks funds. Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank eventually confirmed no funds could be 
recovered. Nationwide passed that information on to Mr N and Mrs K in November 2019. It 
accepted it should have advised Mr N and Mrs K of the outcome sooner and kept them 
better informed of its progress. For that, Nationwide apologised and paid them £250 as 
compensation. 
Unhappy with Nationwide response, Mr N and Mrs K complained to us. Our adjudicator 
didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as they didnt think Nationwide should have done 
more to identify the scam in the circumstances. And they felt Nationwide had done enough 
to try and recover the funds from the beneficiary bank. The adjudicator believed 
Nationwides offer of compensation was fair.
Mr N and Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the case was passed to me 
to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at laws that a banks expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And Ive taken that into 
account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare duty).    
Regulated firms like Nationwide are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).  
And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have 
taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable circumstances, 
including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which a 
number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years  which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
In this case, I need to decide whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr N and Mrs K when they transferred £3,650, or whether it should have done more 
than it did. 
Im very sorry to see that Mr N and Mrs K lost this money. But, having looked at the 
circumstances, I do think Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in allowing the money to 
leave Mr N and Mrs Ks account. And I think it took appropriate steps to try and recover 
funds from the beneficiary bank. So, I dont believe it needs to reimburse Mr N and Mrs K for 
the money they lost. Ill explain why.
Mr N and Mrs K accept that they authorised the payment themselves. Because of this, 
Nationwide had an obligation to follow Mr N and Mrs Ks instructions. But there are some 
situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances 
surrounding the payment.
Ive thought about this carefully. In doing so, Ive looked at the statements for the account in 
the months leading up to the payment, and I dont think the type of payment or the amount 
was particularly suspicious in comparison to the normal activity on Mr N and Mrs Ks 
account. For example, in September 2018  the month before the scam  a payment was 
made from their account to an individual for £1,500. I realise that was less than they 
transferred to the scammer, but it does indicate to me that theyd paid third parties relatively 
large sums of money in the recent past.Overall, I dont think there was anything in the payment to the scammer such that 
Nationwide ought reasonably to have regarded it as suspicious in the circumstances.
Mr N and Mrs K contacted Nationwide on 9 October 2018 when they became aware that 
theyd been the victim of a scam  six days after authorising the payment. Nationwide raised 
a scam complaint and contacted the beneficiary bank on the same day to request a return of 
the funds. Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank ultimately confirmed that none of the money 
remained. I dont find that surprising given scammers typically withdraw funds quickly.
In the circumstances, I think Nationwide did what it could to try and recover Mr N and 
Mrs Ks funds despite the time that passed between the payment being made and 
Nationwide being notified of the scam.  
Ive thought about what Mr N and Mrs K have said about another occasion on which they 
were scammed. That case also involved payments made in October 2018 for a car that 
wasnt delivered to them. Mr N and Mrs Ks bank  which wasnt Nationwide  agreed 
among other things to reimburse them for the money they lost. 
However, Im required to reach decisions based on whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of each case. The fact that another bank reimbursed Mr N and Mrs K doesnt 
automatically mean Nationwide should do the same. 
In this case, while I appreciate Mr N and Mrs K have been the unfortunate victims of a scam, 
I think Nationwides decision not to refund them in this instance was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. I say this because it followed Mr N and Mrs Ks instructions to make the 
transfer and I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. And I think it took 
appropriate steps to try and recover the funds once it was notified of the scam.
That said, I recognise that Nationwide could have done more to keep Mr N and Mrs K better 
informed regarding the attempted recovery of their money. And that it ought to have 
informed them much sooner than it did once the beneficiary bank confirmed no funds could 
be recovered. But I cant see that Nationwides actions led to any financial loss. 
Taking this all into account, I think the £250 Nationwides already paid to Mr N and Mrs Ks 
appropriate in the circumstances. I dont think Nationwide needs to pay them any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman