DRN-1227438
The complaint
Mrs L complains that U K Insurance Limited hasnt fairly dealt with a claim she made under 
her travel insurance policy following the theft of her suitcase. 
What happened
In August 2019 Mrs Ls suitcase was stolen from a hire car whilst she was on holiday. She 
made a claim under her travel insurance policy underwritten by UKI. 
Mrs L has receipts for two items that were in the suitcase that were recent purchases. But 
she doesnt have receipts for older items. UKI offered to consider paying 50% of the amount 
she was claiming as a gesture of goodwill. But said it couldnt consider the full amount shed 
asked for without further evidence of the costs she was claiming. 
Mrs L doesnt think this is fair. She argues that most people wouldnt keep receipts for the 
types of item that she had in her suitcase (clothing, toiletries, make-up and an electric 
toothbrush). Shes also pointed out that shes claiming considerably less than the £1,500 her 
policy provides cover for. In addition she complains that UKI asked her to get a police report 
 which she obtained with difficulty - before telling her it didnt need her to send this in. To 
resolve her complaint she feels UKI should pay her the full amount she is claiming, which is 
approximately £400. 
Our investigator felt UKI was entitled to ask Mrs L for proof of ownership of the items. But 
didnt feel that its decision to deduct a percentage of the value of the items she wasnt able 
to provide evidence for was fair. They recommended UKI pay the full cost of Mrs Ls claim, 
with an additional 8% interest to account for the time shed been without the settlement.
The investigator was satisfied Mrs L was claiming for items likely to be found in holiday 
baggage, noted that none of these were of particularly high value, and said they couldnt see 
UKI was disputing that the items had been lost in a theft. They felt that not even the most 
diligent of policyholders would be able to evidence everything they owned, and didnt think it 
was unreasonable Mrs L couldnt provide proof of purchase for every item claimed. 
UKI didnt agree with our investigators recommendations. It said Mrs L was unable to 
provide proof for a substantial amount of her contents and feels it dealt with her claim fairly. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering this complaint Ive looked carefully at UKIs policy wording. I can see that 
Part 3 - Cover for your property sets out the following:
L - Personal possessions
What you are covered for
1. Lost, damaged or stolen personal possessions
We will provide cover for up to a maximum of 1500. per insured person for personal 
possessions that are lost, damaged or stolen whilst on your journey.
There are a number of Claims conditions attached to this, including a provision that the 
policyholder must;
6. Provide us with proof of ownership for the items you are claiming for to substantiate your 
claim.
So I accept that UKI was entitled to request proof of ownership from Mrs L, and that 
provision of this is a condition of its policy. 
However, industry guidance and regulations including those found in the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook and the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) are 
clear that an insurer must also apply policy conditions in such a way as to treat a customer 
fairly. So I have to consider if UKI has done that here.
Mrs L collected evidence to demonstrate proof of her travel and obtained a police report 
detailing the theft. I can see UKIs claim notes indicate it discussed these documents with 
Mrs L and was satisfied that she didnt need to send it any further details of these. This 
suggests to me that UKI accepts that Mrs Ls suitcase was stolen in the circumstances she 
described. And Im also persuaded that this was the case. And therefore I accept that she 
also lost the contents of the suitcase.
Mrs L provided a breakdown of these contents and cost estimates to UKI. This included the 
suitcase (£80), 2 pairs of pajamas (£24), a pair of trousers (£16), some tops (£20), electric 
toothbrush (£30), toiletries and make-up (£60), pashmina (£50), fleece (£7), cardigan (£17), 
and a bag (£6). Mrs L isnt able to provide proof of ownership for these items, but she does 
have receipts for an additional two items that were taken - a dress (£32) and a cardigan 
(£17.50). 
This list is consistent with the types of items Id expect someone to take on a 10 day holiday. 
I dont think any of the cost estimates provided are excessive  clothes and toiletries can be 
purchased at much higher prices than the value that Mrs L is claiming for. And I agree its 
unlikely Mrs L wouldve keep receipts for these types and value of purchase. 
I appreciate UKI suggested Mrs L could alternatively provide photographs of herself wearing 
the stolen clothes or highlight transactions on her bank statements to indicate where and 
when the items were purchased. But again, given the nature and age of the items I dont 
think its unusual that she hasnt been able to do this. A lot of people arent regularly 
photographed. And I wouldnt expect Mrs L to necessarily remember specific details 
surrounding purchases like this to be able to highlight banking transactions. 
I understand UKIs need to ask for evidence of costs in order to protect itself from false or 
exaggerated claims. And I appreciate it has acted in line with its standard internal policy 
when offering Mrs L a reduced settlement here. I also note that Mrs L has only been able to provide proof of ownership for a relatively small proportion of the items she is claiming. 
However Im satisfied that she has done enough to evidence that her suitcase was stolen, 
and has provided a reasonable breakdown and cost estimate of its contents. 
UKI says that it has calculated the settlement in this case based on previous decisions 
issued by ombudsman at our service. But every case is different and my role is to consider 
what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this case. Mrs L isnt claiming 
for a lot of items and they arent high value. Ive also found what shes said to be credible 
and plausible. So, on the facts of this case I dont think it was fair for UKI to apply a 
percentage deduction to the costs she is seeking. 
I therefore feel UKI should reconsider Mrs Ls claim without applying its proposed settlement 
deduction, subject to the remaining policy terms and excess.
I can see Mrs L has suggested to our investigator that she was rushed when she gave UKI 
her initial breakdown of items claimed for and has remembered a few additional items that 
were in her suitcase. Should Mrs L and UKI disagree about the resulting claim payment Mrs 
L would be entitled to make a fresh complaint to this service. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I require U K Insurance Limited to reassess and pay Mrs Ls claim in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of her policy.
It should also pay Mrs L 8% simple interest per annum on this settlement amount, to be 
calculated from the effective date of claim until the date the settlement is paid. *
*If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Mrs L how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs L a certificate showing this, if asked, so tax can be reclaimed 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman