DRN-3644891
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt apply the refund he received for a transaction 
in the same invoice period as the transaction took place.
What happened
Mr D made a transaction of £288 which appeared on his March credit card statement. A 
credit of £108 was applied to his account on 17 March and this appeared on his April 
statement. He says that HSBC refused to apply the credit to his March statement meaning 
he had to pay £108 that had already been credited to his account. He says credits should be 
applied to the invoice where the original debit takes place. He says this also happened on 
another transaction. 
HSBC said that interest is charged if a balance isnt repaid in full by the payment due date 
and that once a statement has been produced a payment for the amount shown on that 
statement must be paid by the due date to avoid interest. It said for the refund to be taken 
into consideration in the same month of the transaction it would need to have credited Mr Ds 
account before the statement was produced. In response to the service issues Mr D raised 
HSBC offered to pay him £50 compensation.
Our investigator said that HSBC had acted within the accounts terms and conditions and 
didnt find that Mr D had suffered any financial loss as a result of the issue he raised about 
his refund. In regard to the service provided, he thought that HSBC could have explained the 
situation better and said the offer of £50 compensation was reasonable. 
Mr D didnt agree. He said he hadnt disputed that HSBC had followed its procedures but 
said that its procedures for appropriating credits for previous bills was unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the complaint Mr D has raised and his comments that this wasnt about whether 
HSBC had followed its procedures but whether those procedures were fair. While I 
appreciate this point, our role isnt to decide a banks policies or procedures but instead to 
consider if these had been applied fairly and whether any mistakes have been made.
In this case the issue has arisen as Mr D received a refund in a different statement period to 
when the original transaction took place. The initial transaction was recorded on 8 March 
and the relevant statement was produced on 16 March. Following this a partial refund was 
applied on 17 March and this was shown on the following account statement. HSBC has 
explained how transactions and refunds are applied and it has followed its usual procedures 
in regard to Mr Ds transaction and refund. 
So while I note Mr Ds comments, as I do not find that HSBC has done anything wrong in 
regard to Mr Ds account and I do not have evidence that he has been treated unfairly, I do 
not find I can uphold this part of Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D also complained about the service provided by HSBC. I have listened to the call 
recordings that have bene provided and I agree that Mr D could have received better 
service. This will have been frustrating for Mr D and considering this I think the £50 
compensation offered is reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should, as it has offered, pay Mr D £50 
compensation for the service he received. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman