DRN-3134876
The complaint
X and Mrs A are unhappy with St Andrews Insurance Plc (SAI) handling of the claim made 
on their home insurance policy for a drainage problem.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by 
our investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my 
decision.
In July 2020, X made a claim as waste water and sewage was coming up from a 
manhole adjacent to the property and onto their drive. 
SAIs contractor attended and tried to unblock the gully but was unsuccessful. It 
said it would need to return to do an excavation.
SAI excavated concrete driveway exposing the surface water gully pipework  it 
says rodding and high-powered water jetting (HPWJ) failed to get flow in the run. 
However, it says drain tracing was possible and both jet and tracing was obstructed 
in public highway.  A main manhole directly in line with the run was opened and this 
was found to be full as well. It therefore said the problem was the responsibility of 
the local water authority as it was outside of X and Mrs As property boundary.
X says the local water authority attended in July 2020 and cleared the gully on their 
property and cleared the discharge sewer. X says the problem was still occurring.
In August 2020, SAI returned, it opened the initial access again and attempted to 
clear but this wasnt successful so it recommended excavating at the boundary of 
property so it could try HPWJ and do a CCTV survey to determine where the 
defect/blockage may be.
In September 2020, a second excavation uncovered a storm water submain within 
property boundary. SAI said the 9 submain was full and after further tracing it 
followed it to the public footpath manhole at side of property. It found this to be full 
of silt debris and dye testing was also evident. It therefore believes the defect is on 
public land and remains the responsibility of the local water authority.
Following this X contacted their local council that has responsibility for the road 
drainage infrastructure, it said Xs gullies shouldnt be connected to any gullies on 
the carriageway, but it will also arrange for gullies to be cleared when it has the 
resource  this is currently still outstanding. X having no success returned to SAI for 
help.
In February 2021, SAI returned, and it excavated again where the 9 concrete 
pipework is located - about 2 metres from the boundary. It says the pipework has 
been traced, dye tested, and it left the excavation open so that X could get the local 
water authority to inspect it.
The water authority returned but once again told X that the issue is within the 
property boundary. So, in July 2021, SAI carried out further investigations, it 
concluded the same results as previous inspections. It also completed dye testing 
from the adjoining semi-detached property that is upstream and one more property 
beyond that - dye was evident from both. SAI says this demonstrates that this is a 
shared drainage run and it therefore remains the responsibility of the local water 
authority. 
In October 2021, X has provided an email from their local council saying its not 
their responsibility for the drainage pipe that leaves the property and outlets to the 
road gully adjacent to their home. The drain is to drain excess water form 
carriageway only. It says the drainage line from Xs home should not be connected 
to it and says the drainage needs to be redirected to a more suitable outlet.
Our investigator didnt uphold X and Mrs As complaint.  He felt on balance that SAI 
had carried out numerous inspections and that the blockage is likely to be outside of 
Xs property boundary. 
X didnt agree, they feel theyre just being passed from SAI to the local water 
authority and local council and no one is taking responsibility. X says the gully is 
about 7 metres on their land and only about a metre on public land so feels that SAI 
should deal with the problem. The complaint has therefore been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to say that I can empathise with X and Mrs As frustration as it appears, they 
are being passed around from one party to another. But this complaint is set-up against SAI, 
so I can only look at the actions that SAI have taken and consider if it acted in-line with the 
policy terms and acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances.
I understand Xs comment that the length of the gully is more on their land than public land 
but that doesnt mean that the problem automatically becomes SAIs problem to deal with it. 
It depends where the blockage or defect is and if this is in the section of the gully on public 
land then SAI will not have the authority to deal with it.
Having looked at the drainage report I can see SAI have completed several investigations 
and excavated to try and identify the problem. It has jetted the pipes within the property, it 
has excavated and carried out CCTV survey and this seems to show that blockage is 
beyond the property boundary. I appreciate that X has said that the water authority has told 
them its not their responsibility as it says the blockage is on private land, but Ive not seen 
any evidence from the water authority to show this. If X is able to get evidence from the 
water authority, then Id expect SAI to reconsider the claim in line with its remaining policy 
terms and conditions. 
X has also provided information from the local council that has the responsibility for the road 
drainage infrastructure and it clearly doesnt think it has any responsibility with the issues.  
SAI in its latest tests identified by way of dye testing that this is a shared drainage run with 
neighbouring properties, so this has also led it to believe that this is the responsibility of the 
local water authority. Im persuaded on the evidence Ive seen that SAI have carried out 
thorough investigations and that the blockage is more likely than not, to be outside of X and 
Mrs As property boundary and is a shared drainage run. So, I think this is the responsibility 
of the local water authority and not SAI. Im therefore satisfied that SAI have done everything 
it can so far to try and identify the problem and carry out whats required of it under the 
policy.Ive also noted X and Mrs A are unhappy with the delays as part of their complaint. Ive 
considered this, but I can see SAI initially declined the claim not long after it was raised with 
it and as I think it more likely than not that the defect/blockage is the responsibility of the 
local water authority I think its reasonable to say theyre also responsible for the delays and 
not SAI. So, I wont be asking SAI to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and X to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman