DRN-3960007
The complaint
The executors of the estate of Miss G have complained that Zurich Assurance Ltd paid out 
the proceeds of a pension plan to the estate of Miss G when they ought to have been paid 
directly to a beneficiary. The executors say this caused the estate to incur an inheritance tax 
(IHT) liability.
What happened
The late Miss G had two pension plans with a business now owned by Zurich; a Personal 
Retirement Plan (PRP) taken out in 1987 and a Personal Pension Plan (PPP) taken out in 
1988.
Miss G sadly passed away in 2018 and the executors of the estate made enquiries with 
Zurich about payment of the death benefits attached to each plan. The PPP death benefit 
was paid outside of the estate to the beneficiaries, however, the death benefit attached to 
the PRP was paid to the estate. The executors of the estate subsequently complained that 
this had caused the estate to incur an IHT liability. The executors said Miss G had been told 
in 1987 that the death benefit attached to the PRP would be paid to her beneficiaries free of 
tax and she had nominated a beneficiary to receive the proceeds of this plan.
Zurich told the executors that the death benefits had been paid correctly. It said Miss G had 
nominated a beneficiary in respect of the PPP but it wasnt possible to do this for the PRP. It 
said Miss Gs adviser had written to her in 2000 to explain that the PRP was not held in trust 
so could be subject to IHT. As Miss G hadnt arranged to place the policy in trust, it didnt 
uphold the complaint. The executors acknowledged this letter but explained the adviser had 
also said the PPP wasnt in trust, which wasnt true  so it didnt think Zurich could rely on 
this correspondence. They thought Miss G had been misled throughout her dealings with 
Zurich and referred the complaint to our Service.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He noted that Miss G had probably been 
misinformed about the tax position of the PRP in 1987, but this had been clarified in 2000. 
As Miss G hadnt followed up on this to place the PRP in trust, he didnt think Zurich had 
paid the death benefit to the wrong party. The Investigator didnt think it was significant that 
the adviser had made a mistake in relation to the PPP because ultimately the advice it gave 
in relation to the PRP was correct and Miss G was informed of what she needed to do to 
ensure the plan proceeds fell outside of her estate.
The executors provided further evidence from 1989 which it said demonstrated the PRP was 
in trust and Miss G had already nominated a beneficiary for the death benefit attached. It 
also sent further correspondence from 2000  it said this showed Zurich hadnt fully 
explained the implications of putting the policy in trust. And that Miss G had concerns with 
the overall service provided to her.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view on the matter so the complaint was 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for largely the same reasons as the 
Investigator.
I should first say that I dont think Zurich has acted unfairly by paying the death benefit 
attached to the PRP to the estate. Ive considered the executors comments about Miss Gs 
belief that she had nominated a beneficiary for this plan, and the documents that they say 
demonstrates this. But Im not persuaded that the evidence supports this position.
Ive seen a copy of the application forms for both the PRP and the PPP. While the PPP 
application form contains a Nomination of Beneficiaries section (which Miss G completed), 
the PRP application form does not. And Im not persuaded that the Confidential Financial 
Review document from December 1989 shows that the policy was In Trust and had an 
Intended Beneficiary either. The executors say this question is marked yes, but I think the 
yes entered relates to a different question because it is situated two rows beneath the trust 
and beneficiary question and is actually next to a different question. So overall, Im satisfied 
that the PRP was not in trust and Miss G had not previously nominated a beneficiary to 
receive the death benefits attached to it.
I do, however, acknowledge that Miss G had received conflicting information in the past 
about the tax position of the death benefit attached to the PRP. Miss G received a letter in 
April 1987, shortly after the PRP was set up, in which the adviser said:
Should you die before retirement, the death benefit, which will be the bid value of the 
Accumulation Units, will be paid to your dependants free of tax.
So, I think its fair to say at this time Miss G wouldve understood this to mean that in the 
event of her death the proceeds of the plan would be paid outside of her estate. And Zurich 
accepts it misinformed Miss G here. However, its clear to me that this understanding of the 
tax position was corrected by Zurich in 2000.
Miss G wrote to the Zurich adviser in February 2000 asking, amongst other things, whether 
her pension (she didnt specify which one) was part of her estate and what would happen to 
the money in it if she were to die. The adviser responded comprehensively by letter dated 
15 March 2000, saying:
The current situation is that neither plan [the PRP] nor your SERPS plan [the PPP] are in 
Trust. Currently, if you were to die, the Fund Value would be payable to your Estate. This 
would mean that before your beneficiaries could receive the proceeds, probate would need 
to be granted, and there would be a potential liability to Inheritance Tax on transfer of the 
proceeds via the terms of your Will.
By putting the plans in Trust, [Zurich] can pay the fund values to your surviving trustees and 
it would be their responsibility to make sure the beneficiaries, as stated on the trust, received 
the money - thus bypassing probate.
Both policies should be in Trust. These would be separate and at no cost to you
I accept that the adviser incorrectly stated the PPP wasnt in trust  although it hadnt been 
placed into a separate trust, it was already held in a master trust. But that mistake hasnt had 
any impact, and had Miss G proceeded to put the pensions in trust, its likely that point wouldve been clarified. And in any event, the advice given in respect of the PRP was correct 
 it wasnt in trust and Miss G was informed that the death benefit would be payable to the 
estate and would potentially trigger an IHT liability.
It is also evident from further correspondence between Miss G and the adviser in 2000 that 
Miss G understood the PRP would need to be placed in trust. In her letter dated 
26 November 2000, Miss G acknowledged that shed received the trust forms and had read 
them. She said that having noted they would have lasting legal and tax consequences she 
had decided not to complete them until she could understand them. Although it isnt known 
why, it appears Miss G didnt revert back to Zurich about putting the pensions in trust before 
her death.
The executors say Zurich needed to do more to help Miss G understand the trust 
documents. However, I think its reasonable to assume from Miss Gs letter that she wanted 
to take legal advice before completing them. And I think its likely the adviser wouldve 
suggested she do the same, given that he could not have advised Miss G on any of the legal 
consequences of putting the pensions in trust. So, I dont think Zurich treated Miss G unfairly 
here.
I dont doubt that when Miss G was later putting her affairs in order, she believed that her 
pensions with Zurich would fall outside of her estate  her own notes support this belief. 
However, I think Zurich made it clear to Miss G in 2000 that the PRP was not held in trust 
and that the proceeds of the plan would be paid to her estate in the event of her death. It 
also provided her with trust documents to enable her to address this issue. And as Miss G 
didnt return the completed trust deed, I think Zurich acted fairly when it paid the proceeds of 
the PRP to the estate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the executors of 
the estate of Miss G to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman