DRN-3805192
The complaint
Mr R complains Santander UK Plc wrongly told him that hed be able to extend the term of 
his interest-only mortgage until he reached the age of 70. Mr R says Santander later 
declined his request because it had concerns about affordability and said it would be starting 
legal action to repossess his property.
Mr R says Santanders actions resulted in him missing the opportunity to secure a 12-month 
extension under Santanders Covid-19 mortgage extension scheme and the matter has had 
a detrimental impact on his mental health.
What happened
In 2006, Mr R took out an interest-only mortgage with Santander. The loan amount was 
£90,000 and the term was 15 years. Mr R was to pay a variable rate of 0.29% above the 
Bank of Englands base rate, which was 4.5% at that time, for 24 months. After this, the rate 
would revert to Santanders Standard Variable Rate (SVR) for the remainder of the term, 
which was 6.5% at that time.
The mortgage was due to end in July 2021. Mr R says Santander told him in March 2021 
that he could extend the term of his mortgage until he reached the age of 70, which would 
have been for around nine years. He says he was told he didnt need to pass an affordability 
assessment if he agreed to sell the property to repay the loan by the end of the term 
extension, which Mr R says he was willing to do. 
Mr R also says Santander told him to delay making any application until his mortgage 
endowment policy matured in November 2021, which I understand was significantly 
underperforming. 
Following telephone conversations Mr R had with Santander in July 2021, Mr R was sent an 
offer to extend the mortgage for 12 months under Santanders Covid-19 scheme. However, 
Mr R didnt accept this offer and when the mortgage ended, Santander applied its Follow-on 
Rate, which was 3.35%.
In December 2021, Mr R contacted Santander again and was informed the deadline to apply 
for a 12-month Covid-19 extension had expired in October 2021. Mr R requested a term 
extension until the age of 70, but after a brief assessment of Mr Rs circumstances, 
Santander said it couldnt progress his request due to concerns it had about affordability.
Mr R thought Santander had misled him. He said if hed known at the outset Santander 
wouldnt agree to a term extension, he would have secured a 12-month Covid-19 extension 
before the scheme ended in October 2021.
Mr R complained to Santander and on 28 December 2021 it issued its final response letter. It 
didnt agree it had done anything wrong. In summary, it said it had made it clear to Mr R that 
he would need to go through an application process, and it didnt guarantee his application 
would be approved. It also said it had agreed to a 12-month Covid-19 extension in           
July 2021, but because Mr R didnt return the paperwork, the extension wasnt applied.
I understand that in January 2022, Santander told Mr R that it would be starting legal 
proceedings to take possession of his property.
Since Mr R was unhappy with Santanders response, he registered a complaint with our 
service. In summary, he said:
He was wrongly advised by Santander in March 2021 that he could extend his 
mortgage to the age of 70
Santander told him to delay his application until November 2021, and this resulted in 
him missing the deadline to secure a 12-month Covid-19 extension
He felt Santander had started repossession action prematurely and hadnt taken his 
mental health into consideration. He felt Santander should allow him more time to 
find a solution and agree to communicate by email only
In March 2022, Santander agreed to a fixed rate product transfer at the rate of 2.99% which 
will end in June 2023.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Rs complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
She didnt agree Santander had wrongly advised Mr R that he would be able to get 
an extension to the age of 70 and she didnt think Santander had acted unfairly in 
the circumstances when it declined Mr Rs request
She didnt think Santander was responsible for Mr R not securing a Covid-19 
extension in time and she felt Santander had acted reasonably by agreeing to a 
fixed term product transfer in March 2022, giving Mr R more time to find a solution 
She accepted Santander may have had concerns about the security of 
communicating by email only, but she felt it should try to accommodate                   
Mr Rs request where possible in the future 
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator. As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about whether Mr R was wrongly informed he could extend the 
term of his mortgage to the age of 70 if he agreed to sell his property at the end of the term.Ive listened to the telephone conversation that took place on 16 March 2021. Santander did 
say Mr R could apply for a term extension up to the age of 70, but it also went on to say that 
it couldnt guarantee this would be approved. The Santander employee explained that any 
application would be reviewed by a different department and that Mr Rs budget and 
creditors would be taken into consideration. He also said that receiving benefits might impact 
the outcome of the application.
Mr R was also told that if there wasnt a repayment vehicle in place to repay the balance at 
the end of the term, he would be expected to confirm he would sell the property to repay the 
balance. Importantly, I didnt hear Santander tell Mr R that if he agreed to do this, he 
wouldnt need to pass any affordability assessment or that any assessment would be 
considered more favourably.
On 6 July 2021, Mr R spoke to a different Santander employee. Mr R said hed been told 
previously that he could extend the mortgage until the age of 70 if he agreed to sell his 
property, and Santander confirmed that he would have to go through an application process, 
which would involve a review of affordability. Mr R said hed been told previously that 
Santander would take a more sympathetic view and the employee confirmed that this was in 
relation to a 12-month Covid-19 extension.
Considering this, Im satisfied it was made clear to Mr R during the conversations in March 
and July 2021 that if he wanted to extend the term of his mortgage up to the age of 70, he 
would need to go through an application process, which would include an affordability 
assessment. Further, any previous misunderstanding Mr R may have had about this had 
been corrected during the conversations he had with Santander in July 2021.
Ive also considered whether Mr R was told to delay making an application until       
November 2021, and whether this resulted in him missing the opportunity to get a 12-month 
Covid-19 extension. 
During a conversation that took place on 6 July 2021, there was a discussion about            
Mr R delaying his application due to there being a credit on his account, which needed to be 
cleared before any application could be considered. Santander confirmed Mr R could still 
have a 12-month Covid-19 extension and he wouldnt be tied into the term, so it wouldnt 
prevent him from making a request for a longer extension. Mr R confirmed he wanted a 
Covid-19 extension, and an offer was sent to him the next day.
Given that Mr R was sent an offer and was also told that agreeing to it wouldnt prevent him 
from making a further application, I dont think Santander was responsible for Mr R not 
securing a 12-month extension before the Covid-19 scheme ended in October 2021. Further, 
even if I did think Santander was responsible for Mr R missing the deadline, it later went on 
to agree to a fixed rate product transfer at the rate of 2.99%, which is the same rate it offered 
for its Covid-19 extension. So, there isnt anything further I would ask it to do.
Ive also gone on to consider whether Santanders decision not to progress Mr Rs request 
for a term extension in December 2021 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I understand Mr R wasnt able to make a payment towards the balance outstanding and he 
intended to sell his property at the end of the extension requested to repay the balance.     
Mr R had been unemployed for over five years due to ill health, and he received a weekly 
Job Seekers Allowance (JSA) payment of £120. He also received a monthly Support for 
Mortgage Interest (SMI) payment of £120. This left a shortfall on the monthly repayment of 
around £100, which Mr R needed to fund, and I understand he had previously funded using 
credit that had accumulated on his account from previous SMI payments. Having considered 
Mr Rs circumstances, I can see why Santander had concerns about affordability. The rules of mortgage regulation (known as MCOB) say that a business can overlook any 
concerns it has about affordability where it thinks it would otherwise be in the customers 
best interests to allow the application.
Santander hasnt provided any specific comments about this. However, I have gone on to 
consider whether the term extension requested would have been in Mr Rs best interests.
Even though Mr R wants to remain living in his property, that doesnt mean it would 
necessarily be in his best interests in the long term. Hed end up paying more interest 
making it more expensive for him overall, and he might find himself in a similar position, not 
wanting to sell the property at the end of the term. Theres also a risk that the value of the 
property might fall in the meantime or not rise enough to offset the increasing cost.
Mr R has also been receiving SMI to help fund the monthly repayments. This is a loan that 
will need to be repaid with interest when the property is sold. So, the longer that this is relied 
on to fund repayments, the more Mr R will have to repay, thereby eroding any equity in the 
property.
Considering everything, Im not persuaded that it would have been in Mr Rs best interests to 
significantly delay the sale of his property to repay the mortgage and Santander is ultimately 
entitled to be repaid at the end of the term.
Santander has agreed to a fixed rate product which will end in June 2023. This has given    
Mr R more time to assess any other options which may be available to him and, if 
necessary, place the property on the market before the end of the term. I think this is 
reasonable in Mr Rs circumstances. Mr R may wish to consider taking independent financial 
advice about what options may be open to him.
Mr R has also requested that Santander communicates with him by email. I accept that there 
may be occasions where Santander doesnt consider it is safe to share personal or sensitive 
information by email, so this may not always be possible. However, I would expect it to 
accommodate Mr Rs request where possible.
Considering everything, Im not satisfied that Santander has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Michelle Griffiths
Ombudsman