DRN-3362604
The complaint
D, a limited company, complains HSBC UK Bank Plc have been incompetent when opening 
accounts for it leading to losses.
D is represented in this complaint by its directors.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
In August 2019 D arranged an appointment with its business manager to set up new 
facilities. The appointment was booked for 2 September 2019. 
D explained in this meeting it wanted the new facilities set up by 1 October 2019. It says 
HSBCs business manager was aware from this conversation the ability to transfer more 
than £100,000 was important. D also says no forms were provided to its directors for them to 
sign on this first appointment. The following day D emailed HSBCs business manager as 
nothing had been heard. The business manager said hed complete the application on his 
return from leave and asked for one of the directors passports.
The business manager was then on leave from 4 to 16 September 2019  and D contacted 
him again on 17 September asking for an update. Two days later D was told the application 
should be approved next week, and other forms would be sent in the post. After discussion 
forms were emailed, along with a mandate which the business manager asked Ds directors 
to sign.
On 24 September 2019, the accounts D had asked to be set up were done so  with an 
overdraft facility of £10,000. D appealed this as it wanted a higher limit, but this appeal was 
turned down. On 30 September 2019 one of Ds directors was told telephone banking 
access wasnt available. D was also concerned no security device had been received, the 
reason its directors couldnt use telephone banking was due to no signatories on the account 
 and a cheque book for one of the accounts hadnt been provided.
Following this, D experienced a large number of problems, leading to inconvenience. As 
issues came up, D complained to HSBC about them.
HSBC replied to each complaint giving six months for D to refer its complaint to our service. 
The responses issued on 23 and 25 October 2019 were referred too late, but we could 
consider the other responses. Although those responses were referred in time, some of the 
issues covered in those responses were the same issues covered by the October 2019 
responses we couldnt consider.
D referred its complaint to us saying it only wanted us to consider the issues in its letter of 
13 January 2020, and HSBCs response of 11 February 2020. Weve explained to it what 
can and cant be considered under this complaint  as some of the points it raised in their 
letter of 13 January 2020 had been addressed in previous responses. My understanding is D 
has accepted this.
For the issues we could consider, our Investigator felt HSBC had done enough to put 
matters right for D by paying out some compensation.
It didnt agree and asked for the matter to be reviewed so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. I clarified with D the issues to be considered, and Ive now summarised them as 
follows:
The bank applying charges for the account, despite not putting all facilities in place
In branch, a number of issues arose which couldnt be resolved
A cheque was returned unpaid
D has to operate in line with certain regulations, and HSBCs actions meant this 
couldnt be done
D had also claimed £6,931.40 in compensation, so I asked for further information regarding 
this  and will address this at the end of my decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The bank applying charges for the account, despite not putting all facilities in place
Ds concern on this point, as I understand it, is essentially that its had so many problems 
with HSBC setting up the correct account facilities but has continued to charge fees  which 
D doesnt think they should have.
I dont have a lot of detail regarding this specific issue, but generally on a business account 
Id expect fees to be charged for services provided. So, if D was paying in money, 
withdrawing money, doing transfers and so on  then fees may well be charged in line with 
the account terms and conditions. If that is what was happening, then I cant say its unfair 
on the basis thats the agreement D signed up to. If D wishes to provide more information on 
this point, Ill be happy to consider it.
But, just because errors are made, doesnt mean the contractual terms dont apply or that I 
can require HSBC not to apply them. I can award compensation for errors, which I think is 
covered by the following sections.
In branch, a number of issues arose which couldnt be resolved
D has said on 28 October 2019 one of its directors went into branch for an appointment, but 
this hadnt been set up as expected. New telephone banking was set up, but there were a 
number of payments D wanted to make but couldnt  nor could D get the online transfer 
limits changed or replace incorrect cheque books. D have also said it was told the online 
banking would be set up, but this wasnt true due to issues with the banking mandate.
The banking mandate was an issue covered by the response on 25 October 2019. So, I 
cant consider any issues arising directly out of the mandate. But I can consider the impact of 
the wrong advice, along with the frustration of not being able to get everything sorted in that 
one meeting.Here it seems HSBC havent helped D as much as Id expect. Clearly based on the history of 
whats happened D have been trying to get matters sorted quite promptly, and HSBCs 
advisers have let it down. Ive not been provided much information from HSBC on this point, 
and I cant see its been addressed in one of their final responses, so Ill think about this at 
the end.
A cheque was returned unpaid
A cheque D had written for £12,296.08 was returned unpaid. D says this was after receiving 
a missed call from an unknown number. The caller did leave a voicemail, but after returning 
the call promptly the cheque had already been cancelled. My understanding is this process 
wasnt explained to D, and it was also unhappy calls were made to a mobile number, rather 
than the office phone numbers where someone would likely have been able to answer the 
phone.
D said it established the reason the cheque was returned unpaid was due to it only being 
signed by one signatory  when the mandate said two. As Ive explained above, I cant 
consider whos at fault for the mandate. But D queries why many other cheques were paid 
with only one signature, and this one wasnt.
Again, I dont have a lot of information from HSBC regarding this issue as they didnt 
address it when replying to Ds complaint.
Generally, financial businesses such as HSBC will have fraud measures in place to ensure 
the safety of their customers accounts. So, I cant say theyve necessarily done anything 
wrong in the action of ensuring the cheque was legitimate, but how theyve gone about that 
seems to have caused D inconvenience, so again Ill think about this at the end.
D has to operate in line with certain regulations, and HSBCs actions meant this couldnt be 
done
D has explained credits were made into one of its accounts without an explanation from 
HSBC as to what these credits were. D has said its required to be able to prove where funds 
have come from in line with the regulations it has to follow. D has said unexplained and 
unexpected credits require its time to find out where theyve come from.
D has also said not having full functionality on accounts could imply an inability to manage 
its finances properly  which, again, could see them fall foul of the relevant regulations.
I asked D if itd experienced any issues as a result of these issues, and fortunately it said it 
hadnt. I cant award compensation for something that might have happened but didnt. 
Though, I can award compensation for inconvenience, which I now cover in the next section.
Summary
Ds claim for compensation was for £6,931.40. It broke this down as follows:
£3,189.90 had been calculated as costs for Ds time, 
£241.50 for issues related to the mandate being signed properly, and
£3,500 as compensation costs on top
Regarding the £3,189.90 costs for Ds time this is the professional fees its directors would 
charge based on my understanding of how its calculated this. But, our service doesnt 
generally award professional rates  and the reason for that is someones professional 
expertise, qualifications etc, are unlikely to be needed to bring the complaint to our service. Ive not seen anything to suggest Ds professional expertise was needed to bring this 
complaint to our service  so I dont award the claimed costs.
For the £241.50 D have said these are the costs for getting the mandate signed properly. As 
Ive set out, I cant consider any issues regarding the mandate, because this was covered by 
a response brought to our service out of time. So, I cant award these costs as I dont have 
the authority to do so.
For the £3,500 wed usually award such a high figure of compensation in situations where 
mistakes have caused issues to someones health, or severe disruption to someones daily 
life lasting over a year. I also need to factor in D is complaining in its capacity as a limited 
company. A limited company cant experience distress but can experience inconvenience 
which we can award compensation for.
As Ive set out above, I think D has been caused inconvenience as a result of not resolving 
matters in branch, returning the cheque unpaid, and applying credits without explanation. 
And, I cant see that any of these points have been properly considered by HSBC, or that 
theyve awarded compensation for this. I think given these issues have all arisen after 
multiple other issues D has experienced, means the inconvenience is more than it perhaps 
would be if these were the only issues D had. Overall, I think £300 is a fair amount to 
compensate D for these issues.
Responses to my provisional decision
D said it didnt have any further points to make in respect of its complaint  apart from saying 
it thought the £300 compensation provides banks with a charter to provide the poorest, most 
inconveniencing and financially detrimental service to their customers without fear of penalty 
or sanction.
HSBC didnt reply by the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Ds comments, and I appreciate its disappointed with the outcome Ive reached. I 
did want to clarify the £300 Ive awarded is in addition to any previous payments D has had. 
While I dont imagine thatll change Ds thoughts on my compensation award, I did just want 
to clarify that.
Ive seen D is, in effect, saying my award wont stop banks from providing a poor service. I 
do understand Ds frustration  but my award is simply to reflect the losses I can see D has 
suffered  that fall within my remit to consider. I cant penalise or sanction a financial 
business as our service isnt the regulator of the financial services industry. This is the 
Financial Conduct Authority.
Our remit is to look at the individual case, and provide an answer based on the 
circumstances of that case. Here, Ive provided my answer based on the information 
available to me. 
As D didnt provide any more detail to make me think the award Ive made is unfair, and 
HSBC didnt reply, I still think that £300 compensation is a fair way to put matters right. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I partially uphold this complaint, and require HSBC UK 
Bank Plc to pay D £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D and D to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman