DRN-3964188
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) have declined her 
claim for repairs to her television.
What happened
Mrs B held a policy with D&G to cover her television for electrical and mechanical failure 
from September 2018 until September 2022. 
In late 2021 she noticed discolouration and lines across the screen, and the Netflix symbol 
being still visible.  
An engineer visited Mrs B in October, but no work was carried out as his opinion was that 
the fault was due to screen burn which had developed due to usage rather than mechanical 
or electrical failure, and so wasnt covered under the policy. 
Mrs B complained, and D & G issued their final response on 8 June 2022 in which they 
confirmed that the issues identified with the television werent covered under the policy as 
they werent due to mechanical or electrical breakdown. They did apologise to Mrs B for 
customer service failings as they had failed to redirect her when she e-mailed a disused e 
mail address to complain. 
Mrs B was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs Bs complaint and thought D & G had acted 
fairly in declining the claim.   
 
Mrs B disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint, and I will explain why below. 
I have to consider whether D&G have acted fairly and in line with the terms and conditions 
when declining the claim. 
The terms and conditions of the policy say: 
What this policy covers
Breakdown (after the manufacturers guarantee)
If your product suffers a mechanical or electrical breakdown after the end of the 
manufacturers parts and labour guarantee period, we will (at our option) authorise a repair, 
Arrange a replacement or pay the cost of a replacement product 
I note that on the original complaint form, Mrs B says that the fault was pixels being 
discoloured, lines across the TV and the smart programs Netflix is still visible, So, Im 
satisfied that the initial reported issue included an element of screen burn - the Netflix logo 
still being visible. 
Ive seen the note on D&Gs system which confirms that the engineer who visited Mrs B 
determined that the damage was as a result of screen burn and I can also see that the 
engineers report that Mrs B has obtained also cites screen burn as being an issue, saying   
Problem with screen. Screen burn-in sign and red shade comes in some pictures.
So, I think in the light of that, its fair of D&G to find that screen burn is the main problem with 
the television.  
Ive then thought about whether screen burn can be classed as an electrical or mechanical 
failure. 
Mrs B has argued that screen burn is ultimately as a result of an electrical or mechanical 
issue and isnt specifically excluded under the policy. 
D&G have advised that screen burn is caused by having a still image on a screen for a 
prolonged period of time. The image is burnt onto the screen, leaving a permanent imprint 
and cant be removed. All the information that I have found to be available, including 
information on the manufacturers website indicates that screen burn is a problem that 
occurs in the way D&G have described, and in particular in the case of OLED televisions. Im 
therefore satisfied that screen burn is caused by usage rather than an electrical or 
mechanical failure or fault.   
In respect Mrs Bs argument that there is no specific exclusion for screen burn, whilst I agree 
there isnt, there is a general exclusion in the policy which says D&G are not liable for:  
your failure to follow the manufacturers instructions
And I can see at p15 of the instruction manual for Mrs Bs model of television, it gives the 
following advice about how to avoid screen burn: 
 
Displaying a still image for a prolonged period of time may cause image sticking. Avoid 
displaying a fixed image on the TV screen for a long period of time.
And so, for the above reasons, Im satisfied that D&G have acted fairly in declining the claim 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and Domestic & General Insurance Plc dont 
need to do anything further.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman