DRN-4095865
The complaint 
Mr O complains PayrNet Limited (PL), trading as Chippercash, restricted his account, 
closed it, and returned the funds in it to the source accounts. 
What happened
In January 2022, PL blocked Mr Os access to his account following an internal review. It 
asked him to provide information related to the source of funds for several transactions on a 
number of occasions. 
Mr O explained he was a registered trader of crypto currency. The payments into his account 
were from buyers hed arranged to sell crypto to, but for diligence reasons asked them to 
send payments in sterling to his PL account. 
Mr O also says he undertook his own due diligence checks with people he was selling crypto 
to by checking they were verified on the trading platform, had previous transactions and the 
payees name matched with that on the platform.  
A few months later in April 2022, PL informed Mr O that it was returning all the remaining 
funds, around £5,750, in his account to the remitters or source accounts. And that it was 
closing his account. Mr O was unhappy with PLs decision as he felt he had explained and 
provided enough evidence to show hes a verified crypto currency dealer and the funds were 
from crypto asset sales. 
Unhappy about PLs actions, Mr O complained. PL reiterated that it had closed the account 
following its review, and the funds in it were returned to source. Mr O was also given referral 
rights to this service. 
Mr O referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into it, and they 
upheld it. In summary, some of their key findings were: 
- PL has certain statutory, regulatory and legal obligations it must adhere to. To do this 
it has to sometimes review and block a customers account. Its important PL did not 
cause an undue delay with its review and investigations
- Theyve not been able o tell exactly what investigation work was carried out by PL, 
and what questions it asked of Mr O. Because of this they cant say if the time taken 
to complete any investigation was fair 
- PL hasnt evidenced that it was fair to return the balance in the account to the 
senders 
- Whilst PL hasnt provided this service with the information requested of it, Mr O has 
provided evidence which suggests he was the victim of several scams. The evidence 
provided shows Mr O entered into crypto transactions, using a well-known portal in 
good faith and exchanged crypto currency for cash. He did not know both the sender 
of the funds and himself were being scammed 
- So PL should return the funds to Mr O and pay 8% simple interest on them. PL 
should also pay Mr O £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
PL did not agree with what our Investigator said. In short it said it was complying with legal 
and regulatory obligations, and by returning the funds to Mr O, it would be in breach of 
those. It also said it would not pay 8% simple interest on them. 
As PL did not agree, this complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything Mr O and PL have said before 
reaching my decision. 
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information PL has 
provided is information we consider should be kept confidential.
Financial businesses in the UK, like PL, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions 
in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out 
ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means they need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having looked at PLs evidence and reasons for reviewing and restricting Mr Os account, 
Im satisfied it acted in line with the obligations imposed upon it.
PL hasnt provided this service with all the information weve asked it to which relate to its 
investigation. So Im not able to say whether it caused undue delay with its review. 
PL decided in April 2022, when concluding its review, to return the funds Mr O held back to 
the remitting accounts. When a business does this, we expect it to be able to demonstrate 
that it carried out an investigation which shows its customer wasnt acting in good faith, and 
they were not entitled to those funds. 
PL hasnt given us enough information to determine that its investigation justifies its action to 
return the funds. I dont undervalue the strength of its concerns here, and I can understand 
why this action would be a strong consideration. 
Our Investigator asked Mr O to show us evidence related to his assertion that he was acting 
in good faith and the payments which caused concern were legitimate payments for crypto 
transaction hed arranged on a trading platform. Mr O has shown that the transactions he was asked about were legitimate transactions by providing screenshots of the trading 
platform for pretty much each transaction. These also matched with the trading platforms 
technical information for Mr Os trades. 
Mr Os explanation that he had his own diligence checks before trading with anyone to 
mitigate against fraud or scams also aligns with the evidence Ive seen. Mr O has also 
explained how he used this money by dispersing it into investment accounts and buying a 
property. Hes also shown compelling evidence this was the case. 
So, based on the information Mr O has sent this service, Im persuaded he was acting in 
good faith, and legitimately carried out the transaction he says he did that led to payments 
being made into his account and that PL had concerns about. 
Given I dont know the extent of PLs investigation and based on the evidence Ive seen from 
Mr O, Im not persuaded PL should have returned the funds to source. Mr Os trading 
evidence also shows he sold crypto assets to these individuals, so hes most likely lost out 
here. 
Ive also looked at Chippercashs terms and conditions of the account.  
Section 9.2 says that: 
In addition to the actions set out above in clause 9.1, we reserve the right to also take any 
of the following actions following a review: 
9.2.1 hold funds subject to a Payment Transaction;
9.2.2 apply funds to a negative E-Wallet balance or use funds to offset a loss 
incurred by us;
9.2.3 suspend or terminate your Account;
9.2.4 seize funds to comply with a court order, warrant, and / or other legal process; 
and / or
9.2.5 reverse a Payment Transaction (i.e. return funds to the payers E-Wallet)
And clause 9.4 says: We also reserve the right to freeze and block your Account if we deem 
any funds to have been acquired illegitimately or where you are unable to provide details of 
the original source of the funds from your Nominated Account to your E-Wallet
PLs terms say it reserves the right to return funds to source if it deems they have been 
acquired illegitimately or where its customer isnt able to provide details of the original 
source.  But as Ive said earlier, PL hasnt shown us all the information from its investigation 
to show Mr O wasnt entitled to these funds or more specifically, that he wasnt acting in 
good faith when selling his crypto assets. And from what Ive seen from Mr O, he was most 
likely acting legitimately and in good faith. 
So after weighing this all up, Im persuaded PL should return the funds of around £5,750 to 
Mr O. As he has been deprived of these funds, and in line with this services approach, PL 
should pay Mr O 8% simple interest on the funds from when it concluded its investigation in 
April 2022 until settlement. 
Mr O has said he isnt complaining about the account closure, but later was less clear about 
this. PL is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But before 
PL closes an account, it must do so in a way which complies with the terms and conditions 
of the account. Im satisfied, given its concerns, PL acted fairly and in line with its terms 
when closing Mr Os account in the way it has. 
Lastly, Mr O has put significant effort into providing information to show his entitlement to the 
payments hes been asked about. And Im satisfied his funds being returned by PL in this 
way would have caused him some distress. So I think £150 is fair compensation. 
Putting things right
To put things right, PayrNet Limited must: 
- Return the funds it held in Mr Os account to him, which I understand is £5,750.18
- Pay 8% simple interest on these funds from when the review concluded in April 2022 
up until settlement*
- Pay Mr O £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered as a 
result of what PL did wrong 
* If PL considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, 
it should tell Mr O how much its taken off. It should also give Mr O a tax deduction certificate if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. PayrNet Limited must now put things right as 
directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman