DRN-2746695
The complaint
Mrs J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) failed to carry out an instruction to transfer 
her funds into a stocks and shares Individual Savings Account (ISA).
What happened
Mrs J started a transfer from her cash ISA to her HSBC stocks and shares ISA on                
5 May 2020 by completing transfer and authority forms. Mrs J entered her stocks and shares 
ISA number on both forms.
HSBC initiated the transfer and moved the funds into the uninvested cash account (UCA) 
held within Mrs Js ISA.
Mrs J later logged into her account and was unhappy to find her funds were in her UCA. She 
felt her instructions had been clear that she wanted the amount moved to her stocks and 
shares ISA and invested. She felt it was obvious where she wanted the funds to be invested 
because shed previously only ever invested in one fund. Mrs J complained as she felt shed 
suffered a loss as a result of this delay.
HSBC disagreed, they felt the forms were clear that if she transferred cash it would go to her 
UCA and remain there until a buy order was placed. Mrs J remained unhappy and referred 
her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Js complaint. They felt HSBCs forms were clear about 
what would happen. They also felt the form provided prominent enough warning that further 
action would be required by Mrs J to invest her funds. They explained shed always have 
needed to specify what fund she wanted to purchase for any money to be invested. 
Mrs J didnt agree. She accepted the forms made her fully aware the funds would initially be 
placed into a UCA but felt shed provided HSBC with clear instructions to follow afterwards. 
By quoting her stocks and share account number she felt shed provided instruction to invest 
in the fund shed previously purchased. Mrs J felt the transfer forms were ambiguous and not 
fit for purpose. This was because they didnt allow her to specify a trade and included 
options she wasnt able to use. 
Mrs J highlighted that HSBC had also failed to notify her of completion of the transfer. She 
asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs J doesnt dispute that the transfer forms completed were clear that the funds would be 
initially placed in the UCA. I agree, as the form states:
All cash transfers will be credited to your ISA Uninvested Cash Account, and will 
be available for you to invest once the transfer is completed.
But Mrs J feels she provided enough detail to constitute an instruction for HSBC. So, Ive 
considered whether HSBC shouldve done more based on the information submitted and 
whether the forms were fit for purpose. Ive also considered whether HSBC shouldve done 
more to notify Mrs J that her transfer was complete.
Transfer forms
Mrs J feels the forms HSBC provided werent fit for purpose because they held options she 
couldnt select. Ive thought about this carefully, and I cant agree. I say this because the 
forms werent just designed to be used for Mrs J or for cash ISA transfers. The forms 
contained other options because they needed to fulfil different purposes for different 
customers and accounts. As they contained a prominent enough warning that cash ISAs 
would be transferred to a UCA, I dont feel the forms were misleading for Mrs Js specific 
use.
I appreciate there was no dedicated part of the forms where Mrs J could include any 
investment instruction. But I think this shouldve reasonably alerted Mrs J to the fact there 
would be further steps needed to complete her investment once the transfer was complete. 
Mrs J feels this missing option is precisely the reason the forms were not fit for purpose, but 
HSBC is under no obligation to ensure their transfer process includes the option to make a 
purchase. Their terms are clear on how customers can make an investment once a transfer 
is complete:
41.3 Cash received from your previous ISA provider will be transferred into your 
Uninvested Cash Account within your ISA Account. You can then use this 
amount to purchase Fund Shares in accordance with these Terms.
This notice combined with the lack of a dedicated purchase section on the forms shouldve 
reasonably alerted Mrs J to the fact further steps would be required. I cant agree the forms 
provided were unsuitable for Mrs Js needs or that they werent fit for the purpose of her 
transfer.
Purchase instruction
Mrs J is unhappy that her funds werent automatically invested in the same fund shed 
previously purchased. But I dont think itd be reasonable for HSBC to assume this same 
fund would be Mrs Js choice of investment again without direct instruction from her. 
As Mrs Js account was self-managed, Id only expect HSBC to take further action if Mrs J 
submitted a specific trade. If Mrs J had communicated a purchase instruction to HSBC, Id 
have expected HSBC to at least contact Mrs J to query this. Ive thought carefully about 
whether the information Mrs J provided should be treated as an instruction.
Mrs J feels that as she inputted her stocks and shares ISA number on both the transfer and 
authority form HSBC shouldve completed a trade on her behalf. But Im not persuaded that 
quoting this number alone constitutes an instruction to purchase a specific fund. And I dont 
think this detail was enough to expect HSBC to take any further action. 
Theres no requirement for customers to instantly invest funds held within a stocks and 
shares ISA. I dont think its fair to expect HSBC to have assumed this quoted account 
number alone meant Mrs J wished to make a purchase in that moment.Again, there was no dedicated part of the form to include an instruction as this was not part 
of HSBCs usual process. Its therefore understandable Mrs J didnt inform HSBC of any 
purchase orders in her transfer form. But Ive seen nothing to show she made any other 
attempt to communicate with HSBC about the trades she wanted to make. So, I wouldnt 
expect HSBC to have done any more.
Notification
HSBC failed to notify Mrs J that her transfer was complete. And I agree it wouldve been 
good service on HSBCs part to inform Mrs J that her funds were ready to invest. This lack of 
notification couldve potentially had a real impact on her ability to trade in a timely manner. 
But when investigating a complaint, I must consider the impact of what happened instead of 
what couldve happened. 
Mrs J logged into her ISA account on the same day that her transfer was completed. Shes 
explained that when she saw the funds in her UCA she assumed they were pending further 
action by HSBC. But as explained, I think HSBC had been clear the funds would only leave 
the UCA if Mrs J submitted a trade and Im not persuaded shed done so at any earlier point.
 
Whilst unfortunate, I dont think the lack of notification had any significant impact, as Mrs J 
already had enough information when she logged into her account that day to be reasonably 
aware that the funds were now available to trade.
HSBCs transfer forms and process were clearly outlined to Mrs J at the outset, and Im not 
convinced that a specific purchase instruction was made. So, I feel HSBC acted fairly when 
leaving Mrs Js funds in her UCA. As I think HSBC acted reasonably, I wont be 
recommending they do any more.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman