DRN-2515731
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about U K Insurance Limiteds handling of their motor 
insurance policy, particularly its decision to reduce the no claims discount (NCD) from nine 
years to three years.
Mr B is a named driver on Mrs Bs policy. Mr B has taken the lead in dealing with this 
complaint so, for ease, where I refer to his comments below those should be read as being 
on behalf of both himself and Mrs B.  
What happened
In May 2018 Mrs B made a claim on her policy and, while UKIs garage was repairing her 
car, it loaned her a courtesy car, which Mr B signed for. When the garage came to take the 
courtesy car back, in June 2018, it noted some minor damage to the car which hadn't been 
there before. It offered Mr B the option of paying it £300 for the damage but Mr B objected to 
that.
Some months later the garage made a successful claim against Mrs Bs policy for the 
damage to the courtesy car. And when Mrs Bs policy was due to renew, UKI reduced her 
NCD from nine years to three. Mr and Mrs B didn't think that was fair and brought their 
complaints about UKIs service to us. We have dealt with Mr and Mrs Bs complaints under 
two separate reference numbers. Under this reference, our investigator thought that it was 
reasonable for UKI to reduce the NCD as it did. So she didn't think UKI needed to take any 
further action. Mr B didn't agree so the complaint's been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
As Ive said above weve dealt with Mr and Mrs Bs complaints under two separate reference 
numbers. I've issued another decision concerning the points of complaint raised under the 
other reference number. So, in this decision I don't intend to make any findings on matters 
I've dealt with in my other decision. 
Mrs Bs policy says that where shed had two claims in a year her NCD will be stepped back 
from nine years to three. There were two claims against her policy in the policy year which 
ran from 2018 to 2019. The first was the incident in May 2018 leading to UKIs garage giving 
Mrs B a courtesy car. The second was the incident which caused damage to the courtesy 
car around a month later. So, as UKI had received and paid out on two separate claims I 
think it was reasonable for it to reduce Mrs Bs NCD as set out in her policy. And that meant 
that the NCD was stepped-back from nine years to three.
I'm aware Mr B was unhappy with UKIs replies to his enquiries about the matter.  I've seen 
that he first wrote to UKI in March 2018 about it. UKI has no record of receiving that letter at 
that time. Mr B wrote to it again in April 2019 copying his earlier letter. UKI did receive that 
and around two weeks later replied. It explained that it had received two claims against 
Mrs Bs policy in the 2018/19 policy year (and another claim a year earlier) and so had 
reduced Mrs Bs NCD. I think that decision was reasonable, although I note Mr B thought 
UKIs explanation could have been clearer. But as I think UKI stepped-back Mrs Bs NCD 
entitlement appropriately, I don't intend to instruct it to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman