DRN-2478779
The complaint
Mr G complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Limited (HL) gave him 
inadequate advice when they recommended he take a partial transfer of his benefits from his 
employers pension scheme. He says that this led to a significant financial loss.
What happened
Mr G had built up benefits in a defined benefit occupational pension scheme which were 
greater than the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) compensation cap. The scheme sponsor 
was in financial difficulties. Mr G knew that if the scheme were to enter the PPF, his benefits 
would reduce significantly. So he arranged for a cash equivalent transfer value quotation 
(CETV) to be produced. And consulted a financial adviser at HL to provide the statutory 
financial advice he needed before he could carry out the transfer. Mr G said his main 
objective was to transfer out of the scheme to protect himself from the financial loss hed 
suffer if the scheme were to enter the PPF.
Mr G had an existing relationship with HL through another part of the business. He 
approached them with the intention of transferring the value of his pension into funds under 
that part of the businesss management.
Mr G spoke to his adviser at HL on 15 July 2019 about the intended transfer. He said his 
main concern was the potential reduction to the value of his benefits if the schemes sponsor 
went insolvent and the scheme were to enter the PPF. It was noted that Mr G was a little 
over a year away from his normal retirement age. At that point he would qualify to be 
unaffected by the PPF compensation cap. The HL adviser explained that transfers out of a 
defined benefit scheme would be recommended as unsuitable unless it could be proven to 
be in the persons best interest. Mr G said he was aware of the potential Lifetime Allowance 
(LTA) issues he faced and confirmed that he had a protected LTA of £1.25M.
Mr G had a further call with his HL adviser on 6 August 2019. In this call, his attitude to risk 
and personal circumstances were discussed. Mr G said that his likely retirement age was 65. 
But that this was flexible as he could afford to retire in September 2020. He also received an 
email the same day from HL advising him to research an alternative pension provider which 
could act as the receiving scheme if HL didnt accept the transfer. Mr G said he followed this 
advice.
On 20 August 2019, HL told Mr G about the option of a partial transfer. Mr G hadnt been 
aware of this option. He said it hadnt been mentioned in the transfer documents sent by the 
scheme. 
On 27 August 2019, HL carried out a pension transfer analysis for both partial and full 
transfers. The analysis was discussed with Mr G on 29 August 2019. HL said that Mr G 
preferred the partial transfer option. 
On 3 September 2019, HL received confirmation from the schemes administrator that partial 
transfers were permitted. 
HLs adviser produced a report dated 13 September 2019. This recommended that Mr G 
transferred his pre-1997 benefits out of the scheme. But that he left his post-1997 benefits 
and additional voluntary contributions (AVCs) in the scheme. After the partial transfer, the 
remaining pension within the scheme would fall under the PPF compensation cap.
Mr G accepted this recommendation. A partial transfer request was sent to the scheme. The 
Trustees of the scheme received the request on 22 September 2019. The schemes sponsor 
became insolvent on 23 September 2019 and the scheme entered the PPF assessment 
period.
Mr G said that the schemes Trustees wrote to him to tell him they couldnt proceed with his 
request. This was due to it being for a partial transfer, which was a non-statutory request that 
didnt comply with the requirements of Section 95 of the Pensions Act 1993. He also said 
that the Trustees had confirmed that his request had been received in time and that had it 
been for a full transfer they wouldve proceeded with the request.
Unhappy, Mr G complained to HL in March 2020. He felt that HLs advice had been 
inadequate when theyd instigated a partial transfer - which hadnt been part of his original 
remit  without at any stage warning him about its non-statutory nature. He said that if hed 
been made aware of this hed have requested a full transfer, as hed originally intended. Mr 
G felt hed not been made aware of the risk of the partial transfer not being accepted by the 
Trustees. He said that HLs adviser shouldve been aware the advice wasnt in line with 
Section 95 of the Pensions Act 1993.
HL issued their final response to Mr Gs complaint in April 2020. They acknowledged that the 
partial transfer hadnt succeeded because the scheme had entered the PPF assessment 
period. But they didnt uphold the complaint. They said the partial transfer was suitable. And 
that Mr G had been legally required to get independent financial advice before transferring 
out due to the size of the CETV. HL also said that the typical assumption is that any transfer 
out of a defined benefit scheme is unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer was in the individuals best interests. HL said that 
their adviser was fully aware of Mr Gs concerns about the sponsors financial situation. But 
that their transfer value analyses showed that the full CETV was nowhere near enough to 
purchase an equivalent annuity to replace the defined benefit pension lost. They said that 
their analysis showed that the advice for a partial transfer was suitable as it meant the 
retained pension fell within the PPF compensation cap and reduced the potential loss of 
value. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr G brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold it. She felt that the advice hed received had been suitable. She said that as HL 
had received confirmation that a partial transfer was allowed, she couldnt say theyd done 
anything wrong by recommending the partial transfer.
Mr G didnt agree with our investigator. He felt that the advice had been inadequate. He said 
that important facts had been missed out. He acknowledged that the scheme administrator 
had told HLs adviser that a partial transfer was permitted. But said that that HLs advisers 
failure to investigate the implications of a partial transfer in the event of a sponsoring 
company failure had led to a financial loss. Mr G said that if hed been made aware that a 
partial transfer didnt represent a statutory transfer he wouldve tried to take a full transfer. 
And that this wouldve been accepted by the schemes Trustees.
Our investigator considered Mr Gs points. But they didnt change her view. She didnt feel 
that HLs adviser had any reason to question what he was told by the trustees. So she didnt 
consider it would be fair to hold the adviser at fault for giving unsuitable advice.As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I acknowledge that this will be extremely 
disappointing for Mr G. Ill explain how I came to my decision.
Should Mr Gs adviser have known about the potential impact of the non-statutory nature of 
a partial transfer?
Mr G told this service that the information he wasnt given about the non-statutory nature of 
partial transfers was available from a simple review of the Pension Regulators website. He 
shared this information from that source, part of which said: In general, the statutory right to 
transfer only applies when a member transfers the whole of each category of benefits  it is 
not generally possible to transfer only part of a category under the legislation. Mr G said that 
he would expect: a professional financial adviser providing advice on the transfer of a final 
salary pension to be aware of this information. Because HLs adviser didnt inform Mr G of 
the non-statutory nature of a partial transfer, Mr G felt that he was negligent in his advice.
HLs adviser agreed that he: did not know that a partial transfer request would not be 
permitted once a scheme has entered PPF assessment. But that he had received 
confirmation from the schemes administrator that partial transfers were possible. This 
confirmation said: The guidance from the Plan actuary is that partial transfers can be made 
in tranches of AVCs, Pre 97 including any GMP or post 97. The fact that the pre 97 is a 
transfer-in benefit is not relevant. I therefore have confirmed with the Plan actuary that the 
pre 97 benefit can be transferred in isolation, leaving the Post 97 and AVCs if required. He 
also said that after the partial transfer request was turned down: I had also raised the query 
directly with the PPF to see if there were any prior cases we could rely on to provide 
confirmation that the partial transfer should be allowed but their guidance to [name of 
pension scheme] appears to have been that there is no clear guidance/prior case law of this 
nature.
Mr G said that when the scheme entered the PPF assessment period on 23 September 
2019: all discretion was removed from the trustee and they became legally bound to only 
accept statutory transfers. A partial transfer was at the trustees discretion prior to that date 
and while they could have withdrawn that discretion they stated that they would not.
From what Ive seen, the Trustees of Mr Gs scheme dont feel that they have the discretion 
to make partial transfers whilst the scheme remains in a PPF assessment period. Both Mr G 
and HLs adviser have appealed to the Trustees to challenge their interpretation of whether 
they are permitted to make the transfer. But theyve taken the strict legal interpretation of the 
legislation which means they cant change their view. 
I consider that the advice wasnt faulty at the time it was given, as partial transfers were 
permitted. But the speed of entry into the PPF assessment period was what caused the 
problem. And the timing of that couldnt have been foreseen.
The evidence shows that the inability of the Trustees to exercise their discretion to allow a 
non-statutory transfer might be an unusual situation, which the Trustees had to get legal 
advice on. So its apparent that the Trustees werent aware of the potential impact of the 
non-statutory nature of a partial transfer either. And this explains why their administrator 
didnt note this constraint in their 3 September 2019 email to HLs adviser, which confirmed that the Trustees would allow a partial transfer from the scheme. 
Ive carefully considered what both Mr G and HL have said on this issue. While I 
acknowledge that in an ideal situation HLs adviser wouldve known that partial transfers 
were non-statutory, and informed Mr G about that, Im not persuaded that he shouldve 
known, or realised that he needed to investigate further. Or that he should have foreseen 
what could potentially happen. It took legal advice before the schemes Trustees even knew 
the schemes position on partial transfers in a PPF assessment period. I consider that its 
extremely unlikely HLs adviser had seen a situation like this before. And given the 
confirmation hed received from the schemes actuary that it was able to accept partial 
transfers, I dont consider that HLs adviser was negligent in not taking any further action to 
check that a partial transfer may be constrained. So I dont agree with Mr G that HLs adviser 
did anything wrong here.
Mr G said that if hed been shown the relevant information about the non-statutory nature the 
situation wouldve been very different. As Im already satisfied that HLs adviser didnt do 
anything wrong given the information he had about the nature of a partial transfer, I dont 
consider that this aspect of the complaint should be upheld. However, I have also 
considered whether the advice HL gave Mr G was appropriate.
Was HLs advice suitable?
Mr Gs main rationale for looking into transferring his pension benefits from the scheme was 
the risk of it going into the PPF. He said: I was initially unaware of the possibility of a partial 
transfer, it was something that [HLs adviser] suggested, investigated and then sold to me, at 
no stage was any potential risk mentioned. Mr G also said: When I received my transfer 
valuation  I intended to make a full transfer, which I believed to be the only option, and 
would have done so had the risk posed by the non-statutory nature of a partial transfer ever 
been mentioned. And he said hed made it clear to HL that he intended to transfer out of the 
scheme regardless of the advice that they provided. 
HLs adviser said: we will highlight and draw attention to a clients concerns about an 
employers solvency. However, we make it explicitly clear that we cannot rely on that as a 
basis for recommendation, as we cannot know what will happen. We therefore have to base 
our advice on our standard criteria for DB transfer recommendations, albeit making sure 
clients understand how PPF compensation works etc. He also said that it hadnt been 
possible for him to recommend a transfer of the entire pension based on the knowledge 
available at the time of producing the recommendation. This was for a number of reasons 
including:
- value for money problems exposed by the full transfer value analysis. 
- large potential LTA charges.
- Mr Gs financial capacity
HLs adviser also said: it appeared at the time of discussion that the negotiations to save 
the company would be likely to go on for much longer.
Ive reviewed all of the reports produced by HL for Mr G. From the evidence presented to 
me, I consider that HLs adviser considered alternative ways of meeting his objectives  
including considering partial transfers - as recommended by the Regulator in certain 
situations. HLs adviser confirmed that a partial transfer was possible. And it looked to be a 
good option for Mr G, as it balanced risk and kept the LTA charge relatively low for a 
transfer. The risk of the scheme going into the PPF assessment period was considered. But from what Ive seen, neither Mr G nor HLs adviser expected that to happen imminently. 
I say this because I understand that Mr G went on holiday in the period after the report 
recommending the partial transfer was issued. And it took him 9 days after that report to 
submit his transfer paperwork to the scheme. So Im satisfied that Mr G wasnt expecting the 
scheme to enter PPF assessment in September 2019. I consider that he was more focussed 
on submitting the paperwork before the CETV expired. 
I do acknowledge that Mr G had taken steps to ensure he had an alternative place for the 
transfer if HL werent willing to recommend it. So although HLs report makes it clear why 
they couldnt have recommended a transfer of the whole pension, Mr G could in theory have 
still requested a full transfer to another provider against HLs advice. And Mr G said he 
wouldve gone ahead with the full transfer if hed not been advised to do a partial transfer. 
But from what Ive seen, HLs assessment took into consideration Mr Gs circumstances. It 
considered the risk of the scheme going into the PPF. And recommended that a partial 
transfer represented the most suitable course of action to meet his needs and objectives, 
whilst also not relinquishing any more of the valuable benefit guarantees associated with the 
scheme than was necessary. HL also advised Mr G to arrange for an alternative provider to 
be available to accept his transfer in the event that they couldnt recommend it. At the time of 
the advice, Mr G accepted HLs recommendations. So Im satisfied that HLs advice was 
suitable.
Im sorry that Mr G considers that he has suffered a large financial loss due to his scheme 
entering the PPF assessment period when it did. As a general observation, I cant be sure 
that he has suffered a loss in relation to the failed transfer. I say this because although 
theres a loss on the amount which Mr G couldve transferred out, he was advised not to 
transfer out on the basis of the CETV being insufficient to replace the value of the 
relinquished scheme benefits. The pension transfer analysis suggests that the full CETV 
only covered around 59% of the scheme benefits (£1,771K divided by £2,990K). So its 
possible that the PPF benefits  even with the compensation cap applied  may still 
represent similar overall value when compared with the full CETV. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I cant hold HL responsible for any financial loss here. So Im 
not going to ask them to do anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman