DRN-3921840
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is that Assurant General Insurance Limited provided a poor service 
because its online portal isnt working for him.
What happened
Mr M complained to Assurant because of a problem with its website, resulting in him being 
unable to manage his policy online. Assurant explained to Mr M that it had been 
experiencing challenges when trying to resolve the problem and offered Mr M the option of 
contacting it via email or phone. Assurant also offered Mr M £25 compensation.
Mr M remains unhappy. He says the option of using email isnt secure and that calling the 
insurer will result in call charges. After Mr M referred his complaint to this service, one of our 
investigators decided that Assurant had acted fairly. 
Mr M didnt agree  he says the service hes paying for isnt being provided. So the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final say.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I share the opinion that Assurant has acted fairly. Ill explain why.
Its not for me to reach a finding on how Assurant conducts its business or how it provides its 
services to its customers. Thats something only Assurant can decide  my powers only 
allow me to reach a finding on whether Assurant has acted fairly in the way it has provided 
its services to Mr M.
The online portal seems to be a crucial part of Assurants service. So I would expect the 
insurer to make sure that Mr M is reasonably able to use this facility, or make a provision so 
that he could manage his policy in other ways. And when Mr M raised the problem, my 
expectation of Assurant wouldve been to take steps to resolve the issue.
It seems to me that Assurant has indeed met this expectation as it has taken steps to 
resolve the problem. The insurer says it is experiencing IT challenges, so the problem has 
taken longer to resolve. Assurant says Mr M can manage his policy via email or phone. I 
havent seen anything in Mr Ms circumstances to persuade me that it would be 
unreasonable for him to do so.
Mr M is concerned that using email wouldnt be secure and that hed incur charges to call the 
insurer. As our investigator pointed out, there are steps both parties can take to ensure 
Mr Ms information is kept secure. So Im satisfied that this is an appropriate option. 
Looking at the contact number for Assurant, I cant say for certain that Mr M wont incur any 
charges, as it is dependent on the telephone service he is using and whether inclusive 
minutes are used. Although there remains the possibility that he may have to pay some 
costs to call Assurant, Im not persuaded that this is a good enough reason to conclude that 
Assurants suggestion to use the phone is unreasonable. Not all businesses have a 
freephone number, nor is this a requirement. So I cant fairly say that Assurant did 
something wrong because of this.
Mr M wanted to use the online portal to input his mobile device details. But Assurant 
confirms that registering a device isnt necessary. So Mr M still has access to the policy 
benefits that hes paying a premium for. So I dont agree that Assurant is failing to provide 
the service Mr M is paying for. 
In my opinion, Assurants compensation offer of £25 is fair. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that the level of impact on Mr M was to a degree that would warrant additional 
compensation. 
For these reasons, Ive decided that Assurant has acted fairly and I wont be asking it to 
carry out any further action.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman