DRN-4113620
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about Legal and General Assurance Society Limited, referred to as 
Legal and General or the business. 
In short, they say the business cancelled their life cover policy (the policy) by mistake, and 
despite upholding the complaint, hasnt provided a fair and reasonable resolution to the 
problem.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs S say they called up the business to update their records following a re-
mortgage. They were initially told that the business doesnt have a record of the policy. In 
due course it came to light that the policy was cancelled in error. 
The business upheld the complaint. It explained that in 2018 their policy had been cancelled 
in error, because it had the same policy number as a customer who wanted to cancel their 
(the customers) policy. Thats why when Mr and Mrs S called the business in May 2021, it 
couldnt find the policy. 
It agreed to reinstate the policy (without a new declaration of health (DOH)) contingent upon 
Mr and Mrs S paying the missed premiums (in the sum of around £4,697 at the time) to bring 
the policy up to date  its happy to arrange a payment plan over 12-24 months in order to 
make them pay the missed premiums. It made clear that it doesnt usually do this if 
premiums havent been paid for over three months. Alternatively, Mr and Mrs S could apply 
for a new policy. 
The business also made clear that in the event of a valid claim, it wouldve paid out the sum 
assured despite there not being a policy in place at the time, due to its error. In the 
circumstances it also offered Mr and Mrs S £350 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.  
Unhappy with the businesss response, Mr and Mrs S referred the complaint to our service. 
Theyre unhappy that they still dont have life cover and arent in a position to pay the missed 
premiums. Given Mr Ss health, they just want their old policy to be reinstated.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought the offer by the business was 
broadly fair and reasonable. In summary, she said:
Its fair that the business is willing to reinstate the policy, without a DOH, providing 
the missed premiums are paid, via a payment plan. 
If Mr and Mrs S dont wish to pay missed premiums, they can apply for a new policy 
which meets their needs. It might be worth discussing the idea with the business. 
Given our approach to redress, its not unfair to ask Mr and Mrs S to pay the 
premiums that they wouldve paid anyway, had the policy not been cancelled in error.
The £350 compensation offered by the business is broadly fair and reasonable. In 
the circumstances it reflects the distress and inconvenience caused.   
Theres been much correspondence between Mr and Mrs S, the business, and the 
investigator regarding the redress offered by the business. 
They remain unhappy with the options proposed, and still very concerned that they remain 
without cover whilst this matter is being dealt with.  
They believe the repayment of the missed premiums should be over the lifetime of the policy 
 not 12-24 months  and certainly not through some debt recovery scheme. The increased 
premiums (current premium with missed premiums) are simply unaffordable. Obtaining a 
new policy with the business also isnt a viable option  despite doing everything they could, 
the business still refused to cover Mr S. 
They maintain that the business made the error but offered an unworkable solution, along 
with compensation that doesnt cover the distress and inconvenience caused.  
The investigator, having considered the additional points and liaised with the parties, in brief 
made the following points:
Its not our role to negotiate premiums, thats something that Mr and Mrs S will have 
to do themselves, going forward. But the payments must be fair and affordable. 
The repayment of missed premiums  over 12-24 months  is unaffordable, 
especially with the cost-of-living crises. The business should really give them longer 
 based on affordability  as there are four years of premiums to be paid. 
Mr and Mrs S now no longer wish to reinstate the policy.  
Whilst theyd would like £2,500 compensation, as full and final settlement of this 
complaint, the investigator doesnt think its fair. 
The business should increase the compensation to £500. 
The business disagreed with the investigators latest view and maintains that its offer of 
redress is broadly fair and reasonable. It doesnt agree with paying £500 compensation. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, subject to any further submissions, provisionally Im going to uphold this 
complaint.
Theres no dispute that the business cancelled Mr and Mrs Ss policy in error. I understand 
that checks that shouldve been in place to prevent the error happening in the first place 
werent followed. Because the business upheld the complaint, the key issue for me is to 
consider is redress, and whether (or not) its fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded that the redress offered by 
the business is reasonable. In the circumstances, and on balance, I think the business 
should do the following:
1. Give Mr and Mrs S the opportunity to reinstate the policy, without DOH, which I 
understand the business has already offered to do.  
a. In the circumstances, and on balance, I think the business should also offer a 
25% discount on the (missed) premiums owed. b. Mr and Mrs S should be given at least 36 months, to pay the missed 
premiums. 
2. The business should also pay Mr and Mrs S £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Im aware that it was the business that cancelled the policy and did so by mistake. So, it was 
through no fault of their own that Mr and Mrs S were left (and still are left) without life cover. 
The onus is therefore on the business to put things right, and to put Mr and Mrs S in the 
position (or as close to the position) they would have been in, but for the error. 
In this instance, it means reinstating the policy, or at least giving Mr and Mrs S the 
opportunity to reinstate the policy. But if they dont want to reinstate the policy thats a matter 
for them  they may wish to obtain independent financial advice before deciding what to do.   
I appreciate the business maintains that in the event of a valid claim (after the policy was 
cancelled) it still wouldve honoured the claim and paid the sum assured. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, I dont think Mr and Mrs S should be liable to pay the 
entirety of the missed premiums  I dont think its fair. Thats why Ive suggested a 25% 
discount should they wish to reinstate the policy, which I think is arguably more manageable. 
I do so on the basis that it was the businesss fault at the outset, but also take into account 
that Mr and Mrs S ought reasonably to have done more to realise the premiums werent 
being paid.  
Despite what they say, Mr and Mrs S will be aware that they couldnt have got this cover for 
free and wouldve had to pay in any event had the mistake not occurred. Subject to the 
above comments I have made, in the circumstances I dont think the business is wrong to 
require them to pay for the missed premiums before reinstating the policy. I also cant blame 
it for not choosing to waive the premiums.
In the circumstances Mr and Mrs S should have been aware shortly after the policy was 
cancelled that the payments werent going out. Judging by what they now need to pay to 
reinstate the policy, its evidently not an insignificant amount. Whilst its possible they didnt 
notice the premiums not going out, I think they ought reasonably to have done so. 
Based on the affordability of the policy, I understand that Mr and Mrs S have said theyre not 
interested in reinstating the policy  in other words, its too expensive paying the current and 
missed premiums going forward. Given my decision, its possible that they may change their 
minds, as they still have time to pay the lower amount  but its not clear. Its a matter for 
them whether or not they want the plan back. 
Im mindful that getting a new policy in this instance isnt a viable option, so its not 
something Im going to consider any further. 
In any case, I think the business should pay Mr and Mrs S £500 compensation for the 
substantial distress and inconvenience caused. 
Putting things right
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited should do the following:
1. Give Mr and Mrs S the opportunity to reinstate their policy, without DOH.
a. It should also discount the outstanding premiums owed by Mr and Mrs S by 
25%. b. Mr and Mrs S should be given at least 36 months, if not longer, to pay the 
missed premiums. 
2. The business should also pay Mr and Mrs S £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, subject to any further submissions, provisionally Im going to 
uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman