DRN-3317518
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Moneyology Limited verbally misrepresented that Mr Gs 
pension provider didnt provide enhanced annuities with a ten-year guarantee, and this 
mayve caused them a financial loss. 
What happened
Mr P had a pension policy with Provider P that had a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR). 
In early 2017 Mr and Mrs G sought advice from Moneyology Limited about options for taking 
Mr Gs pension pot.
After discussion and investigation, Moneyology recommended that Mr G take out a joint life 
level annuity with a ten-year guarantee with his current provider, after taking his maximum 
tax-free cash of 25%. As both Mr and Mrs G had some health issues, Moneyology had 
looked into enhanced annuities with a number of other providers. But it ultimately 
recommended Mr G take out the Provider P annuity, as the enhanced annuity rates with 
other providers were not as good as the GAR with Provider P.  Mr G accepted the 
recommendation and took out the annuity.
In 2019 Provider P wrote to Mr G indicating it had been asked by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (the FCA) to review certain non-advised annuities that had been set up since July 
2008. The letter indicated that the FCA had published its review of non-advised sales 
practices in 2016. The FCA had wanted to establish whether customers were provided with 
sufficient information about enhanced annuities. Provider P said that having reviewed the 
annuity sale Mr G was made aware of the options available before purchasing the annuity so 
it would be closing the review. 
Mr G says that this correspondence from Provider P caused him to consider events in 
relation to him taking out the annuity. 
In February 2020 Mr G wrote to Moneyology. Mr G indicated that his recollection was that 
when he asked the Moneyology adviser about an enhanced annuity with Provider P, the 
adviser indicated that Provider P would not provide it with the guarantees. Mr G said he 
understood this to mean the ten-year guarantees. Mr G then said that after speaking to 
Provider P in relation to its letter about its review of the sale of non-advised annuities, he 
was told that this wasnt the case. Mr G asked Moneyology to explain what he saw as its 
apparent misrepresentation.
 
Moneyology treated this as a complaint and in late June 2020 it responded. It characterised 
the complaint as being that Mr Gs health wasnt considered in the advice given to him and 
that he may be entitled to further enhancement. Moneyology didnt uphold the complaint. It 
said it had used industry recognised software to ensure whether an enhanced calculation for 
health could improve Mr Gs annuity rate. It said its files showed that the guarantee offered 
by Provider P was the best option. Moneyology concluded by saying it thought the best 
possible annuity had been provided. 
Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into it. 
He didnt uphold it. Our investigator thought the crux of the complaint was that Mr and Mrs 
Gs health conditions shouldve been considered when advised to buy an annuity and if this 
had been done Mr G wouldve got an enhanced annuity and thus more income. Our 
investigator said Moneyology had obtained quotes for enhanced annuities, but these quotes 
were lower than that of the guaranteed annuity rate from Mr Gs current provider. So our 
investigator didnt think the advice was unsuitable. 
Mr G didnt agree with our investigators view. Among other things, he wanted to know why 
Moneyology had in his view claimed wrongly and only when asked that he wasnt eligible for 
an enhanced annuity with Provider P. 
Our investigator considered the points made by Mr G, but it didnt change his view. Our 
investigator still didnt think the annuity recommended was unsuitable. He also explained 
that it was unlikely that Mr G wouldve been offered an enhancement on top of the 
guaranteed annuity rate because if Mr G had been eligible for an enhanced annuity rate it 
wouldve been calculated in line with a standard annuity and compared to the amount 
received from the guaranteed annuity and if higher, offered to Mr G. He also said that the 
documentation provided by Moneyology didnt show that Provider P offered enhanced 
annuities at the time. 
Mr G said he thought Moneyology wouldve made direct enquiries with Provider P about 
enhanced annuities. And he said documentation from Prudential at the time showed it did 
provide enhanced annuities. He also didnt think Moneyology had explained the calculation 
method for enhanced annuities so he said the statement made by Moneyology misled him to 
think that Provider P wouldnt provide enhanced annuities with the guarantee. In 2019 he 
says Provider P rejected this. 
So the complaint came to me for decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened. In this case, Mr G is of the strong view that the Moneyology adviser verbally 
indicated that Provider P didnt offer enhanced annuities with a guarantee, which Mr G took 
to mean the ten-year guarantee.  Mr G says he discovered in 2019 that this wasnt the case 
during the Provider P annuity sales review. He thinks he and Mrs G mayve lost out 
financially. 
Our role is to resolve complaints informally. Should we decide something has gone wrong 
we tell the business to put it right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the 
position they wouldve been in if the problem hadnt occurred. In this case, Im persuaded 
that even if there was a misunderstanding about what Provider P offered in relation to 
enhanced annuities, this hasnt caused a financial loss. So Im not going to tell Moneyology 
to do anything.
Its not possible for me on the evidence to draw a firm conclusion about what was said 
verbally prior to Mr G taking out the annuity. This is only speculation on my part, but it may 
be that any such reference to guarantee was a reference to the GAR, rather than to the ten-year guarantee. In other words, Provider P wouldnt provide an enhanced annuity with the 
GAR. As our investigator explained, Provider P wouldnt have calculated an enhanced 
annuity with the GAR. Instead, it wouldve been calculated on a standard basis, without 
enhancement. So I think that this interpretation of any such statement is the most consistent 
with industry practice.
I do think it is likely that there was a misunderstanding about whatever was said. Ive no 
doubt Mr G is sincere in his recollections of the conversation prior to taking out the annuity, 
and what he thought was meant. 
What is clear from the evidence is that Moneyology carried out a search of the open market 
options (those offering enhanced annuities to everyone, not just its customers) for an 
enhanced annuity and compared those to what was available under the GAR. Im satisfied 
that Moneyology suitably concluded that the annuity with the GAR best met Mr and Mrs Gs 
objectives. 
Mr G thinks Moneyology shouldve made direct enquiries with Provider P about enhanced 
annuities. I understand why he says this, but I cant say that Moneyology did anything wrong 
in not obtaining a quote from Provider P. I say this because it conducted a search of 
enhanced annuities through industry software, and Provider P wasnt listed. In my view this 
is a reasonable approach
Its possible that Provider P offered enhanced annuities to existing customers at the time Mr 
and Mrs G took advice, as Mr G says. But I dont think this has caused Mr and Mrs G any 
loss. This is because Im not persuaded that Provider P wouldve offered an enhanced 
annuity on the same basis that Mr and Mrs G sought (i.e. a level annuity with a ten-year 
guarantee). This is because I agree with our investigator that Provider P wouldve calculated 
an enhanced annuity on the standard basis, rather than with the GAR. There is no reason to 
think that any such enhanced annuity offered by Provider P wouldve exceeded the GAR, 
given the quotes obtained by other providers. So I cant say that Mr and Mrs G have suffered 
any loss from any misunderstanding.
 
For the reasons given above, Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman