DRN-4040434
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, 
trading as Novuna Vehicle Solutions, and who Ill call Novuna.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I know it will disappoint Mr B, I dont think Novuna have been 
unreasonable here and Im not asking them to take any action. Ill explain why.
Mr B acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr B responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
It was for Novuna to decide how much to charge for the refurbishment of any damage. I 
dont think the charges they have made are excessive. Theyre broadly in line with similar 
charges Ive seen their competitors make, and if Mr B didnt want to pay those refurbishment 
charges it was open to him to repair the car before returning it.
The car was returned having completed a lower mileage than Mr B was allowed to cover 
under the agreement. But there was no agreement to offset any potential increase in sales 
price Novuna may achieve for the car, against refurbishment charges. So, I dont think 
Novuna were wrong not to consider that.
The damage charges
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned 
at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA). I understand that this car was delivered with a few hundred miles on the clock, but 
I dont think that changes the standard that Novuna needed to use to determine fair wear 
and tear, as I think it likely the car would have been delivered in as new condition. 
So, Ill use that standard when considering if the damage evidenced in the inspection report 
can fairly be considered to be beyond normal wear and tear and chargeable.
Alloy wheel damage
The BVRLA guidance says:
Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the wheel/alloy is not 
acceptable
The spokes are the sections that connect the rim to the centre of the wheel.
There are scratches to the spokes of both wheels, so I think the charge Novuna have raised 
is fair.
Front bumper
The BVRLA guidance says:
Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than two per
panel and the paint surface is not broken.
And
Chips of 3mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided they are not rusted.
The ruler shown in photograph one shows the chip to the bumper to be more than 3mm, so 
the damage is in excess of the guidance and the charge has been fairly made.
The third image shows distortion to the zebra board that is reflected in the bumper. The 
distortion covers at least three stripes, and each stripe is equivalent to 5mm. So, Im 
persuaded that damage and the chip are in excess of what the industry guidance says is 
acceptable. I think it was therefore fair for Novuna to make a charge for refurbishment.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman