DRN-3660397
The complaint
Mr C complained about Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos. He 
isnt happy that a default was issued against his name after there was a problem with his 
direct debit payment which affected his credit file.
What happened
Mr Cs direct debit payment failed for some reason, but he wasnt aware of this at the time. 
Argos wrote out to Mr C about the payment failing but Mr C had changed address, so he 
wasnt aware of the problem. And Argos referred the matter to a debt collection agency, and 
ultimately this has affected his credit file.  
As Mr C wasnt happy about this he complained to Argos. It acknowledged that it had been 
communicating with an incorrect address, as Mr C had moved. But said it hadnt done 
anything wrong as it simply followed its process which led to a default.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C and upheld his complaint. She thought it was 
clear that Mr C had changed address as mail had been returned earlier to Argos and it had 
marked its internal records accordingly. And that Argos shouldve looked to communicate 
with Mr C by other means (such as email, phone or text). 
As Argos didnt agree and didnt respond to our investigators follow up view the matter has 
been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Argos has followed its process I think this has produced an unfair outcome in the 
particular circumstances of this case. Ill explain why.
Mr C didnt realise there was a problem with his direct debit which was for a small amount. 
When Argos wrote out to him about this it knew the address it held was incorrect as it had 
mail returned before and decided to stop sending post to the address it held previously. It 
only started to write out to Mr C again, at the incorrect address, following the problem with 
the direct debit. And Mr C has told this Service that he told Argos he had moved address on 
more than one occasion. Given this, Im surprised it didnt look to communicate with Mr C by 
some other means such as text or email.
Argos did suggest it tried other means of contacting Mr C but the information it provided 
doesnt appear to be for either Mr Cs email address or mobile number. Our investigator 
questioned this with Argos, but it failed to respond. So I can only go on the information that 
has been provided which suggests that Argos only looked to communicate with Mr C at an 
address it knew, or ought to have known, was incorrect when it could have communicated by 
other means. 
Given all of this I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case, is for Argos to remove the default from Mr Cs account and update his credit file to 
ensure that any adverse marker is removed. And to pay him £100 compensation for the 
clear stress and inconvenience all this has caused.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Home Retail 
Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos to remove the default from Mr Cs record, to 
ensure his credit score isnt affected, and to pay £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman