DRN-4166874
The complaint
Mr T complains Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMFL) irresponsibly approved a hire 
purchase agreement which he couldnt afford.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr T acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement from SMFL. The
cash price of the car was £10,849, it was six years old and had done 60,987 miles. Under
the agreement, he was to make 59 monthly repayments of £284.07, followed by a final
instalment of £294.07. The total amount repayable was £17,354.20.
Mr T missed a repayment in August 2019. SMFL also agreed to defer payments due in April
and May 2020 until the end of the agreement in recognition of the impact of Covid-19. Mr T
settled the agreement in September 2021 with funds he received from a personal injury
claim.
Mr T has representatives who complained to SMFL on his behalf in October 2022. They
complained SMFL didnt carry out proportionate checks at the time the lending was agreed
as Mr T had credit commitments and missed payments. Therefore, they said SMLF lent to
Mr T irresponsibly and this affected how he was able to manage his finances.
SMFL responded to the complaint on 5 December 2022. It set out the checks undertaken
and argued it had acted fairly in approving the finance.
Mr T remained unhappy with SMFLs response, so the complaint was referred to our service.
Our investigator issued a view explaining why they thought the complaint shouldnt be
upheld. Mr Ts representatives confirmed he didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me 
for decision. SMFL confirmed it didnt have anything to add.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 July 2023. I said: 
Did SMFL complete reasonable and proportionate affordability checks?
SMFL were required to ensure it carried out adequate checks on Mr Ts ability to 
sustainably afford the agreement. These checks had to be borrower-focused and 
proportionate. What is considered proportionate will vary depending on the 
circumstances, such as (but not limited to): the total amount repayable, the size of 
the monthly repayments, the term of the agreement and the consumers specific 
circumstances.
Ive reviewed the application made by Mr T for the lending. Mr T confirmed his 
employment and income details. He also stated he was living with his parents. SMFL 
said it verified his net monthly income by reviewing his wage slips and confirmed he 
received £1,583 (which was approximately £110 less than stated). SMFL havent 
provided this service with a copy of the wage slips it says it reviewed.
SMFL also confirmed it considered Mr Ts credit reference data and have provided 
system notes showing the information it had at the time. Mr T had eight active credit 
products. I can see he missed two payments on 1 July 2019, but it seems the 
accounts had been brought up to date at the time of the application.
In respect of the financial commitments, SMFL noted Mr T had existing monthly
commitments amounting to £250.90. This meant with the additional borrowing, Mr T 
would need a total of £534.97 to meet his monthly commitments. This amounts to 
around a third of his net monthly income, which Im satisfied is a significant 
proportion.
Im also mindful the information showed he had two credit cards with no balance and 
credit limits of £250 and £300. He also had a current account with an overdraft limit 
of £550 and he was overdrawn by £477.
SMFL have confirmed it used information from a credit reference agency to calculate 
Mr Ts affordability. This included estimates based on Mr Ts income, residential 
status and region as well as rent. It also accounted for Mr Ts financial commitments. 
Having done so, it estimated Mr Ts disposable income as being £1,053.61.
Having thought carefully about the information SMFL gathered, I dont agree it 
completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. I think it should have 
done more to establish Mr Ts accurate monthly expenditure. This is particularly 
because of the proportion of his net monthly income which would go towards meeting 
his financial commitments on approval of the agreement.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr T would be able to 
repay the agreement without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on 
his financial situation?
Such additional checks might have included asking Mr T about his committed 
expenditure and, depending on what was said, verifying this by obtaining further 
information.
As I dont think SMFL carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, Ive 
considered what a proportionate check would have looked like. Ive reviewed three 
bank statements which show some of Mr Ts expenditure in the three-month period 
leading up to the agreement. Im not saying SMFL needed to obtain bank statements 
as part of its lending checks. However, in the absence of any further information, I 
think the bank statements will likely show a reflection of Mr Ts financial 
circumstances at the time.
Having reviewed the bank statements, it seems Mr T transferred money between 
accounts and the account statements provided show very limited direct debits or 
standing order payments. Our investigator made a reasonable request for statements 
relating to Mr Ts other accounts. But theyve not been provided. Therefore, Im 
currently unable to say what SMFL would likely have seen had it completed 
proportionate checks and asked about Mr Ts monthly expenditure (either by 
questioning it with Mr T or requesting further information from him).
I appreciate Mr T had missed two payments prior to making the application and had 
eight credit products. Ive reviewed Mr Ts credit file and can see there was a missed 
payment in January 2019, two missed payments in January 2018 and four missed 
payments in 2017. There was also an arrangement to pay between October and 
December 2017. I can see Mr T made use of a payday loan in January 2019.However, I dont think this in itself should have led SMFL to question his ability to 
make the repayments. I note there were no defaults and the information showed he 
was generally managing his financial commitments. He also wasnt utilising all the 
credit available to him. So, Im not able to conclude their lending decision was 
unreasonable based on the information Ive received.
Did SMFL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive reviewed the credit information and I can see Mr T went on to miss payments on 
some of his other credit commitments. I can see he first missed a payment for this 
agreement in August 2019 and he also couldnt make the repayments in April and 
May 2020.
Ive reviewed the contact notes and can see Mr T provided reasons why he could not 
meet these commitments. This included receiving wages late, losing his job and the 
impact of Covid-19. I note SMFL offered to defer payments until the end of the 
agreement. I also recognise Mr T was able to settle the agreement with funds from a 
personal injury claim.
As I cant say what proportionate checks at the time of the agreement would have 
shown, it seems the financial difficulties were more likely caused by changes in 
circumstances across the relevant period, rather than as a result of the lending 
decision.
SMFL were obliged to treat Mr T with forbearance and due consideration if it was 
made aware or should reasonably have been aware that Mr T was in financial 
difficulties. However, Mr T gave a reason for his missed payments, and Im satisfied 
SMFL acted fairly when Mr T contacted them about this.
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and confirmed I 
would consider anything else they provided as long as it was submitted by 1 August 2023. I 
havent received anything further from either party. So, Ive proceeded with a final decision 
based on the information I do have. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in 
my provisional decision. Therefore, I remain of the view that SMFL didnt complete 
proportionate checks. However, the evidence Ive seen isnt sufficient for me to say the 
lending was unaffordable. The reasons for this are outlined above.  So, Im unable to 
conclude SMFL shouldnt have entered the agreement even if they had completed 
proportionate checks and I wont be asking them to do anything to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 Laura Dean
Ombudsman