DRN-4480851
The complaint
Miss H complains that she spent a lot of time on the phone to Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) 
when she contacted them to make a chargeback.  
What happened
On 3 February 2023, Miss H telephoned Lloyds to make a chargeback claim for a 
transaction made in the previous month. However, Miss H was passed to various 
departments at Lloyds before she was able to do this.
Miss H complained to Lloyds as she was unhappy with what had happened. She said shed 
had to spend around 30 minutes on the phone before someone at Lloyds was able to 
properly help her. 
Lloyds upheld the complaint. They said it shouldnt have taken Miss H so long to resolve this 
issue and apologised for this. Lloyds subsequently offered to pay Miss H £10 for the 
inconvenience shed been caused. 
Miss H remained unhappy and referred her complaint to us. Our investigator felt that Lloyds 
offer and apology was fair and noted this hadnt impacted her chargeback claim which was 
successful. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not entirely clear whether Miss H disagrees with our investigator and why. I say this as 
Ive listened to the phone call he had with Miss H where he explained his view on the 
complaint. It didnt appear that Miss H remained unhappy following this and the conversation 
turned to her other complaint which is being dealt with separately here. 
However, in case Im wrong about that, and to resolve matters, Ive reviewed the 
circumstances which led to Miss H complaining to Lloyds. 
Ive looked at Lloyds account history notes which set out what happened when Miss H 
called them about making a chargeback. The notes show that Miss H spent around 30 
minutes on the phone and was transferred to different departments on several occasions. I 
can understand how frustrating this was for her. 
I think though that Lloyds apologising for what happened and offering to pay Miss H the sum 
they offered is fair overall. I think that fairly deals with the inconvenience she was caused, 
and I understand that Lloyds has paid Miss H the £10 they offered her. 
I understand that Miss H isnt happy her complaint has been looked at separately to her 
other complaint about a different chargeback claim. I see no reason though why it was 
inappropriate to look at those issues separately. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman