The complaint
Miss F complains about First Claims Group (FCG) and their failure to progress her claims 
about mis-sold payday loans.
What happened
In January 2019, Miss F instructed FCG to pursue claims about mis-sold payday loans 
against three different lenders. Ill refer to them as Lender E, Lender P and Lender W.
For Miss Fs claim against Lender E, a final response was received in March 2019, rejecting 
her claim as the loans were taken out more than six years beforehand. FCG advised Miss F 
they wouldnt be progressing her claim any further for this reason and advised her shed also 
be able to take any further action herself.
For the claim against Lender P, a final response was received in June 2019 explaining the 
lender thought two loans has been sold reasonably and for the remaining four they were 
unable to determine whether theyd been mis-sold. Miss F provided FCG with statements 
she thought would allow Lender P to revisit her claim. Miss F has heard nothing further 
regarding her claim against Lender P.
For the claim against Lender W, FCG were notified that the claim had been upheld in 
October 2019. But, due to Lender W being in administration, the refund Miss F would receive 
would be much less than refund she was entitled. They explained the reduced payment 
would be made by no later than January 2020. Miss F is yet to receive this payment.
Miss F was unhappy that she hadnt received a refund for any of her claims so she raised a 
complaint. She thought FCG had failed to progress her claims effectively and this had led to 
delays. She thought because of these delays, shed lost an opportunity to challenge the 
lenders decisions and this had left her financially out of pocket. She was also unhappy at the 
lack of updates she thought FCG had provided, and the time shed had to take to chase 
them. Finally, she thought shed been informed incorrectly about her ability to challenge 
Lender Es decision. Miss F didnt receive a response to her complaint, so she referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She thought FCG had failed to 
progress Miss Fs claims effectively. For Lender E, she agreed FCG has told her incorrectly 
she was unable to challenge the decision. She explained Miss F couldve challenged the 
decision as, even though the loans were sold more than six years ago, she was able to 
challenge this on the basis she only became aware of the mis-sale in the last three years.
For Lender P, she couldnt see the statements Miss F provided were forwarded. So, she 
thought it was likely FCG had ceased to act on her behalf and failed to complete the claim. 
But, she didnt agree Miss F was out of time as Lender P hadnt issued a decision on the 
four claims they hadnt determined. So, she couldnt say Miss F was out of time.
DRN-1911934For Lender W, she thought it was most likely that FCG had received the payment due in 
January 2020. As Miss F hadnt received this payment, and FCG provided no evidence to 
show it was sent, she thought theyd acted unreasonably.
So, to recognise FCGs mis-advice and their failure to progress Miss Fs claims, she thought 
FCG should pay £150 to recognise the inconvenience and frustration Miss F had been 
caused. She also thought FCG should pay Miss F the amount theyd most likely received 
from Lender W in January 2020. FCG didnt respond to our investigators view, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Miss Fs complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator.
My decision is based on the evidence I have available. FCG have failed to provide any 
information to support our investigation. So, where I havent been able to see everything Id 
need ideally, Ive made a decision based on what I think was most likely to have happened.
Ive no doubt that Miss F has been left frustrated by the difficulties shes experienced when 
progressing her claims through FCG. I appreciate that when she instructed FCG, she 
wouldve expected them to have completed her claims in a reasonable time frame and that 
shed receive a full and final decision on them all. Whether they were successful or not, this 
wouldve brought her closure to the claims and the difficulties she faced after using the 
payday loans themselves. And unfortunately, I dont think this has been the case.
For Lender E, I dont think FCG acted unfairly when explaining they wouldnt be acting any 
further after receiving the final decision. At this point, I think they were able to decide 
whether theyd continue with the claim as the progressed it to a fair conclusion. But, Ive 
seen they told Miss F that shed also be unable to progress the claim herself as the loans 
were sold more than six months beforehand. I dont think this was necessarily correct. Miss 
F couldve challenged this decision if she felt she only became aware of the mis-sale in the 
previous three years. Im unable to say whether this challenge wouldve been successful but 
I think FCG shouldve made Miss F aware she had this opportunity. So, I can understand 
why Miss F has been left frustrated and unsure whether shes lost out financially. And I think 
she should be compensated for this.
For Lender P, Ive seen no evidence to show they forwarded Miss Fs statements to support 
her claims against the four loans that had been undetermined. So, on balance, I think its 
likely they didnt. I havent seen evidence to show they made Miss F aware they wouldnt be 
completing any further work, which has meant shes been delayed in forwarding these 
statements to Lender P herself. And I think Miss F should be compensated for this delay. 
But, as I cant see Lender P have issued a final decision making a determination on these 
four loans. So, I think Miss F is still able to pursue these loans should she wish and Im 
unable to say shes lost the opportunity to do so. 
For Lender W, Ive seen an e-mail FCG received confirming Miss F was entitled to a refund. 
This e-mail didnt provide the exact amount Miss F would receive due to Lender W being in 
administration. But it did explain payment would most likely be made by 30 January 2020. 
Ive seen on the same day the Lender W made the offer, FCG responded accepting it and 
asking for the payment to be made to their client account. Miss F has confirmed she hasnt 
received a refund. And FCG have shown no evidence to show it was sent. So, on balance, I think its most likely FCG receive the refund into their client account and have failed to pay it 
on to Miss F. This has meant Miss F has been without a refund she was due, and I think this 
financial impact has been frustrating and she should be compensated for this. I also think 
she is entitled to being paid the refund amount she is due.
Putting things right
I think its clear FCGs actions have resulted in the completion of Miss Fs claims. I think this 
has been frustrating for Miss F, which is shown by the need for her to complain to our 
service and the amount of times she chased FCG for updates. To recognise the impact this 
has had, I direct FCG to pay Miss F £150.
I also direct FCG to pay Miss F the full refund amount she is due from Lender W.
My final decision
For the reasons outlines above, I uphold Miss Fs complaints about First Claims Group and 
direct them to take the following action:
Pay Miss F £150.
Pay Miss F the full refund amount she is due from Lender W
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman