DRN-2926896
The complaint
Miss C complains that Studio Retail Limited (Studio) are pursuing her for the cost of items
she says she never received. She would like her account credited. And negative information
removed from her credit file.
What happened
Miss C says she ordered several items from Studio in April 2019 under invoice numbers
773343 and 773189. She says the items didnt arrive and she spoke to Studio several times
about this. She later added items she says she hadnt received in February to her complaint.
She says on 17 June 2019 she spoke again to Studio as she was getting letters asking for
payment for  items she says she hadnt received. She says Studio advised some items 
would be credited but some she would need to pay for.
Studio said it would credit the three parcels under invoice 773189 as the delivery signature
didnt match the signature on Miss Cs account, and the parcel not been delivered to the
right radius. But it wouldnt credit invoice 773343 as Miss C had put in her complaint after
the 42-day timescale to do so. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in which I found :-
I had to consider if Miss C received items she ordered, if she had been correctly 
charged or not for any items she did get, and if negative information had been 
unfairly put on her credit file.
Receipt of items ordered
Studio told Miss C in a phone call that a signature didnt match the one Studio held 
on account and that parcel had been delivered to the wrong radius I assumed that 
meant to the wrong address. Studio credited back the items in this particular parcel 
which I thought was fair
However just because one parcel was delivered to the wrong radius didnt 
necessarily mean that all parcels delivered that day were similarly wrongly delivered. 
And the signatures might not have matched if someone else signed for the parcels 
on Miss Cs account.
It was unclear which parcels Miss C had received from her February orders. Studio 
told us Miss C put in a claim for all the items and that is what I understood from the 
customer notes. But Miss C told our investigator after his first view, when she asked 
him to investigate the February parcels, that she had received four of the seven items 
she ordered
I asked Miss C for clarification over what she had received but she  told us she had 
already provided this information and was finding the whole situation very stressful. I 
acknowledged her stress, but I didnt believe she had provided this information to us 
and it would have been helpful had she done so.
It was clear Miss C had received some of her items  at least from the February 
orders. But the information provided was both contradictory and confusing from both 
sides so  I didnt think I could reasonably conclude which items Miss C did receive 
and which she didnt.
Charges for items received
As it was difficult to work out what Miss C had received it was similarly difficult to 
work out what she was credited and what she was charged for.
It was clear some mistakes were made with Miss Cs account - for example, if I 
understood correctly, Studio agreed to credit the items Miss C says she didnt receive 
under invoice 773189 but instead credited her for items under invoice 773343.
Studio said overall it over credited Miss Cs account in effect reducing her 
outstanding balance. From the information Studio provided it was clear to me it did 
credit some items that Miss C initially said she didnt receive but she since told us 
she had received. It also credited other  items Miss C says she never received.
Despite the contradictory and confusing information, I was certain that Studio 
credited some items that Miss C received, and some items Miss C says she didnt 
get. As I cant be sure if Miss C got these items or not, I was inclined to accept 
Studios statement of the account as more accurate thans Miss Cs  since I thought 
on balance it was more likely than not that it has over credited Miss Cs account.
Studio told us it would bear the loss of over crediting Miss Cs account and not seek 
to recover the loss. Given the confusion by both parties I thought that is a fair position 
to take.
Credit file information 
The combination of charges, credits, claims for missed items, disputes and conflicting 
information from both sides made it hard to follow Miss Cs account. So, I could 
understand why she might not have understood the balance on her statement and 
what she was being charged for.
I didnt think it was reasonable for Miss C to make no payments on her account. She 
told us she did receive some items though that didnt seem to be the case initially 
which contributed to the confusion on the account. But also, in accepting she did get 
some items Miss C would have known that she owed Studio some money even if she 
was disputing receipt of other items. I thought she should have at least paid the 
minimum payment required each month or the full amount for the good received.
 As I understood, Miss C didnt make any payments to her account. Studios terms 
and conditions make it clear that minimum payments are due each month so Miss C 
would have been aware of that.
It was important t that credit files accurately reflect account history, I didnt think 
Studio were reasonable in reporting negative information on Miss Cs credit file and I didnt think it was reasonable to expect Studio to remove any adverse information on 
Miss Cs credit file. It was Miss Cs choice not to make any payments and I think she 
would have realised in not doing so there would be a potential impact on her credit 
file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Studio nor Miss c have responded to my provisional decision.
As the decision was in Studios favour, I wouldnt necessarily have expected it to come back 
with any further comments for me to consider.
We did email Miss C on 5 July 2021 to remind her responses to the provisional decision 
were due by 14 July 2021, but we have had no response.
I feel both parties have had enough time  one month  to make any comments they wish 
me to consider. And as neither side has indicated they need more time, or they have 
something to put to me I think its reasonable for me to go ahead and make my final 
decision. 
I am also mindful that a lot of the information I have had to date has been contradictory and 
lacking in clarity so am not convinced , having already gone back to both parties several 
times in the course of my review of Miss Cs complaint, that any further information will 
necessarily  serve any purpose. 
I have reviewed my provisional findings and with no new information I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision. I was , and still am, unable to  conclude just what items 
Miss C did receive. But its clear Studio credited Miss Cs account for items she received. 
So, on balance I think its more likely than not that Miss C has been under not over charged.
I accept there was some confusion over Miss Cs account but some of this was due to Miss 
C initially claiming for items she then subsequently said she had received  Given Miss  C did 
receive some items I think its unreasonable that she didnt at least make the minimum 
payments whilst she was querying her overall balance
I dont feel its reasonable to tell Studio to remove negative information from Miss Cs credit 
file. Miss C would have been aware from the terms and conditions and from her statements 
that minimum payments needed to be made each month, but she chose not to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that  I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman