DRN-3473840
Complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) closed his account and recorded a 
fraud prevention marker against him. He says he recently watched a television programme 
about scams and believes that he may have been a victim of one.
Background
In February 2020, Mr Ms Santander top-up debit card received a transfer of £1,400.00 from 
a third-party. On the day the funds arrived, £1,300 was transferred into Mr Ms Santander 
Basic account before being moved on to a third-party. Shortly afterwards, Santander 
received a notification from the bank which sent the payment to Mr Ms top-up debit card 
stating that the payer of the funds had reported being a victim of fraud. Santander reviewed 
Mr Ms account, decided to close it and also record a fraud prevention marker against Mr M.
Mr M was unhappy with Santanders actions and made a complaint. Santander looked at   
Mr Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr M remained dissatisfied he referred the matter 
to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms concerns. She didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr M disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Santander has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr M is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Santander must first be able to show that fraudulent 
funds entered Mr Ms account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. 
Secondly, Santander also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr M was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment. This can include Mr M allowing someone else to use his account in order to 
receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who 
was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Ms complaint, I need to decide whether I think Santander had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Ms account and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Santander 
has done this here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
During the course of the initial investigation, Mr M told Santander that the payment into his 
account was from the proceeds of the sale of a watch. Mr M said hes sold the watch to 
someone down south and faxed over a valuation from a jeweller to support what he says. 
However, Mr M was unable to provide anything to demonstrate him having a sold the watch 
to anyone or having dispatched it to them either. And Santander wasnt persuaded by the 
information.
When Mr M referred his complaint to us, he then told us that he was approached by 
someone in a pub who said that they would transfer some money into his account and if he 
then transferred this out hed receive a percentage. He said that he did this and his account 
was closed a few days after this.
Ive thought about what Mr M has said. But, in truth, given the inconsistent versions of 
events hes provided throughout the course of the investigation, its difficult to know what 
happened or for me to place much weight at all on what Mr M has said. Im particularly 
concerned that he attempted to provide documentation  in the form of the watch valuation  
to support what he now says isnt what happened.
Furthermore, even if I were to take Mr Ms most recent explanation as being more accurate 
hes still saying that he provided someone with his bank details for a financial gain. Given   
Mr M was providing his details to someone who presumably wasnt prepared to use their 
own account in order retain this payment, I think that Mr M ought to have realised that there 
was a significant risk his account would be used for illegitimate purposes. This is especially 
as Mr M hasnt provided any explanation for why he would have thought that any payment 
hed receive would be legitimate. So I think that Mr M provided his details in circumstances 
where he ought to have realised there as a significant risk his account would be used for 
illegitimate purposes. 
In these circumstances, I cant reasonably conclude Mr M was an unwitting participant here. 
Instead, I think its more likely than not he was complicit in his account receiving fraudulent 
funds.
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Santander did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Ms account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not Mr M was complicit in this. As this is the 
case, I dont think that it was unfair for Santander to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. 
I now turn to the closure of Mr Ms account. The terms and conditions of Mr Ms account 
permitted Santander to close it where it was used in any way to give rise to reasonable 
suspicion of fraud or other criminal activities. Ive already explained why I think Santander 
was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr Ms account had been used for fraudulent 
purposes when explaining why it didnt act unfairly in recording the fraud prevention marker. As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much the same reasons, the terms and 
conditions permitted Santander to close Mr Ms account. And Im therefore not upholding   
Mr Ms complaint on this basis either.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr M  especially in light of the ongoing impact 
hes said the fraud marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, Mr M 
might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as he applies for a 
Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman