DRN-4275753
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from American Express Payment Services 
Limited (AEPSL) when he called to request that a refund to his cancelled card be transferred 
to his active card.
What happened
Mr C called AEPSL in October 2022 to request that a refund of £10.90 which had been 
credited to a closed credit card account was transferred to his active credit card account.
The agent who dealt with Mr Cs request advised him that his request would be actioned.
The request was subsequently rejected by the back office team at AEPSL and a letter was 
sent to Mr C advising him that the refund couldnt be transferred to the account that he had 
requested. The letter advised Mr C to request a credit balance refund instead.
Mr C called AEPSL again about his request. He says the agent wouldnt listen and that he 
was kept on the call for a long time.
AEPSL transferred the credit balance to Mr Cs current account and sent him a letter 
confirming this.
Mr C complained to AEPSL. In its final response, AEPSL partially upheld the complaint. It 
acknowledged that Mr C had been given incorrect information on the initial call and paid 
compensation of £50.
Mr C remained unhappy and complained to this service. He didnt think the compensation 
was fair.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that although the AEPSL agent had 
misinformed Mr C during the initial call, AEPSL had acknowledged the error and paid 
compensation which the investigator thought was a fair and reasonable amount.
Mr C wasnt happy with the outcome, so Ive been asked to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call recordings in relation to this complaint. Its not disputed that during Mr 
Cs initial call he was advised that the refund would be transferred to the account he had 
requested.
I can see that AEPSL sent a letter to Mr C soon after the initial call explaining that the refund 
couldnt be transferred to the account he had requested. 
Ive reviewed the information provided by both parties. The information from AEPSL shows 
that credit balances cannot be transferred from one credit card to another. Im satisfied that 
AEPSL acted reasonably by writing to Mr C to explain that it couldnt do as he had requested 
and advised him of the available options.
When Mr C contacted AEPSL on 21 October 2022, he was advised that the previous call 
handler had made an error and was advised that the refund couldnt be transferred from one 
credit card to another. During the call, the agent explained to Mr C that the credit balance 
could either be transferred to Mr Cs current account, or a cheque could be issued.
I understand that the credit balance was subsequently transferred to Mr Cs current account.
Having reviewed all of the information, and whilst I acknowledged that AEPSL made an error 
when it provided incorrect advice on the initial call, Im satisfied that AEPSL identified its 
error and took steps to correct it within a reasonable time. I understand that Mr C has been 
caused some frustration and inconvenience, but I think the compensation already paid is fair 
and reasonable and in line with what this service would recommend.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman