DRN-2875859
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy because he says that Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited (MAB) mis-sold him 
an income protection policy. 
What happened
Mr M had an income protection policy with an insurer Ill refer to as Insurer R. Hed had 
cover with Insurer R for some time  the policy had a deferred period of four weeks and 
would have paid a monthly benefit of £1500 in the event that Mr M was unable to work due 
to injury or illness.
In October 2019 Mr M received advice from MAB about his income protection needs. He 
applied for a policy with another insurer, who Ill refer to as Insurer L. The insurer accepted 
his application, but placed an exclusion on the policy for a pre-existing medical condition 
(carpel tunnel syndrome). Mr M cancelled his policy with Insurer R. 
In early 2020 Mr M had surgery for carpel tunnel syndrome and claimed on his policy. 
Insurer L declined the claim on the basis that claims for carpel tunnel syndrome were 
excluded. Mr M complained to MAB about the advice he received. MAB said, in summary, 
that Mr M had been made aware of the limitation in cover and decided to keep the policy 
with Insurer L.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. She wasnt 
satisfied that the exclusion had been explained to Mr M and that, had it been, it was unlikely 
hed have taken out the policy with Insurer L. She highlighted that Mr M had spoken to MAB 
after taking out the policy, and that he was aware at that point that he was going to have to 
have surgery to treat the carpal tunnel syndrome. So, she recommended MAB paid the 
value of the claim, plus 8% simple interest. 
MAB didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said that theyd 
spoken to Mr M about the exclusion and that it had been taken into account when 
recommending the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MAB provided Mr M with advice when it sold the income protection policy to him. So, the 
relevant rules and industry guidelines, MAB needed to ensure that the policy was right for 
Mr M and that also it provided him with clear, fair and non-misleading information.
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint as I dont think that MAB have evidenced that they 
recommended a policy which was suitable for Mr Ms demands and needs. I say that 
because: 
Mr M had cover in place with Insurer R at the time the sale took place. Hed had the 
policy for a few years and had continuous cover. So, based on the available 
evidence, he was in a position where he had cover if needed to take time off work 
because of carpal tunnel syndrome 
The policy with Insurer L cost about the same price as the policy Mr M held with 
Insurer R and offered similar benefits. But Mr M had declared an existing medical 
condition and Insurer L excluded it from cover. So, there was no obvious reason for  
Mr M to move from a policy where he had cover for a pre-existing condition to a 
policy where he had no cover for it 
Ive taken into account the information on the documentation from the point of sale. 
The advisor noted that he had made Mr M aware of the factors that could impact on 
a successful claim on the new plan, such as diagnosed conditions which have 
come to light after your current plan was taken out. But Im not persuaded that this 
means the advisor made the full implications of switching cover clear to Mr M and 
how that may impact on his specific circumstances in the event of a claim
Mr M also contacted MAB when Insurer L sent him further paperwork. There was 
also a discussion over the phone about the exclusion but theres no recording of 
the call or contemporary notes of what was discussed. So, I dont think that I can 
fairly conclude the implications of the exclusion were made clear to Mr M during 
that discussion 
Ive also taken into account details of a conversation that Mr M had with an 
administrator when he attended MABs office to finalise some of the paperwork. Mr 
M mentioned that he was due to have an operation, but the administrator didnt go 
into any further detail with Mr M about this. By this point Mr M knew that he was 
going to have surgery and, given the nature of the surgery for carpal tunnel 
syndrome and Mr Ms occupation, I think it would have been foreseeable that this 
could give rise to a claim
Taking all of the above into account Im not persuaded that MAB treated Mr M fairly 
when recommending a policy to him which excluded cover for his pre-existing 
medical condition, particularly when his existing policy with Insurer R would have 
offered him cover. It also seems very unlikely to me that Mr M would have changed 
his cover had this been made clear to him, particularly given that by the time he 
was finalising the paperwork he was aware that he was going to need surgery 
I dont think the policy was suitable for Mr Ms demands and needs. And, I think that 
Mr M would have acted differently if it had been made clearer to him that he 
wouldnt be able to claim on the new policy if he needed to take time off work due 
to carpal tunnel syndrome. I think hed have kept his policy with Insurer R, rather 
than switch to Insurer L. Had he done so I think its most likely hed have been able 
to successfully claim on the policy and that Insurer R would have paid him a benefit 
during the time he was off work.
   
Putting things rightMr Ms policy with Insurer R had a four week deferred period. That means he couldnt 
receive any benefit from it for the first four weeks he was unable to work. But, thereafter, it 
would have paid £1500 per month. Mr Ms provided evidence that he was away from work 
for approximately eleven weeks. So, I think Mr M would have been able to successfully claim 
for approximately seven weeks on the policy with Insurer R, had he retained it. 
On that basis I think MAB should put things right by paying Mr M the equivalent of seven 
weeks benefit. The full monthly benefit was £1500 and so I think its fair and reasonable that 
MAB pay Mr M £2625. 
They should also pay Mr M 8% simple interest from the date that the claim would have been 
payable (which is four weeks after Mr M first stopped work) to the date of settlement. 
If MAB considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and direct Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited to put things right in 
the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman