DRN-4465766
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lowell Financial Ltd failed to provide statements showing how interest 
and charges were applied to a debt it purchased in his name.
What happened
Mr G had an account with a business Ill call S. The account was closed at default and sold 
to Lowell. A Notice of Assignment was issued by Lowell on 15 February 2023 confirming the 
change of arrangements and asking Mr G to get in touch to discuss the account. 
Mr G went on to ask Lowell to obtain statements from S showing how the balance owed had 
built, including the interest and charges applied to his account. Lowell obtained an account 
summary from S that included details of how much Mr G had paid during the time his 
account was active, the total interest charged as well as the outstanding balance. The 
transaction list included details of all the items Mr G had purchased via his account with S as 
well as the dates of all payments made. 
Mr G complained to Lowell and it issued a final response on 17 April 2023. Lowell confirmed 
the outstanding balance, date of default and advised it had sent Mr G a transaction history 
supplied by S. 
Mr G went back to Lowell on a number of occasions and asked for statements that 
specifically showed how interest had accrued and been applied to his account with S over 
time. Lowell said that if Mr G wanted more detailed statements showing all interest that had 
been applied to his account since inception he could raise this directly with S. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Gs complaint. They thought Lowell had dealt 
with Mr Gs requests fairly and provided the information obtained from S showing how the 
debt came about. The investigator thought Lowell had dealt with Mr Gs request fairly and 
didnt ask it to take any further action. Mr G asked to appeal and said both Lowell and S had 
failed to provide a full statement of the account that showed how interest and charges had 
been applied to the outstanding balance over time. As Mr G asked to appeal his complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
I understand Mr G wants a more detailed set of statements that specifically show how 
interest was charged on his account with S so he can check the debt S sold to Lowell was 
accurate. After Mr G contacted Lowell, it was able to provide a copy of the original credit 
agreement and a detailed account summary from S.
The information Lowell obtained from S included details of all the goods Mr G purchased, 
payments made to the account and adjustments made. The summary includes a total 
interest figure Mr G incurred while the account remained open and active. I appreciate the 
information forwarded to Mr G doesnt show how interest was charged by S each month, 
only a total amount paid. However, the information Mr G has asked for isnt something 
Lowell has and can only be supplied by S which was the party that applied interest whilst the 
account was active. I understand Mr G feels that Lowell has failed to comply with his 
request. But Im satisfied Lowell asked S to supply information about his account and 
forwarded the response to Mr G. 
I can see that Lowell went back to S after the account summary and transaction history was 
forwarded to Mr G to request further detail. But S responded and said Mr G had raised a 
complaint directly with it about the outstanding balance and interest applied which had been 
subject to an ombudsmans decision. S didnt agree to provide further statement evidence 
and said the outstanding balance was correct. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but Im satisfied Lowell has provided the available information to 
show how the debt came about. It may be that S is able to provide copies of Mr Gs monthly 
statements going back to when the account opened. But thats something Mr G would need 
to address directly with S. Im satisfied Lowell has provided everything it can and dealt with 
Mr Gs enquiries and complaint fairly. As a result, Im not telling Lowell to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman