DRN-2581639
The complaint
Mr M complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) turned down his insurance 
claim for stolen items and treated the claim as fraudulent.  
What happened
Mr M made a claim to RSA following a burglary. RSA said some of the receipts hed 
provided for the stolen items didnt match the list of things that were reported as taken. Mr M 
said hed provided the receipts because he didnt have proof of purchase for two of the items 
he was claiming for. And so was attempting to gain a settlement for items that hadnt been 
stolen to make up for any potential shortfall in the settlement for the stolen items he couldnt 
evidence purchasing. 
RSA said this was dishonest and Mr M had breached the requirement of his policy to present 
claims in good faith. RSA declined the claim and cancelled Mr Ms policy. Mr M felt this was 
unfair and said he wasnt trying to gain anything he wasnt entitled to. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said RSA had acted fairly by 
treating Mr Ms actions as an attempt to increase the value of his claim. And so, it was 
reasonable for RSA to decline the claim and cancel the policy. 
Mr M disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said the 
burglary did happen and hed since put security measures in place as a result. Mr M said 
hed been confused and distressed by the questions put to him by RSA when they were 
assessing his claim, during what was already a stressful time for him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr M feels strongly about this complaint and so this will come as a 
disappointment to him. But as Ill go on to explain, I dont think RSAs decision to decline his 
claim and cancel his policy was unreasonable. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
Theres no dispute over whether Mr M was burgled. And I dont underestimate that this was 
a distressing and worrying time for him. The issue here is the claim, and whether Mr M was 
trying to claim for things he wasnt entitled to. 
RSA was within its rights to investigate Mr Ms claim in the way it did. I completely 
understand how he mightve found this stressful, particularly given the circumstances that 
gave rise to the claim. But Im satisfied RSA followed its claims handling procedures here 
and so didnt treat Mr M unfairly. 
I also appreciate that when questioned about the discrepancy between the items stolen and 
the receipts provided, Mr M admitted what hed done and the reasons for it. Hes since told 
us he was confused and stressed when questioned by RSA and didnt know what he was 
saying. But I can see from the witness statement completed and signed by Mr M that he 
admitted providing receipts for items that werent stolen in support of his claim. So, while I 
accept it was a stressful time for him, I dont think theres any reason to doubt Mr Ms 
account of what he did and the reasons for it.  
Ive considered carefully whether the action RSA took in declining the claim and cancelling 
the policy was fair. The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy make it clear that;
where a fraud (which can include exaggeration) is detected, claims will not be paid. 
I can only take Mr M at his word that he didnt have receipts for the stolen items he provided 
the extra receipts for. Nor do I know the correct value of those items. With that in mind, I 
dont think it was unreasonable of RSA to conclude Mr M was attempting to exaggerate the 
value of his claim by inducing it to pay for items that werent stolen. This is compounded by 
the fact Mr R only told RSA about what hed done when it questioned him about the claim. 
So, on balance, I think Mr M was in breach of the policy terms and RSA didnt act unfairly in 
declining his claim. 
The policy goes on to say;
 The policy may be rendered invalid. 
Whatever the logic for Mr Ms actions, by providing receipts for items that werent stolen, it 
doesnt seem unreasonable to me that RSA took the view he was trying to make a fraudulent 
claim. Mr Ms reasoning for what he did is plausible, and maybe he was naive in thinking his 
actions would help substantiate his claim for the stolen items he had no receipts for. But 
given we dont know the actual value of those items, and because Mr M was silent on this 
issue until questioned by RSA, I think its more likely than not he was trying to exaggerate 
what he was owed by claiming for items that werent stolen and so breached the terms of his 
policy. 
Having taken everything into account, I dont think RSA acted unreasonably in declining 
Mr Ms claim and cancelling his policy. And so, I wont be asking it to take any action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman