DRN-3390989
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as E, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the 
money its lost to a scam.
Mr and Mrs C, who are directors of E, bring the complaint on Es behalf.
Whats happened?
In July 2018, Mr C says he responded favourably to an advert about investments on a    
well-known social media platform. A few days later, he received a call from a company, 
which Ill refer to as C throughout this decision. The caller asked if hed be interested in 
investing money in cryptocurrency and sent him a brochure about C and the investment 
opportunity. Mr C did some research and found that C was listed on Companies House 
(CH), with a registered trading office in London. Social media platforms also gave Mr C the 
impression that C was genuine. So, he decided to go ahead and invest. Between        
August 2018 and February 2019, Mr C paid several amounts from Es account, as set out in 
the table below.
date amount payment method
13 August 2018 £5,000 online bank transfer
3 September 2018 £20,000 online bank transfer
10 October 2018 £75,000 CHAPS payment in a branch
13 November 2018 £100,000 CHAPS payment in a branch
5 February 2019 £49,999 online bank transfer
13 February 2019 £41,001 online bank transfer
During this time, Mr C says he had lots of communication with C via telephone and email. In 
addition, he was able to see that the investment portfolio was growing on Cs website and C 
was sending him regular updates.
In late January 2019, Mr C received notification from CH that C had received a first Gazette 
notice for compulsory strike-off. Mr C says his suspicions were aroused that C may not be 
genuine, but he discussed his concerns with C and was reassured that there was no 
problem. So, he continued to invest. He eventually realised that C was operating fraudulently 
when he didnt receive a withdrawal of profits as requested, and he was no longer able to 
contact C.
On 20 February 2019, another company got in touch with Mr C. Ill refer to that company as 
T throughout this decision. T said it was aware of Cs demise and assured Mr C that it could 
help reclaim Es money  it said it would be possible to have the money invested with C 
released before C was liquidated. Mr C says that T appeared genuine, so he paid several 
amounts to it from Es account for commission and tax, as set out in the table below.
date amount payment method
23 February 2019 £5,000 online bank transfer
27 February 2019 £49,999 online bank transfer
28 February 2019 £1,994.48 online bank transfer
7 March 2019 £70,086.29 CHAPS payment in a branch
14 March 2019 £31,000 online bank transfer
2 April 2019 £15,000 online bank transfer
Mr C became suspicious of T when it asked for payments of capital gains and corporation 
tax. He did some research and found that this type of tax would not ordinarily be payable in 
the circumstances. He challenged T but was ultimately persuaded that everything was above 
board, so he kept sending payments to T from Es account. Eventually Mr C attempted to 
visit Ts registered address but there was no sign of T there, and he realised that T was also 
operating fraudulently.
Mr C reported the whole situation to Barclays, and some other institutions, on 8 April 2019.
Barclays tried to recover Es funds from the receiving banks unsuccessfully. Then it said that 
it wouldnt refund the money E had lost because there hadnt been a bank error on this 
occasion  all of the disputed transactions were executed correctly in line with the payment 
instructions it had received, and it had no reasonable grounds to prevent E from making the 
payments.
Mr C wasnt happy with Barclays stance. He says that when he instructed the three CHAPS 
payments in-branch, he was told there would be a fraud check on them due to their high 
value. But he never received a call from Barclays to check if the payments were fraudulent. 
Mr C says the money lost through Es account came from his and Mrs Cs personal 
retirement savings, releasing equity from their property, cashing in their life insurance policy 
and taking out lending. Only £4,762.75 of the money lost has been recovered. He and his 
wife are vulnerable, and the fraudulent activity has left them in severe financial difficulties.
Barclays says its staff cant recall any specific interactions they had with Mr C due to the 
passage of time, but theyve said they wouldnt have told him fraud checks would be 
undertaken on the CHAPS payments as this isnt true. However, they would have advised 
that Mr C may receive a call from Barclays to check the payments were genuinely 
authorised.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator thought that Barclays couldve prevented the scam from 10 October 2018, 
and consequently Es loss from that date. So, he recommended that Barclays refund all the 
disputed transactions from this date, along with 8% simple interest. But he also thought that 
Mr and Mrs C couldve done more to prevent Es loss by reaching out to an appropriate body for help or advice rather than simply paying over more money to T from 23 February 2019. 
So, he said E should bear some responsibility for its loss from that date  at a rate of 20%.
Barclays offer
Barclays proposed a counter-offer. It said it would be willing to refund 50% of all the money 
E had lost to the scam  amounting to £232,000. It didnt offer to refund the full amount lost 
because it said its customer had not been duly diligent in this case, or approached it for 
assistance when it realised it had been scammed by C.
On behalf of E, Mr and Mrs C declined Barclays counter-offer. And, as Barclays wasnt 
willing to increase its offer, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 28 February 2022. Ill set out what I said below.
Its common ground that the disputed transactions were authorised. Mr C says he made the 
payments from Es account and, even though he didnt intend the payments to go to a 
fraudster, the payments were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations. 
Barclays had an obligation to follow the payment instructions it was given, and E is 
presumed liable for its loss in the first instance. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Barclays 
should:
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Ive looked at Es account statements as far back as early 2018 and I dont think the first 
payment of £5,000 on 13 August 2018 was particularly unusual or out of character in 
consideration of the normal account activity. Payments of similar or slightly higher amounts 
were made from the account on a regular basis, albeit to consistently used destinations. But 
I consider the payment of £20,000 instructed on 3 September 2018 to be high value, and for 
significantly more than any other recent payments out of the account. The payment went to 
the same payee as the earlier £5,000 payment, so arguably to a known payee. But, 
considering the value of the £20,000 payment against the account activity in the same year, I 
still think it stood out as unusual and out of character and, overall, I think its reasonable to 
expect Barclays to have asked some further questions about the payment.
It doesnt appear that Mr C was coached by the fraudsters, as is often the case with scams, 
so I think he wouldve spoken freely if Barclays had asked him some questions about the 
£20,000 payment.
The Financial Conduct Authority and Action Fraud published warnings about cryptocurrency 
scams in mid-2018. And investment scams in general were not uncommon at the time. So, I think Barclays had or ought to have had some understanding of how this type of scam works 
and, with its industry knowledge, I think this means it ought to have asked Mr C some 
probing questions and given him information regarding the prevalence of scams. Mr C has 
said he had no concerns about investing with C because it was listed on CH, had a 
registered trading office in London, social media platforms gave the impression that it was a 
genuine company, he had regular contact with C and he could see the investment portfolio 
growing on Cs website. Thats what he may have said if Barclays had questioned him about 
the £20,000 payment. But I dont think the conversation should have stopped there. Barclays 
couldve, for example, asked Mr C questions to get to the bottom of how hed been 
contacted, whether the investment opportunity had been mentioned on social media, what 
type of investment this apparently was, and whether the rate of return on the investment was 
too good to be true. These are typical features of cryptocurrency and investment scams.
If Barclays had done enough here, I think it would most likely have been obvious to the bank 
and Mr C that there was a risk of financial harm, and the scam wouldve unfolded without the 
£20,000 payment, or any subsequent payments being made. Of course, Barclays could also 
have declined to make the £20,000 payment (and any future payments of this nature) 
altogether based on the information it had received if Mr C still wanted to go ahead despite 
its warnings, and given the circumstances here, I think it wouldve been reasonable for it to 
do so.
I appreciate Barclays needs to strike a balance in the extent to which it intervenes in 
payments, against the risk of unduly inconveniencing or delaying legitimate payment 
requests and I wouldnt have expected it to interrogate Mr C. I also acknowledge that the 
main perpetrators here are the fraudsters. But overall, I think appropriate questions should 
reasonably have been asked in this case, and if they had been Mr C wouldnt have wanted 
to go ahead or, if he did, Barclays couldve declined to follow his payment instructions. Either 
way, I think the scam couldve been prevented from the £20,000 payment instructed on        
3 September 2018, as could Es loss from this point.
Considering everything, I think the fair and reasonable outcome here is for Barclays to 
reimburse all disputed transactions that occurred from and including 3 September 2018.
In the circumstances, I dont need to go on to consider whether Barclays acted with care and 
urgency in trying to recover the money E lost from 3 September 2018. But I have considered 
whether it could have done more to recover the £5,000 payment instructed on                     
13 August 2018 and I dont think it could. Barclays contacted the receiving banks soon after 
the scam was reported to it on 8 April 2019 and received advice that no funds remained in 
the beneficiary accounts.
Ive thought about whether E should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. Ive seen the brochure and other literature C sent to Mr C about the company 
and the investment opportunity, and Ive looked at the written communication between them. 
Ive also thought about the explanation Mr C has given about why he was persuaded that C 
was genuine and decided to go ahead and invest with it. Overall, I can see why Mr C was 
taken in, and I dont think it was unreasonable. But Ive seen that Mr C received a first 
Gazette notice for compulsory strike-off in late January 2019, and hes said he became 
suspicious about C at this point. I think it would have been prudent for him to have done 
more to reassure himself that C was a genuine company offering a genuine investment 
opportunity here. By his own admission, he simply spoke to C for reassurance and then 
continued to send it money. In the face of the information hed received from CH, I dont 
think this was a reasonable course of action. And I think Mr C should certainly have done 
more to protect E from financial harm when he discovered that C had been operating 
fraudulently in mid-February 2019. Again, by his own admission, he did not contact Barclays 
to report the fraud or request its assistance until 8 April 2019, after he had paid more money to T from Es account in an attempt to recover the money lost to C. I dont think this was a 
reasonable course of action either. In the circumstances, I think that E should bear 50% of 
the loss its incurred from 5 February 2019  the point that it shouldve done more to protect 
itself.
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive provisionally decided to uphold this complaint in part.
Where I uphold a complaint, or uphold a complaint in part, I can award fair compensation to 
be paid by a financial business of up to £160,000, plus any interest that I consider 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
I think that fair compensation in this case should be calculated as follows:
Barclays should refund all the disputed transactions instructed from and including the 
£20,000 payment on 3 September 2018.
Barclays can deduct 50% for contributory negligence from all the disputed 
transactions from and including the £49,999 payment instructed on 5 February 2019.
Barclays should pay 8% simple interest on each payment refund from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Barclays can deduct the £4,762.75 Mr C says E has already recovered from its total 
reward.
My provisional decision is that Barclays should pay E the amount produced by the 
calculation above  up to a maximum of £160,000, plus interest.
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more than £160,000, I 
recommend that Barclays pays E the balance. I assume that Barclays will be willing to do 
this as it has already made a counter-offer in excess of £160,000, but this recommendation 
will not be part of my determination or award. Barclays does not have to do what I 
recommend, but I would be grateful if it could let me know whether it intends to do so in 
replying to my provisional decision.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs C told us again where the funds theyd lost had come from and reiterated the 
profound impact the fraud has had on their lives. They said that the scammers were 
unbelievably convincing, professional and knowledgeable  they were convinced that this 
sophisticated scam was a genuine investment opportunity. Finally, they expressed their 
hope that Barclays would pay compensation in line with the calculation of fair compensation 
Id set out.
Barclays said it had no additional points to raise, and it confirmed its willingness to settle the 
complaint in full, in line with my recommendation, unrestricted by monetary limits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has disagreed with my provisional decision. Nor have they given me any new 
information that I havent already had the opportunity to consider, or that would change my 
mind. As such, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional 
decision.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part.
Where I uphold a complaint, or uphold a complaint in part, I can award fair compensation to 
be paid by a financial business of up to £160,000, plus any interest that I consider 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
I think that fair compensation in this case should be calculated as follows:
Barclays Bank UK PLC should refund all the disputed transactions instructed from 
and including the £20,000 payment on 3 September 2018.
Barclays Bank UK PLC can deduct 50% for contributory negligence from all the 
disputed transactions from and including the £49,999 payment instructed on              
5 February 2019.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay 8% simple interest on each payment refund from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Barclays Bank UK PLC can deduct the £4,762.75 Mr C says E has already recovered 
from its total reward.
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay E the amount produced by the 
calculation above  up to a maximum of £160,000, plus interest.
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more than £160,000, I 
recommend that Barclays Bank UK PLC pays E the balance. This recommendation is not 
part of my determination or award. Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to do what I 
recommend  but I hope that it will, having already indicated its willingness to do so. Its 
unlikely that E can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr and Mrs C 
may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision on 
Es behalf.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman