DRN-2697223
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim she made under her commercial 
property insurance policy for damage caused by a tenant.
What happened
Mrs T made a claim to Aviva after she discovered damage to her property. Shed rented it to 
a tenant whod used it to grow cannabis. Aviva investigated the claim and said it wasnt 
covered by the policy because the property wasnt in use as a commercial unit.
Mrs T referred her complaint to this service. An investigator initially upheld it but ultimately 
considered Aviva had acted fairly when it declined the claim. Mrs T disagreed, so her 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused accidentally or by malicious persons. Aviva seems to 
have accepted the damage was caused in one of these ways. But its declined the claim by 
relying on a policy term, which says:
whats not covered damage in any premises, part of any premises, or individual 
commercial unit or residential unit, which is Unoccupied.
The word Unoccupied is defined in the policy to mean:
Any premises, part of any premises or residential unit or commercial unit, that for a period 
exceeding 45 consecutive days is:
(a) Not occupied or
(b) Untenanted or
(c) Empty or no longer in use
Mrs Ts property is made up of a commercial unit on the ground floor and a residential unit 
above. At the time of the damage, the policy only covered the commercial unit. Afterwards, 
Mrs T added the residential unit onto the policy. She notes Aviva agreed to add it at no extra 
cost, so it didnt consider it posed any extra risk. And she says it was a genuine oversight of 
hers not to include the residential unit on the policy earlier. Effectively Mrs T says that means 
it would be fair for Aviva to consider the claim as if the residential unit was insured at the 
time of the damage.
Even if I were to agree with that, I dont think it would make a difference. The policy term 
quoted above means that if the commercial unit alone was unoccupied, untenanted or not in 
use, then the term Aviva has relied on would apply.
Avivas main point is that the commercial unit is a pub. And it was closed and shuttered from 
the start of the tenancy, late September, until the damage in December, which is more than 
45 consecutive days. So Aviva argues the commercial unit wasnt occupied or in use.
I understand the tenancy agreement was for the entire property, so it included both units, but 
the tenants lived in the residential unit only  and thats where the cannabis was grown. The 
photos Ive seen show the inside of the pub was empty, with no indication of anyone living in 
it or using it as a pub or any other type of commercial enterprise. So whilst the pub may have 
been tenanted, Im not satisfied the tenants occupied it or used it as a pub. 
Mrs T has explained that access to the residential unit is through the commercial unit. She 
questions whether using the stairs in the commercial unit to access the residential unit above 
means the commercial unit was in use. Im not satisfied it does. The pub was empty and Im 
not persuaded it would be fair to say that occasionally walking through a part of it to access 
the residential unit would mean it wasnt empty, was occupied and in use.
I understand the tenants have acted outside of the tenancy agreement. And they havent 
treated Mrs Ts property in the way she expected or intended. But Avivas policy is clear that 
it doesnt cover this type of damage when the property  or either of the units within it  has 
been unoccupied for a length of time. Because of that, Im satisfied it was fair for Aviva to 
decline the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman