DRN-1612682
The complaint
Mr S complains that Creation Financial Services Limited wont refund to him the money that 
he's claimed for a car that he says wasn't of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr S bought a used car in March 2019. The price of the car was £6,780 and he part-
exchanged a car which had a value of £5,878. He used his Creation Financial Services 
credit card to pay a deposit of £250 to the dealer and then the balance of £800 (as he paid 
£49 for a two year warranty and an admin fee of £99).  
The engine management warning light came on in April and May 2019 and both times Mr S 
returned the car to the dealer where it was repaired without further charge. The car broke 
down in July 2019 and Mr S called out a recovery service. He then part-exchanged the car in 
August 2019 for a new car with another dealer for a value of £4,200 - which he says was 
£2,728 less than he'd paid for the car. 
He complained to the dealer and then claimed that amount from Creation 
Financial Services under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It said that there was 
no evidence to confirm that car was faulty when it was bought by Mr S. He wasnt satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He couldn't say that 
there had been a breach of contract or misrepresentation about the car that was bought by 
Mr S so he thought that Creation Financial Services was correct to reject his claim. 
Mr S has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that:
the car had proven to be unreliable on three separate occasions within the first 
four months so he wasn't willing to take the risk of keeping hold of a depreciating 
asset which would then add to his financial loss;
the car wasn't fit for purpose or of satisfactory quality and the three faults related to 
its primary function (whether or not they were linked); and
he's been treated unfairly and is out of pocket as a result.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold Mr Ss complaint about Creation 
Financial Services, I must be satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the dealer and that Creation Financial Services' response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ss claim 
under section 75 as only a court would be able to do that.
There would be a breach of contract by the dealer if the car wasn't of satisfactory quality 
when it was bought by Mr S. Whether or not it was of satisfactory quality at that time will 
depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the price that 
was paid for it. Mr S bought a car that was five years old, had been driven for 41,500 miles 
and had a price of £6,780. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the 
components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but 
exactly how long that time is will depend on a number of factors. 
The first issue with the warning light occurred about a month after the car was bought by Mr 
S and the dealer says that it related to a leaking intake system seal which was repaired 
without charge. The second issue with the warning light occurred about a month after the 
first issue and the dealer says that it related to a blocked map sensor which was also 
repaired without charge. 
The third issue occurred about two months after the second issue - so about four months 
after Mr S had bought by the car. The breakdown report shows that there was a fault code 
and recommended further investigation and the dealer says the fault code was unrelated to 
the other issues.
Mr S complained to the dealer but then part-exchanged the car towards the cost of a new 
car from another dealer and the car had a value of £4,200 - which he says was £2,728 less 
than he'd paid for the car.
I've seen no evidence to show that the issue that caused the fault code in July 2019, and the 
car to go into idle mode, was present when Mr S bought the car. The breakdown report 
shows that the car's mileage at that time was 45,724 miles - so in the four months that he'd 
had the car he'd been able to drive more than 4,000 miles in it.
The car had passed an MOT test in March 2019 - before it was bought by Mr S - and there's 
no independent evidence to show that the car was faulty when it was bought by him or that it 
wasn't of satisfactory quality at that time. I can understand Mr S's disappointment and 
frustration because of the issues that he's had with the car - and for the loss that he incurred 
when he part-exchanged it in August 2019. But I'm not persuaded that there's enough 
evidence to show that the car wasn't of satisfactory quality when it was bought by Mr S or 
that there's been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the dealer.
I consider that Creation Financial Services' response to Mr S's claim has been fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances. So I find that it wouldn't be fair or reasonable for me to 
require it to refund to him any of the money that he's claimed - or to take any other action in 
response to his complaint.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I don't uphold Mr S's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman