DRN-1592551
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) handled a claim 
they made on their home emergency insurance policy.
Mr Cs represented by Mrs O.
What happened
Mr Cs fridge-freezer had a fault. So Mrs O made a claim on Mr Cs home emergency 
insurance policy. An engineer was appointed to investigate the issue and diagnosed that the 
fridge-freezer needed new parts. However, on the day the engineer was due to carry out the 
repair; he didnt arrive when Mrs O had expected. Communications broke down and 
ultimately, the engineer didnt return to carry out the repair. 
Mrs O complained about the service shed received. She felt D&Gs call handlers were rude 
and she didnt get call backs as promised. She and Mr C asked for a different engineer to 
carry out the repairs. But the original engineer was reallocated the job and refused to come 
back out to do the repairs.
D&G told Mr C it wouldnt be able to carry out the repairs. So it suggested that Mr C should 
call out an engineer and claim back the money for repairs up to a limit of £150. It recognised 
that thered been errors in the way itd handled the claim and that itd provided poor service. 
It offered Mr C £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr C and Mrs O got a quote for call-out costs and labour which was more than the limit. So 
they didnt go ahead with the repairs. They also had a washing machine which they felt 
might need a repair, but they didnt make a claim because theyd lost confidence in D&G. 
They werent happy with the compensation Mr C had been offered and asked us to look into 
their complaint.
D&G reviewed the complaint following our request for information about it. As the cost of 
repairing Mr Cs fridge-freezer would exceed £150, D&G agreed to replace it in line with the 
policy terms and conditions. It paid Mr C a cash settlement of £282 to buy a new model. 
Our investigator thought the compensation D&G had offered Mr C was fair. He 
acknowledged D&G hadnt handled calls with Mrs O as well as it mightve done. But overall, 
he felt D&G had acted in line with the policy terms and conditions. And he thought £100 was 
fair compensation. He also confirmed with D&G that if Mr C wanted to make a claim on his 
policy for his washing machine, it would be able to send out an alternative engineer.
Mrs O disagreed on Mr Cs behalf. She felt D&G had made more than one failure, itd treated 
her badly and £100 wasnt fair compensation to recognise its mistakes.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think D&Gs offer of compensation is fair. Ill explain why.
First, while Ive summarised the background to this complaint, Id like to reassure Mr C that 
Ive carefully considered everything he and Mrs O have said and sent us.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Cs home emergency insurance policy. It 
provides cover if an appliance breaks down for D&G to either repair it, replace it or cash 
settle the cost of it. 
The policy states that only engineers approved by D&G will be authorised to carry out 
repairs. But it also says: If we authorise a repair but are unable to find an engineer, well 
permit you to   use your chosen engineer. You will have to pay them and claim the cost back
from us. Please keep a copy of your invoice to send to us. If we permit you to use your 
chosen engineer and the proposed repair is estimated to cost more than the repair authority 
limit: £150.00, then you must ring the repair authority line o
The policy also explains the circumstances in which an appliance will be replaced. It says:
 In some situations we will arrange to replace your appliance instead of repairing it (for 
example where we cannot repair it or we decide that it is uneconomical for us to repair your 
appliance). In these circumstances, we will arrange to replace your appliance with one of a 
same or similar make and technical specification.
In this case, after Mrs O reported the initial fault with her fridge-freezer, D&G did appoint an 
engineer to visit Mr Cs home. It was intended that hed carry out the repairs to the fridge-
freezer. Its unfortunate that communications between Mrs O and the engineer broke down. 
Mrs O found the engineer rude and the engineer felt Mrs O had shouted at him. Theres no 
record of what was said by either party and so I cant safely say whats most likely to have 
happened. What is clear is that Mr Cs fridge-freezer wasnt repaired on the day it shouldve 
been as a result of this breakdown in communications.
So Ive thought about whether D&G met its policy obligations at this point. Im aware there 
was some delay in D&G keeping Mr C updated about what was happening between 20 
September and 4 October 2019. And that they told Mrs O they wouldnt be sending out an 
engineer. But it did let Mr C and Mrs O know that they could call out their own engineer to 
get the repairs done and claim the money back. This was in line with the policy terms. As the 
size of the quote exceeded D&Gs limit, Mr C decided not to go ahead with getting the 
repairs done by the third-party engineer.
This meant Mr Cs fridge-freezer was still faulty until D&G agreed to cash settle the claim. 
But it seems to me that if the appliance had totally failed and was unusable, Mr C wouldve 
opted to go ahead with getting the repair done and sought to recover the costs. And I think 
D&G gave Mr C a fair choice to use his own engineer and claim the costs back, which hed 
chosen not to do. 
D&G ultimately cash settled the claim based on the cost of replacing Mr Cs fridge-freezer 
with a model of a similar specification. Im satisfied this was reasonable and in line with Mr 
Cs policy terms.
Ive then turned to think about the compensation D&G offered Mr C. I dont doubt how 
frustrating Mr C and Mrs O found dealing with their claim and that it mustve been upsetting 
when they learned that a) the same engineer had been given the repair job and b) that D&G wouldnt be sending out a new engineer. I also think D&G let Mr C down when it didnt call 
Mrs C back and I dont think one of the call handers was as helpful as they couldve been. 
So I think its appropriate for D&G to recognise that its made mistakes and to offer 
compensation.
Having thought about everything, I think £100 is fair to recognise the impact D&Gs handling 
of the claim had on Mr C. I appreciate Mrs O doesnt think the compensation goes far 
enough. But its important I point out that generally, as a free service, well only award 
compensation to the policyholder  not to representatives for their time or service. Im 
satisfied £100 is fair compensation to recognise Mr Cs trouble and upset.
starMy final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that D&Gs offer of settlement is fair.
I direct Domestic & General Insurance Plc to pay Mr C £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman