DRN-2523858
The complaint
Mr S complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited wont refund to him the money that 
hes paid under a fixed sum loan agreement for an HGV driving course.
What happened
Mr S entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Omni Capital, that he electronically 
signed in September 2016, to pay for an HGV driving course. The course was described in 
the loan agreement as: Full Cat C and Cat C+E training with initial CPC and Pass 
Protection Retest and cost £4,597 which Mr S agreed to repay by a repayment of £128.78 
and then 47 monthly repayments of £128.83. He also paid a deposit of £230.
Mr S says that he failed the medical that was required for the course so couldnt take the 
course and stopped paying for it. His debt was transferred to a debt recovery agent and a 
default was recorded on his credit file. Mr S complained to Omni Capital in December 2019 
but it said that he hadnt contact the course provider within 180 days of the course 
commencement with evidence of his failed medical so no refund was possible and the 
default on his credit file was a true reflection of his account status.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He said that he hadnt seen any 
literature or the terms and conditions of the course that advised that Mr S had to contact the 
course provider within 180 days. He also said that the course provider couldnt say for 
certain that Mr S had passed his medical. He said that it was clear that Mr S had not had the 
benefit of the course and he wasnt persuaded that he was liable for the course fees. He 
recommended that Omni Capital should: waive the outstanding balance on the finance 
agreement; refund any monthly payments made (with interest); and remove any record of 
the finance agreement from Mr Ss credit file. 
Omni Capital has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in 
summary, that:
Mr S has advised that he received his provisional licence from the DVLA but he 
wouldnt have been able to obtain a licence if he did not pass his medical;
the course providers terms and conditions state that if a customer does not pass the 
medical they need to send the DVLA letter to the course provider within 180 days 
and it will cancel the course but Mr S never produced a letter; and
Mr S took three years after the loan went live to contact it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr S used credit in the form of a fixed sum loan agreement with Omni Capital to pay 
for the training course;
in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr Ss complaint about Omni Capital, I must be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the course provider and 
that Omni Capitals response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable 
 but Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ss claim under section 75 as only a 
court would be able to do that;
this is a finely balanced complaint as theres little evidence to show what happened 
and the course provider has stopped trading;
Mr S says that the medical was arranged by the course provider so it would have 
received the result of it and Im not persuaded that its likely that he would have 
agreed to pay £4,597 for the course, taken the medical and then not started the 
course unless hed failed the medical;
Mr S hasnt been able to provide any documentary evidence to show that he failed 
the medical but Omni Capital hasnt provided any documentary evidence to show 
that he passed the medical;
there doesnt seem to be any dispute that Mr S didnt start the course or that hes 
received no benefit from it  and the course provider has stopped trading so is no 
longer able to provide the course to him;
Mr S cancelled his direct debit for the loan repayments in about March 2017 and 
stopped making payments to Omni Capital  it transferred his debt to a debt 
collection agency in January 2018  and a default has been recorded on Mr Ss 
credit file;
our investigator recommended that Omni Capital should waive the outstanding 
balance on the finance agreement, refund any monthly payments made (with 
interest), and remove any record of the finance agreement from Mr Ss credit file  
and Mr S has said that hes happy with that outcome;
I consider that the investigators recommendations are fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances, and I find that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld and that Omni 
Capital should take the actions described below. 
Putting things right
I find that Omni Capital should refund to Mr S the monthly repayments that hes made to it 
under the fixed sum loan agreement (with interest) - but not the deposit of £230 that he paid 
to the course provider for the course. I find that it should then waive the outstanding balance 
of Mr Ss account and end the fixed sum loan agreement at no cost to Mr S.
I find that it should also remove any information about the fixed sum loan agreement from 
Mr Ss credit file.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and I order Omni Capital Retail Finance 
Limited to:
1. Refund to Mr S the monthly repayments that hes made to it under the fixed sum loan 
agreement.
2. Pay interest on that refund at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of each 
payment by Mr S to the date of settlement.
3. Waive the outstanding balance of Mr Ss account and end the fixed sum loan 
agreement at no cost to Mr S.
4. Remove any information about the fixed sum loan agreement that its recorded on 
Mr Ss credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Omni Capital to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 2 above. Omni Capital must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman