DRN-1820249
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain about the charges Qmetric Group Limited applied when they 
cancelled their motor insurance policy. Mr H is a named driver on his wifes policy. He says 
they were given a misleading quotation.
What happened
Mr Hs policy taken through Qmetric was renewed. Mr H then wanted to change his car and 
found a quote on Qmetrics online system. He bought his new car and called Qmetric to 
complete the purchase. But the premium increased because Mr H hadnt noticed that the 
incorrect purchase date for the car had been inputted automatically. This led to an increase 
in premium and Mr H didnt want to pay this, so he decided to cancel his policy. But Qmetric 
said this would incur fees of £150.09.
Mr H was unhappy with this. Qmetric persuaded the insurer to waive its pro rata admin 
charge. Qmetric waived its cancellation fee as it hadnt called Mrs H as it said it would. This 
left Mr H to pay its non-refundable renewal arrangement fee and legal option extra, totalling 
£53.68.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr H 
had made an honest mistake in not noticing the incorrect purchase date on the online form. 
But he thought Qmetric had given Mr H sufficient warning to check that his details were 
accurate. Mr H thought the length of time hed owned the car wasnt relevant. But the 
investigator thought it was the insurers underwriting criteria that had increased the premium. 
So he didnt think Qmetric was responsible for this. And he thought Qmetric had fairly 
applied the cancellation fees and then reduced them. He thought it was entitled to ask Mr H 
to pay £53.68 by the policy terms and conditions.
Mr H replied that he thought nothing on the application page should be pre-populated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Hs frustration but Im unable to uphold his complaint. Ill now explain 
why I think this. 
Mr H thought Qmetric shouldnt pre-populate its online form. But I think its for Qmetric to 
decide what systems and processes it uses as this is its commercial decision. So this isnt 
something Ill comment on. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the 
brokers acted in line with the terms and conditions of its Terms of Business and fairly and 
reasonably.
Mr H said hes driven hundreds of cars and never had any problem like this before. He 
thought the purchase date was a minor detail that shouldnt affect the premium.
As our investigator has already explained the increase in premium was made by the insurer 
based on its underwriting criteria, not by Qmetric. Qmetrics online system is used for 
information gathering. It doesnt have access to its panel of insurers underwriting criteria. So 
if Mr H is unhappy with the pricing of his policy, he should complain to the insurer.
Some of Qmetrics online form was completed automatically through a link to the DVLA 
database. This drew down the purchase date for the car that Mr H intended to buy. But this 
was the last owners purchase date, not Mr Hs. Ive seen a screenshot of the warning that 
Qmetric provided to tell consumers to check the details were accurate. So I think it wasnt 
responsible for the wrong purchase date being used in the quote Mr H obtained.
I think Qmetrics Terms of Business explains that the renewal arrangement fee and the legal 
option fee are non-refundable. I also think it clearly states the cancellation fee that would 
apply. I think these terms and conditions are clearly set out in the renewal documents Mrs H 
received. 
Mrs H had renewed their policy and the 14-day cooling off period had elapsed. So I think 
Qmetric was entitled to apply the cancellation fees. I think it reasonably waived its own 
cancellation fee in acknowledgement of its error in not calling Mrs H before Mr H cancelled 
the direct debit. I also think it reasonably persuaded the insurer to waive its own pro-rata 
admin fee. But I think its entitled by the policy terms and conditions to ask Mr H to pay its 
non-refundable fees totalling £53.68.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman