DRN-2055919
The complaint
Mrs H complains because Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) hasnt paid a 
claim under gadget insurance policy
What happened
The details of the complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, I will 
explain why.
In declining the claim Assurant has relied on the following terms:
If you dont take care of your gadget then we may not pay your claim.
Taking care of your gadget means 
If you need to leave your gadget somewhere then we expect you to lock it away out of sight 
if at all possible. If you cannot lock it away, then you must leave it with
someone you trust or concealed out of sight in a safe place.
Having reviewed the terms and conditions I can see they go on to say:
If you knowingly leave your gadget somewhere you cant see it, but others can, we may 
decline your claim for not taking care of your gadget  for example:
 leaving your gadget on display in your car
I have also reviewed Mrs Hs claim form. This state: I left my orange bag on the back 
seat of my car. Mrs H goes on to explain that her laptop was inside the orange 
bag.  Since bringing the complaint to our service, Mrs H has explained, she cant be 
certain where she left the bag, whether this was on the back seat or the footwell of 
the back seat. However, the claim form was completed on 15 March 2020 and Mrs 
Hs laptop was stolen on 10 March 2020. So, on balance, I think Mrs Hs recollection 
of events would be clearer at the point of her completing the claim form. 
Mrs H also states her car has tinted windows and I have reviewed evidence which 
shows this. While it appears that Mrs Hs rear windows are indeed tinted to some 
extent, but the front windows are not, so there is some visibility into Mrs Hs car.
In Mrs Hs claim form it says that when she returned to the car her back left-hand 
side window was smashed and all her bags we taken.
So on balance, as Mrs Hs items were in the back of the vehicle and the third party 
used the back left hand window as point of entry, its most likely items were visible in 
the car.
This means I think Assurant is entitled to turn down Mrs Hs claim, and I dont think it 
has been unfair or unreasonable in doing so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman