DRN-4107848
The complaint
Mr K has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) lent to him irresponsibly and that he should 
never have been granted an overdraft. Mr K wants his overdraft debt written off.
 
What happened
Mr K successfully applied online for an overdraft with a limit of £200 on 11 June. This was 
increased on the same day to £1,200 and the following day to £2,500. Through cash 
withdrawals and online transfers Mr K spent up to his limit as soon as the overdraft was 
granted. 
On the 13 June Mr K and his father contacted TSB and explained Mr K had some 
vulnerabilities one of which meant he was unable to manage money. On receipt of this 
information TSB put an interest freeze on the account and went through his income and 
expenditure so he could pay back the overdraft. It also added its control service to the 
account. 
Mr K complained to TSB that it shouldve never granted him an overdraft. TSB said based on 
the checks it did both internally and externally and on the information Mr K had provided 
about his income and expenditure that it was satisfied the lending was affordable. TSB has 
confirmed Mr K has never paid any interest or charges for the use of his overdraft.
Mr K disagreed and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ks complaint and thought that TSBs checks went far 
enough. So Mr K has now asked that his complaint be progressed for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I will not be upholding Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. But for complaints about funds which shouldnt have been provided this isnt straight 
forward as the funds were provided and, in most cases  such as here, have long since 
been spent.
So we look to try and find some other way to put things right. And where a business 
increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should have 
realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd 
be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This means wed 
normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the 
point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. 
In this case, after reviewing Mr Ks overdraft applications, bank statements and other internal 
information TSB holds on Mr K, while I think there were some questionable transactions on 
Mr Ks statements, Im not persuaded there was enough information to say that TSB 
shouldnt have granted him an overdraft. 
But I dont think this matters, as TSB have already done what Id expect it to do to put things 
right  as outlined above - had I found it had made a mistake in its lending decision. TSB has 
not charged any interest or fees on the overdraft, so no refund is due. Furthermore, it has 
gone through Mr Ks income and expenditure so assist him in repaying back the overdraft 
and added the control service to his account to assist him in managing his money going 
forward. All of this is in-line with what Id recommend.
Mr K has an outstanding balance on his overdraft and is unhappy with this, but TSB has 
done what Id expect it to do. That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own 
particular merits. And while we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a 
lender to put things right where it provided credit it shouldnt have, we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr K says TSB should do something different here. He says he had a poor credit record and 
was on benefits and the overdraft was unaffordable. 
Ive thought about what Mr K has said. And what hes said is a reason for upholding his 
complaint rather than a reason for departing from our normal approach to putting things right 
in cases such as his. Mr K has never been charged for his overdraft usage, so what Mr K is 
left with to repay are the funds which he used and benefitted from and I dont agree that he 
shouldnt pay this back.  
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that regardless of whether I upheld Mr Ks complaint 
he would be in the same position and Im not persuaded TSB did anything wrong. So Im not 
requiring TSB to do anything more.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint against TSB Bank plc.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman