DRN-3443362
The complaint
Miss E complains that Funding Circle Ltd failed to carry out sufficient due diligence to ensure 
a company she lent to was creditworthy. She also says that Funding Circle failed to ensure 
the information made available about the loan was clear, fair and not misleading.  
What happened
Miss E held a crowdfunding account on Funding Circles peer-to-peer lending platform. It 
was an automated account where loan parts were allocated to Miss E based automatically 
based on set criteria  including risk profile. Miss Es account had a balanced risk profile, 
meaning she could be allocated loans across the full range of risk categories (A+ to E rated 
loans).
Miss E was allocated a loan in a company I shall refer to as Company A in April 2018. Miss 
E complained to Funding Circle in March 2021 following the loan becoming bad debt. She 
said Funding Circle failed in the way it carried out due diligence on the borrower before 
allowing her to invest in the loan. Specifically, she raised concerns over creditors listed in 
Company As 2017 accounts and queried whether Funding Circle had asked for a copy of 
Company As 2018 management accounts before approving the loan. 
Funding Circle didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said that no issues were identified 
throughout the underwriting and funding process of the loan. With regards to due diligence, it 
said its credit analytics team have developed a risk model built on a complex structure that 
analyses a very large range of data. Much of the information sourced is from credit agencies 
and data suppliers, and the information supplied by the borrower is then used to support this. 
Funding Circle explained that it reviewed flagged checks relating to significant loans out to 
directors of Company A. It said that despite significant advances to directors, an amount of 
£250,391 was repaid during the 2016-2017 accounting year leaving a £168,177 outstanding 
balance. Funding Circle also said that Company A's management accounts for the year 
ending 31 March 2018 were not requested, as a lending decision was made in April 2018 
soon after the year's end.
Miss E didnt accept the response, so referred her to complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. In summary, he said:
He obtained the financial information and the accounts Funding Circle gathered from 
Company A in order to carry out its due diligence. This included accounts for the year 
ending 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2017, as well as three months worth of 
business bank statements prior to approving the loan.
He was satisfied that there was nothing within the financial documentation which 
would indicate that there were any issues with the borrower or that it was 
inappropriate for the loan to be acquired on Miss Es account. 
He noted Miss Es comments that Funding Circle should have obtained more recent 
accounts but at the time of the loan being approved, the accounts for the year ending 
31 March 2018 had not yet been filed with Companies House. Therefore, had 
Funding Circle obtained these accounts from Company A, it wouldnt have been able 
verify these. And so it was reasonable for it to use the latest accounts that had been 
filed i.e. account ending 31 March 2017. 
He was also satisfied the financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2017 
confirmed that there was a figure of £125,631 in relation to 'Creditors: amount falling 
due after more than one year'.
Hed also considered the bank statements obtained and saw nothing within them that 
would lead him to say that Funding Circle failed to act in the best interest of all 
parties when the loan was made available on its platform.
Although Miss E queried the financial information displayed by Funding Circle 
regarding the borrower, as the loan was purchased via the automated lending tool, 
she wouldnt have reviewed any information before investing in the loan. As such he 
didnt believe this information would have had a bearing on whether or not the loan 
parts were allocated to her account.
Miss E didnt agree with the investigators findings. She highlighted extracts from Funding 
Circles website about requirements for borrowers applying for loans. These include that 
management accounts may be requested, depending on the age of the most recently filed 
accounts. She questioned how old filed accounts had to be before Funding Circle should ask 
for management accounts. She said the published information on Funding Circles website 
gave her the right to believe that accounts as old as the ones used by Funding Circle to 
approve the loan would be supplemented by more up to date management accounts.
Miss E didnt accept the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope Miss E doesnt take it as a discourtesy that I wont be responding to each submission 
or every point she has raised. The purpose of my decision isnt to do that, but rather to 
explain my findings on the key issues. The crux of Miss Es complaint is about the due 
diligence Funding Circle undertook before allocating a loan to her peer-to-peer lending 
account. Essentially, she believes failings in the due diligence led to her being allocated a 
loan that she shouldnt have.
In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account the wider regulatory obligations on Funding 
Circle. Funding Circle is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to follow are 
set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance. 
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in 
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The 
most relevant principles here are: 
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly. 
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading. 
Funding Circle was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are: 
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client. 
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
Ive also borne in mind that the FCAs consultation papers on loan-based and investment-
based crowdfunding platforms  including the refences to the due diligence expectations 
placed on platforms. 
As explained above, the loan subject to this complaint was added to Miss Es account as 
part of the automated loan allocation process. This means she didnt select the loan after 
reviewing a promotion for it. As such, Im not considering whether she was provided with 
clear, fair and not misleading information before deciding whether to invest. Instead, my 
decision focuses on whether Funding Circle acted in her best interests by allowing the loan 
to be available for allocation to her. Included whether it performed sufficient due diligence on 
the loan before allocating it to her account. 
Miss E has raised concerns about the use of the year ending 31 March 2017 accounts by 
Funding Circle as part of its due diligence. She says that it should have obtained more 
recent management accounts and it shouldnt have allocated the loan to her until Company 
A produced up to date accounts. She believes obtaining recent accounts would have either 
changed the risk level of the loan or led to it not being allocated to her account. Shes also 
made references to information on Funding Circles website that indicates that it may also 
request management accounts from borrowers, depending on the age of the most recently 
filed / formally prepared accounts. 
Funding Circle has explained that it used the the most recent accounts filed at Companies 
House, which were for the year ending 31 March 2017 (in addition to those for the year 
ending 31 March 2016). It also said it obtained further credit related information which meant 
it used up to date financial information to allow it to ascertain Company As current levels of 
affordability before it accepted the loan. 
Whilst I accept that Funding Circle could have asked for more recent accounts, I dont think 
this means Funding Circle acted unfairly by using the 2017 accounts as part of its due 
diligence. Its correct that the accounts it obtained were 13 months old by the time the loan 
was accepted, but these were the most up to date filed accounts. The 2018 accounts werent 
filed with Companies House until December 2018. So, I think the approach taken was 
reasonable when considering Funding Circles obligations to investors. 
Miss E has also raised concerns Funding Circle didnt accurately reflect the outstanding 
loans Company A had through the due diligence completed. She has referred to the financial 
summary included on the loan profile on Funding Circles website. She says this didnt show 
there were any outstanding loans but the up to date management accounts would have 
showed that Company A had increased its level of borrowing.
Firstly, I think it is worth reiterating that Miss E didnt self-select this loan to invest in after 
reading a promotion for the loan on Funding Circles website. Rather, it was allocated to her 
account using the function of the automated lending tool. So Im satisfied it cant be said she 
relied on the information she now highlights before investing. Funding Circle says the accounts it relied on showed that Company had outstanding amounts falling due after more 
than one year of £125,631. Ive reviewed the information Funding Circle collated about 
outstanding liabilities and Im satisfied the information displayed on the financial summary 
does reflect the financial statements Funding Circle obtained from Company A. And for the 
reasons Ive explained, I think it was reasonable for it to rely on this information when 
accepted the loan on the platform. 
I have considered the points Miss Es makes about the information on Funding Circles 
website about obtaining management accounts. However, I note this information isnt 
produced for investors but is aimed to provide information to potential borrowers on the 
platform. So it doesnt directly relate to Funding Circles obligations towards investors. It also 
only says management accounts may be requested. But in any case, I dont think the 
references to the possibility of requesting management accounts means Funding Circle has 
failed to act in Miss Es best interest by not requesting them as part of its due diligence of 
this loan. 
Ive also considered Miss Es concerns regarding Company As loans to its directors. 
Funding Circle says that it conducted credit checks on directors of Company A prior to 
approving the loan but unfortunately, copies of the credit searches conducted are no longer 
available. In the absence of seeing these, its difficult to say with any certainty whether these 
searches flagged any issues. So I have to base my decision on the evidence available to 
me. Funding Circle has explained that despite significant advances to directors, an amount 
of £250,391 was repaid during the 2016-2017 accounting year leaving a £168,177 
outstanding balance. The year ending 31 March 2017 accounts confirm this and Ive also 
seen that the year ending 31 March 2016 accounts show that the director repaid £301,688 of 
£389,296 advanced in the previous year. So on balance, Im persuaded that the director was 
making repayments and Ive not seen anything which suggests that Funding Circle had 
concerns regarding the repayment of the directors loans.
Having reviewed the circumstances of this loan and the relevant evidence, I dont find that 
Funding Circle is responsible for the losses Miss E has incurred. Ive found that Funding 
Circle did act in a fair and reasonable way when allocating to the loan to her account.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman