DRN-2942528
The complaint
Ms P has complained about Calpe Insurance Company Limited because it settled a third-
party (TP) claim made against her motor insurance policy, which she denied liability for, and 
then asked her to reimburse its outlay.
What happened
Ms P received a call from Calpe on 30 July 2020. It said it had been notified that she had 
collided with a parked and unattended car. Ms P spoke with Calpe and denied being 
involved in the accident, she agreed for Calpe to inspect her car. But after receiving a 
request from it to provide documentation and when she received the call to arrange the 
engineers assessment of her car, she became concerned she was being scammed. She 
then refused to cooperate with Calpe. 
Calpe warned Ms P that if she did not cooperate it would cancel her policy. When Ms P told 
Calpe she wasnt worried about cancellation but she did not want Calpe to defend her in 
respect of this action anymore, Calpe said it would proceed as normal.
In the meantime Calpe had an engineer inspect the TPs car. It was confirmed that it was 
showing signs of light impact damage consistent with the report of the accident. It was felt 
this would cost £1,128 to fix. Calpe decided that as Ms P wasnt cooperating it would settle 
the TP claim. It did this within three weeks of notification of the incident and with cancellation 
of the policy still pending. 
The next day Ms Ps father called and explained she felt shed been scammed. Calpe 
explained this was not the case and that it had settled the claim. Her father said Ms P had 
never been to the location of the accident. Calpe said there was no evidence in this respect 
and all Ms P could do would be make a complaint. But, Calpe told Ms P that, as long as it 
received the documentation it had requested, the policy wouldnt cancel. Ms P provided the 
documentation within a week and later made a complaint.
In a final response Calpe said it had settled the claim on a without prejudice basis which it 
had had to do because Ms P hadnt cooperated with it. It said, whilst she did not accept 
liability for the accident, it hadnt seen any evidence from her to support that position. Ms P 
was unhappy and so complained to us.
Our investigator, having seen Calpes file submission for the claim and complaint, asked 
Calpe how or why Ms P had been alleged as the driver at fault for the accident when the TP 
car was noted as being unattended. Calpe said it had been told that a witness to the 
accident had left a note on the TP cars windscreen which identified Ms Ps car as having 
collided with the TP car.
Our investigator asked Ms P to provide him with any evidence she had showing her 
whereabouts on the day, and at the time, of the accident. She was able to provide data from 
social media  photos and supporting metadata  showing her and her phones location at 
the time of the accident. She was in a totally different town, some distance away. Our 
investigator sent this data to Calpe and asked if it changed things. Calpe said it did not 
because as the claim had been settled, it couldnt be unwound. It also said that merely 
showing the phones location, or even where Ms P likely was, did not show where her car 
was. It said it might have been able to investigate all of this  but Ms P had breached the 
terms of the policy by not cooperating with it and, in so doing, had forced its hand to settle 
the claim. 
Our investigator felt that, in light of the fact that Ms P had not cooperated with Calpe, he 
couldnt reasonably uphold her complaint. Ms P asked for an ombudsmans consideration 
and when the complaint was referred to me, I felt it should be upheld. My provisional findings 
were:
 
whilst I have some sympathy with the position Calpe found itself in, I dont think it acted 
fairly and reasonably. Ill explain my views below and what I think Calpe needs to do now.
 
Ms P was in a contract with Calpe for her motor insurance. This is an important contract and 
Ms P, as a driver of a car, should have been aware of which company provided her cover 
and what her obligations were as a policyholder, as set out by the policy. So whilst 
I understand that Calpes contact did worry Ms P, her responses to Calpes entirely 
reasonable requests for her cooperation were not helpful and contributed to the awkward 
position Ms P now finds herself in.
Under the policy Ms P was required to cooperate with Calpe. And if she didnt it was entitled 
to cancel her policy. So, whilst this, in the end, did not happen, Calpe was entitled to warn 
Ms P this might happen if she didnt provide the documentation it needed. 
The policy also allows Calpe to settle claims on behalf of Ms P, in the way it sees fit. So, 
strictly speaking, Calpe didnt need Ms Ps agreement or acceptance of liability to settle this 
claim. Under the policy, when and how it settled was its choice to make. 
However, this service requires all insurers to use their entitlements afforded by policy terms 
in a fair and reasonable manner. To do that an insurer needs to think about, amongst other 
things, the impact on its policyholder of its actions. Ms Ps policy has whats known as an all 
sections excess. The terms of that policy mean that for any claim made against it, including 
a claim from a third party, Ms P would have to pay an excess of up to £3,000 towards the 
cost of the claim.
Here, Calpe knew the cost of the claim and that settling this with the TP insurer would leave 
Ms P liable to it for the full settlement amount, as that was below £3,000. It would also mean 
she had a fault claim on her record. Calpe also knew there was limited detail linking Ms P to 
the accident, and Calpe wasnt at any time, after first notification of the claim, chased for 
payment or action by the TP. Nor did the TP threaten action against Calpe/Ms P if liability 
wasnt accepted. Im also mindful that whilst Ms P wasnt cooperating with Calpe, there were 
some simple enquiries it could have made, to see whether or not Ms P might be liable. Such 
as asking for proof from the TP that Ms P/her car had been involved, for example by 
provision of the note allegedly left by the witness. 
I think Calpe could also have been clearer with Ms P about what would happen if she 
continued not to cooperate with it. It was clear it would cancel the policy if she did not do so. 
But it wasnt clear with her that it would also settle the claim. When Ms P said she didnt 
want it to defend her, Calpe should have said something like if you wont help us defend it, well have to settle it  which means youll be liable and youll have to pay us £XXX. Instead 
Calpe said it noted her instruction and would proceed as normal in relation to this matter. 
Ms P isn't an insurance professional and I understand shes not familiar with how the claims 
process would work. So I dont think Ms P could reasonably have been expected to know 
from what Calpe said that it intended to settle the claim; recording her as having been liable 
for the accident and asking her to pay it over a thousand pounds. I understand why Ms P 
was shocked when just two weeks later, three from the date Calpe was notified of the TP 
claim, Calpe wrote and told her it had settled the claim and she owed it £1,128. I think Calpe 
acted unreasonably by not making appropriate minimum enquiries, not being clear with Ms P 
and in settling matters so fast.
Its of note to me that when Calpe was clear with Ms P about cancelling the policy unless 
she cooperated, Ms P began to do so. In fact within a week she had provided Calpe all the 
evidence it had asked for. And her father had also told it, just the day after it had made the 
settlement payment, that she hadnt ever been in the location of the accident. But Calpe said 
as it had settled the claim there was nothing it could do. I dont think that was strictly true. 
Because Calpe had settled on a without prejudice basis it could have re-opened the claim 
and began investigating it. But it chose not to. I think it acted unreasonably in this respect.
Ms P has, when asked by our investigator, been able to provide quite compelling evidence 
that she did not drive into the TP car because she was nowhere near the location of the 
crash. This was evidence that could have been available to Calpe if it hadnt acted so quickly 
and unreasonably to settle matters. I accept it doesnt show conclusively where Ms Ps car 
was, and its possible someone else could have driven it. But theres no evidence or 
suggestion that is likely what happened, so it remains no more than just a possibility. On 
balance, and given Calpe hasnt investigated the matter, I think its reasonable to conclude 
that Ms Ps established location at the time of the accident means she cant fairly be held 
liable for it.
I concluded by saying that to put things right Calpe should amend the claim record to one of 
non-fault and stop chasing Ms P for reimbursement of its settlement outlay. But, I said, if 
Calpe wanted to look to recover that outlay from the TP insurer and needed her help to do 
so, she should assist it.
Ms P said she felt the outcome was fair.
Calpe said it disagreed with my findings. In summary it said:
Ms P was given every opportunity to cooperate but she made it clear that she would not 
be doing so.
Ms P mocked its efforts to gain her assistance and demanded it stop contacting her.
It had, on several occasions, warned Ms P of what would happen if she failed to 
cooperate.
It doesnt feel its fair to say that once Calpe was clear with Ms P about cooperating she 
began to do so, it was only when it asked for the excess payment that she began 
cooperating.Its unclear what could have been achieved if it had re-opened the claim as it had settled 
it to a private individual from whom recovery of its outlay would have been unlikely.
Ms Ps lack of cooperation trumped any need for it to otherwise assess the validity of, 
and its/Ms Ps liability for, the third-party claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally and will acknowledge again, Ms Ps actions in the early stages of this 
claim did not assist Calpe. I think that she herself is at least partly responsible for the 
situation she found herself in.
However, and having considered Calpes response to my provisional decision, I also 
maintain that it did not handle this claim fairly and reasonably. I remain of the view that it 
missed a very good opportunity during its email discussion with Ms P to be clear and direct 
with her about what would happen next. I think if it had done so, she would have cooperated 
earlier. But, as I said provisionally, Calpe, in my view, didnt just fail Ms P in this respect. 
I explained that I also felt Calpe had acted prematurely to settle the TP claim and without 
completing even some simple enquiries. Ms Ps lack of cooperation was unhelpful but didnt 
mean there was no way for Calpe to validate the claim or no likely prospect for it 
successfully defending it. I also maintain there was no real hurry in this case  an insurer will 
want to settle claims quickly to mitigate losses. But here theres no indication that the losses 
would be increasing, and no pressure or chase from the TP insurer had been applied. 
Its worth noting, not least as it explains Calpes response to my provisional decision that it 
settled the TP claim to an individual (rather than another insurer), that Calpe was the TP 
insurer in this case. It provided the insurance for the TP claimant as well as being the insurer 
for Ms P. So when it settled the TP claim, payment was made to the TP policyholder, rather 
than another insurer. That can sometimes happen in an insurance scenario. And it doesnt 
necessarily mean that a conflict of interests arises. But, in this case, Im not persuaded that if 
another insurer had made this claim to Calpe, Calpe would have acted so quickly and 
without question to settle it, even given Ms Ps lack of cooperation. And if the claim had been 
re-opened, Calpe could have disputed its initial outlay and sought recovery from the other 
insurer. In the circumstances here, I dont think it would be reasonable for Ms P to lose out 
just because Calpe itself settled the TP claim (so has little to no prospect of recovering the 
settlement paid).
Putting things right
Im satisfied that its too late now to say Calpe should re-open the claim and investigate it. 
The passage of time has likely prejudiced the chance of any clear evidence being available. 
But Im also satisfied that its not fair for Ms P  despite her initial failure to cooperate with 
Calpe as the policy required her to do  to be left with a fault claim on her record and owing 
Calpe over a thousand pounds. I think Calpe should amend the record of the accident to 
non-fault and cease chasing Ms P for re-payment of the £1,128.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe Insurance Company Limited to provide the redress 
as set out above at Putting things right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman