DRN-4306698
The complaint
Mr A complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has failed to refund £10,200 he 
lost to a safe account scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr A fell victim to a safe account scam on 18 May 2022 when he made two payments to a 
new payee from his RBS account. He sent a payment of £8,600 at 11:07 followed by another 
payment of £1,600 at 12:25. This was following a phone call from what Mr A believed to be 
his bank, but was in fact a scammer, who said that his account had been compromised and 
his money was at risk. Mr A later discovered he had been scammed, and RBS refused to 
refund the money he had lost.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought it was likely that Mr A had 
authorised the payments from his device but didnt think he had a reasonable basis for 
believing the payee was legitimate. The investigator also said that Mr A had chosen the 
incorrect reason for making a payment, which would have prevented RBS from providing an 
effective warning. As a result, she didnt think it was required to refund the payments under 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). Mr A disagreed, so the matter was 
escalated to me to determine.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in August 2023. I said I was minded to 
uphold it and set out the following reasons:
Mr A initially claimed that he didnt authorise the payments as he downloaded 
Anydesk onto his phone, which then enabled the scammers to make the payments 
from his mobile banking app. But RBS has shown that the payments were made via 
Mr As Apple device, and Anydesk would have only allowed screen sharing from an 
Apple device. So, it seems unlikely the scammers would have been able to gain 
control or remote access of his device and make the payments without him knowing. 
Mr A later said that he was panicked, and everything has become a blur. He said he 
was confused with Face ID coming up, and that he was not sure how the payments 
were being made. But he has also said that he remembers the scammer referring to 
a dummy account for his money to be sent to. Given Mr A would have likely been in 
control of his device  and given he was aware of money being moved to a dummy 
account  I consider it more likely than not that he was aware that payments were 
being made from his account. And Im satisfied he likely authorised these payments 
himself, albeit I accept this would have been under the instruction of the scammers 
under the guise of keeping his money safe. 
Our investigator considered RBSs liability to refund the payments under the CRM 
Code (which RBS is signed up to) and concluded that no refund was due, as it could 
rely on two of the exceptions for reimbursement. And having reviewed the evidence, 
Im satisfied that at least one of the exceptions would apply as I dont think Mr A had 
a reasonable basis for believing the payee to be genuine, for reasons which Ill go on 
to explain. But even if RBS could also rely on the second exception regarding its 
provision of an effective warning under the Code, Im satisfied RBS still ought to have 
prevented the scam in line with normal APP considerations and its obligations 
outside of the Code. Ill explain why.
I am satisfied there were enough triggers in this case to have alerted a responsible 
regulated bank such as RBS that Mr As account was being subjected to unusual and 
uncharacteristic activity. The first payment Mr A made as part of the scam was for 
£8,600 at 11:07, followed by a second payment of £1,600 at 12:25. The largest 
payment Mr A had made from his account in the 12 months leading up to the scam 
was for just over £5,000, which was made to a regular payee that he often sent 
money to. So, when he came to make a payment of £8,600 to a new payee, this 
marked a significant escalation in the value of payments that were considered normal 
for Mr As account, such that it should have been considered unusual and 
uncharacteristic. Im therefore satisfied there were reasonable grounds for RBS to 
suspect a fraud or scam, and therefore justify an intervention (such as phoning him in 
order to ask discreet questions about the nature and purpose of the payments). 
If RBS had contacted Mr A and questioned him about the payment, it would have 
likely discovered that he had been speaking to who he thought was his bank and that 
he was being told to move his money to a safe account, which RBS would have 
immediately recognised as a scam. RBS could have told him that it had not 
contacted him with any such instructions, and Im satisfied the scam would have 
likely been revealed and any loss prevented. So, but for RBSs failure to act on clear 
triggers of potential fraud or financial harm, Mr A would probably have not lost his 
money. I therefore intend asking it to refund both payments he lost as part of the 
scam.
Contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still 
take responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000). Ive considered whether Mr A could fairly 
be held partly responsible for his loss, and Im satisfied he should share blame for his 
loss in these circumstances.
I understand that safe account scams are often successful because they create a 
high-pressured situation where the customer feels inclined to act quickly to protect 
their money. But even in this context, a customer would still be expected to question 
whether the caller was genuine until theyd been given enough reason to believe they 
were.
In this case, Mr A has said that he believed the caller to be from his bank simply 
because they knew his name, phone number and who he banked with. I dont think 
this is enough in itself to believe that the caller was genuinely phoning from his bank, 
as this information could have potentially been obtained from other sources. There is 
also the fact that Mr A thought he was paying a dummy account yet must have seen 
that he was actually sending money to an individual named Danut Cristescu. But it 
doesnt seem that he questioned this either. 
As a result, Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for compensation to be 
reduced by 50% as a result of Mr As negligence that contributed to his loss.I invited further comments and evidence from both parties in response to my provisional 
decision. Both RBS and Mr A responded accepting my proposal. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both parties are in agreement with my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions set out above. 
It follows that I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc to:
Refund both payments Mr A made as part of the scam, less a 50% deduction in 
recognition of his contributory negligence. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount from the date of loss until the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman