DRN-3822420
The complaint
Mr H and Ms M are unhappy with the service they received from Bank of Scotland plc,
trading as Halifax, surrounding the declining of attempted payments on a debit card.
What happened
Mr H attempted to make payments on his Halifax debit card, but the transactions were
declined. Mr H went into a Halifax branch where the issue appeared to have been resolved,
but after leaving the branch and attempting to use the debit card he found that transactions
were still being declined. Mr H contacted Halifax about the ongoing issue on several further
occasions, but the issue continued to remain unresolved, even after Mr H had been sent a
new debit card and new PIN number by Halifax. Mr H wasnt happy about this, so he raised
a complaint.
 
Halifax looked at Mr Hs complaint. They explained that their records surrounding the
attempted transactions appeared to show that the PIN number hadnt been entered
correctly, which was the reason the transactions had been declined. Halifax arranged to
reset the PIN number on the new debit card that had been sent to Mr H, and they made a
payment to him of £50 as a good will gesture.
 
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so he referred the complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that there was anything
in the information provided to this service which suggested that Halifax had acted unfairly
towards Mr H and Ms M or done anything wrong, such that the complaint could reasonably
be upheld.
 
Mr H and Ms M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 October 2022 as follows:
On 18 December 2021, a payment for £100 was attempted using a debit card 
associated with Mr H and Ms Ms joint current account with a card number ending 
2447. The payment was unsuccessful on three occasions, each of which Halifaxs 
internal systems record as being because of an incorrectly inputted PIN. Notably, 
successful transactions were undertaken using this card both before this date, on 1, 
3, and 6 December, and after this date, on 13 January. Unusually, this specific debit 
card shows as being listed in both Mr H and Ms Ms names on Halifaxs systems.
 
On the same date, the same £100 transaction was also attempted using a different 
debit card associated with the same joint account. This card number ended in 8858 
which again unusually is also shown on Halifaxs systems as being assigned to both 
Mr H and Ms M. This attempted transaction was also unsuccessful, although 
Halifaxs systems list the reason for this as being unknown.
 
A few days later, on 20 December 2021, Mr H visited a Halifax branch about the 
issue and explained that he was certain that he wasnt using the wrong PIN. A 
Halifax staff member unblocked the PIN on Mr Hs debit card and Mr H then went to 
a supermarket to purchase food but found that his card was again declined, both 
contactless and when he input the card into the card reader and tried to use his 
recently unblocked PIN.
 
Mr H then returned to the Halifax branch at which time it was noticed by Halifax that 
Mr Hs card ending 2447, which was personalised with his name, was in fact 
showing as being in Ms Ms name on their systems. Halifaxs staff member noted that 
this couldnt be corrected, and so ordered a new card and PIN for Mr H.
 
Investigation notes from Halifaxs systems recorded that same day note that Halifax 
consider the card ending in 2447 to be assigned to Mr H while the card ending in 
8858 was assigned to Ms M. However, as noted above, another of Halifaxs 
systems show that both of these cards are listed as being assigned to both Mr H and 
Ms M, and a Halifax staff member had noted that Mr Hs card, ending 2447, was 
appearing on their systems as belonging to Ms M. Halifaxs system notes also 
confirm that both cards had previously been blocked and had to be reactivated.
 
It shouldnt be the case that debit cards are assigned to both parties on a joint 
account. Instead, both Mr H and Ms M should have had individual debit cards with 
card numbers assigned solely to them.
 
As such, it seems more likely to me than not that there was some form of error on 
Halifaxs systems which resulted in the two debit cards being incorrectly being 
assigned to both Mr H and Ms M, and that this contributed to the attempted 
transactions on those cards being declined  potentially because both Mr H and Ms 
M would hold and use a different PIN on what Halifaxs systems recognised as being 
essentially the same card.
 
A few days later on 22 December 2021, the previously attempted transaction for 
£100 was re-attempted, again using the debit card ending 8858, and again the 
attempts were unsuccessful. Halifaxs systems record two attempts and show the 
first as being unsuccessful for an unknown reason and the second as being for an 
incorrect PIN.
 
Throughout their testimony to this service, Mr H and Ms M have maintained that they 
havent used an incorrect PIN, and I also find it difficult to reasonably conclude that 
Mr H and Ms M would have inputted an incorrect four digit number on so many 
occasions.
 
That being said, its notable that following being sent a new debit card with a card 
number ending in 0019  which Halifaxs systems do show as being associated with 
the joint account but being assigned solely to Mr H  an attempted transaction for 
£29.43 was declined on this card, which Halifaxs systems record as being the result 
of an incorrectly inputted PIN.
 
Given that this card does show as being correctly assigned to only one person, I feel 
that this declined transaction was most likely the result of an incorrect PIN inputted 
by Mr H. However, given that Halifaxs notes show that Mr H was ordered a new card 
and PIN by the staff member he spoke with in branch, and also another new PIN shortly afterwards by a Halifax complaints investigator with whom he spoke, I can 
understand how Mr H may have inputted the wrong newly received PIN. And its my 
understanding that Mr H has received another new debit card and PIN following this 
incident, which again I note that Halifaxs systems show as being assigned correctly 
solely to his name.
 
Ultimately, I do feel that its more likely than not that the issues that Mr H and Ms M 
have experienced here are the result of an error made by Halifax surrounding the 
incorrect assigning of the two debit cards ending 2447 and 8858, rather than by a 
repeated series of errors by Mr H and Ms M. And it follows from this that Ill be 
provisionally upholding this complaint and instructing Halifax to make a further 
compensation payment of £350 to Mr H and Ms M, increasing the total compensation 
amount to £400, which I feel more fairly compensates Mr H and Ms M for the trouble 
and upset that theyve incurred here.
 
In arriving at this compensation amount Ive considered the considerable time and 
effort that Mr H and Ms M have had to expend trying to rectify this situation, as well 
as the inconvenience and embarrassment that Mr H has described at having in-store 
purchases declined.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr H and Ms M, and Halifax, the opportunity to 
provide any comments or new information they wanted me to consider before I moved to a 
final decision. Halifax confirmed they were happy to accept my provisional decision, while Mr 
H and Ms M did not respond. As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding 
this complaint in Mr H and Ms Ms favour on the basis explained above. And I can confirm 
that my final decision is that I do uphold this complaint on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Halifax must make one payment of a further £350 compensation to Mr H and Ms M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman