DRN-3452517
The complaint
Mr S complains that Metro Bank PLC refused to investigate a number of transactions he 
didnt recognise.
What happened
On 21 June 2021 Mr S became aware of two transactions he didnt recognise which were 
made on 7 March 2020. Mr S asked Metro to investigate the matter and refund him.
Metro told Mr S that they were unable to look into the matter because Mr S had waited too 
long before informing them of the problem. Metro referred to their terms and conditions 
which explained that Mr S had to notify them about such transactions within 13 months of 
the date of the event.
That meant that Mr S should have notified Metro before 7 April 2021 about the two disputed 
transactions. Mr S explained that he didnt use the account very often and hadnt noticed the 
transactions.
When Metro declined Mr Ss refund, he brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our adjudicators who thought 
it was reasonable for Metro to rely on the 13-month rule. Mr Ss complaint wasnt upheld.
Mr S disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review, commenting that the 
pandemic had affected the situation, and this hadnt been taken into account.
Mr Ss complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S explained that hes lost a considerable amount of money due to the two disputed 
transactions and thinks its unreasonable to rely on the 13-month rule.
The rule that Metro rely on is found in the Payment Service regulations 2017 (PSRs) and it 
states:
74.(1) A payment service user is entitled to redress under regulation 76, 91, 92, 93 or 94 
(liability for unauthorised transactions), only if it notifies the payment service provider 
without undue delay, and in any event no later than 13 months after the debit date, on 
becoming aware of any unauthorised or incorrectly executed payment transaction.
Metro can only rely on this exclusion if its contained within the terms and conditions of the 
account opened by Mr S. Metro have supplied those terms and the relevant section is 
present. So, Im satisfied that Metro can rely on the exclusion where its appropriate.
The exclusion can be overridden if I think there are applicable reasons for doing so. Having 
looked at the situation, Mr S explained he didnt use the account much and the pandemic 
caused problems,  the way it closed the country and banks for months. 
Whilst I accept that the pandemic caused significant disruption to many industries, I dont 
think Metro were particularly different to any other bank. Whilst Im sure some services were 
affected, they continued to provide services throughout the pandemic. 
Looking at Mr Ss usage of his account, there were five transactions that took place between 
7 March 2020 and 2 March 2021. One of them was for a large sum and all transactions were 
faster payments. I recognise the account wasnt used a great deal, but there were several 
occasions throughout the 13-month period that Mr S could have notified Metro about the 
disputed transactions. 
So, I dont think that the pandemic itself is reason enough to say the exclusion was applied 
inappropriately and Mr Ss use of the account is evidence that Metro were providing a 
service during this period.
That means that I dont think the position Metro has taken here is unreasonable. Mr S was 
using Metros banking facilities, so I think he should have been aware of the two disputed 
transactions on his account. The overall timescale in which to raise a dispute is contained in 
the terms and conditions of the account here. That means that I think its fair for Metro to 
have not refunded him. Ive also considered whether there are any grounds to consider that 
it might be fair and reasonable to say that Section 74 of the PSRs shouldnt apply here. But 
for the reasons Ive given above, I dont think there are.
It follows that I wont be looking at whether the two disputed transactions were authorised 
because they were reported outside the 13-month time limit.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman