DRN-2395896
The complaint
Mr N complains about Clear Legal Marketing Limited and the success fee they are charging 
him for a successful PayDay loan claim. Mr N doesnt think they made it clear how much 
they would charge if a claim was successful.
What happened
Mr N instructed Clear Legal to submit a claim against a PayDay loan company, who Ill refer 
to as Q, in March 2019.
Clear Legal submitted a claim on Mr Ns behalf in June 2019. Q wrote to Mr N and Clear 
Legal in August 2019, offering Mr N a total refund of £3,042.75. Shortly after, Clear Legal 
invoiced Mr N for their success fee of £1,095.39. But Mr N was unhappy about this, so he 
raised a complaint.
Mr N complained about the fee Clear Legal were charging. He didnt think theyd made the 
fee information clear to him when he initially signed up for their services. And he didnt think 
the fee was a fair representation of the work theyd completed during the claim. So, he didnt 
think the fee should be payable and wanted it refunded to him.
Clear Legal didnt agree. They thought theyd made their fees clear to Mr N on several 
occasions. And at no point had Mr N attempted to cancel their services. So, they thought the 
claim they submitted on his behalf had been successful and for this reason thought theyd 
acted fairly when invoicing him for their success fee, in line with the terms of the agreement. 
So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr N remained unhappy, so he 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He recognised Mr Ns 
concerns about the website used. But he explained hed seen screenshots of the information 
Mr N wouldve seen at the time. And hed seen the client care letter Clear Legal sent to Mr N 
after hed instructed them. He thought within this the fees were made reasonably clear. And 
he didnt think Clear Legal had done anything wrong by charging a fee of that percentage as 
they were entitled to do so. So, he didnt think Clear Legal needed to do anything more.
Mr N didnt agree. He didnt think the website he used was clear. And he thought hed 
progressed the claim himself once he had realised this was possible. So, he thought hed 
completed the work needed to secure a successful claim and because of this didnt think it 
was fair for Clear Legal to charge their fee. As Mr N didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this situation has had on Mr N. As Mr N received a 
sizeable refund from Q, I think this meant that Clear Legals fee was more than Mr N was 
expecting to pay. And because of this, I can understand why he was concerned about this. 
Especially when he felt hed been speaking to Q directly. But the agreement Mr N entered 
into was no win no fee. So, Clear Legals fee doesnt need to be representative of the work 
they complete. The success fee is a fixed fee, taking a percentage of any successful claim. 
The higher the refund received, the higher the fee Clear Legal will charge. 
So, for me to say Clear Legal did something wrong, Id need to be satisfied the fee 
information wasnt made reasonably clear to Mr N when he instructed them. Or that the work 
they completed was of no value to Mr N and his claim. And in this situation, I dont think 
thats the case.
Ive seen Mr N initially instructed Clear Legal on 4 March 2019. And Ive seen the agreement 
he signed electronically on this date. The agreement explains If you win your claim, we are 
entitled to deduct 30% + VAT from your compensation, in respect of our legal fees. 
Ive also seen a screenshot from the website Mr N used which explained just before he 
submitted his claim to Clear Legal that the agreement is 100% no win no fee, so you have 
nothing to lose. We will only ever deduct 36% (30% + VAT). If your claim is successful. If 
your claim is not successful then we will not charge you a penny. 
So, I think Clear Legal made it reasonably clear on the day Mr N instructed them that a fee 
would be charged if the claim was successful. Although I recognise it does state 100% no 
win no fee, I think that Clear Legal explained this only related to unsuccessful claims. By 
submitting the claim to Clear Legal, I think Mr N agreed to the agreement set out by Clear 
Legal. And this included their 30%+VAT fee for a successful claim. So, I dont think it would 
fair for me to say the way they set out their fee information was unfair nor unreasonable at 
this point.
Ive also seen the client care letter Clear Legal sent to Mr N on 3 April, after hed instructed 
them. This letter again set out the fee information and explained Mr N had the opportunity to 
cancel the agreement if he didnt wish to continue. I cant see that Mr N did this. So, while I 
recognise Mr N may have communicated with Q directly, I think he did this while being 
aware that Clear Legal had already been instructed to work on his behalf. And because of 
this, I dont think it would be fair to say Clear Legal arent able to charge their fee because of 
this. I think it was Mr Ns own decision to complete this work, and in doing so prevented 
Clear Legal from doing so. 
So, I think Clear Legal set out their fee information clearly and reasonably. And because of 
this, were entitled to charge Mr N a success fee for any successful claim that resulted from 
the work they completed. So, Ive then considered whether the work Clear Legal did 
complete was of value.
Ive seen Clear Legal submitted the claim to Q in June 2019. And I can see that when Q 
issued their final response with an offer in August, it was sent to both Mr N and Clear Legal. 
This satisfies me that Q recognised Clear Legal and Mr Ns representative on the claim. And 
that the successful claim was generated from Clear Legals submission. Because of this, I 
think Clear Legal were entitled to charge their success fee, in line with the terms of the 
agreement. And Ive seen the success fee was 30%+VAT of the total refund Mr N received, 
so it did fall in line with these. Because of this, I cant say that Clear Legal have done 
anything wrong and so, I dont think they need to do anything more.I understand this isnt the outcome Mr N was hoping for. But I hope this decision goes some 
way to explaining why I think Clear Legal acted reasonably when invoicing him for a success 
fee and brings some closure to his concerns.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint about Clear Legal Marketing 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman