DRN-2885172
The complaint
This is a complaint that Santander UK Plc mis-sold Mrs and Mr T payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1990.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr T disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why. 
Mrs and Mr T say that they previously had a complaint upheld about the mis-selling of their 
1990 endowment mortgage. They say this PPI was sold as part of the same package and 
was also mis-sold. Mr T says:
As we were first time, and rather nave buyers, and had no option but to go with the 
endowment policy in order to secure a reduction in interest rate I took the advice of 
the [Santander] representative and also signed up to the contents insurance and 
PPI In retrospect it is now manifest that I should not have been sold the 
sickness/redundancy plan (PPI) due to my employment status (secure employment 
and generous sick pay). I had misgivings at the time but took the advice of 
[Santander] that I should take the full package including PPI and contents insurance 
in order to secure the low cost starter mortgage 
Im here looking just at the sale of the PPI, though I can understand why Mrs and Mr T would 
cite their experience with the mortgage as evidence of general poor practice. However, even 
if the advice on the mortgage was wrong, it doesnt necessarily mean that the advice about 
the PPI was also wrong. 
When Santander recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr T, it had to make sure it was suitable 
for their needs. If it wasnt suitable, this could be a reason for saying the PPI was mis-sold. 
But, from what Ive seen, I think it probably was a suitable recommendation. I say this 
because:
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mr T (the person covered by the policy) was eligible for the policy, so would 
have been entitled to make a claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr T received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer  it would have paid out for up to 36 months which 
is likely to have been much longer than Mr Ts employer full sick pay, even it that was 
a generous scheme. Mr T has said he was unlikely to have been made redundant in 
his particular public-sector job  and I think thats probably true at the time. But it 
wasnt impossible and, if it actually happened, the PPI would have paid 
unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. So the PPI could have put 
off the time when Mrs and Mr T would need to fall back on any savings or other 
means they may have had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all 
would have put Mrs and Mr T in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost 
income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mrs and Mr T couldnt afford the PPI when they 
took it out. And they could have cancelled the policy if this changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr T would 
have been affected by any of these.
So the PPI was potentially useful, and I dont see that it was wrong for Santander to have 
recommended it. It would then be up to Mrs and Mr T to decide whether they wanted to 
accept the recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Mrs and Mr T have said that pressure was put on them to take the PPI  there was a hard 
sell and (judging from what Ive quoted above) they believed they had to take the PPI to get 
the mortgage deal. 
If this was true, it means Santander acted wrongly. But the problem I have, in making a 
decision on this, is that I couldnt know the exact words used by the adviser and the tone in 
which they were said. Nor do I know what the documents used at the time said, about the 
choices they had  this did happen about 30 years ago, and so its not surprising none of the 
original documents have been found. 
Also, it wouldnt be surprising if someone didnt remember all the detail of what was said so 
long ago  but it does mean I dont know how much weight fairly I can put on what they now 
remember.  
It isnt necessarily wrong to strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, 
even if the adviser is partly motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually 
something worth having. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have no real 
sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be sure 
exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say Santander did something wrong unless I 
had stronger evidence of this  its a long-accepted principle that there has to be reasonable 
evidence against someone accused of wrongdoing, and they shouldnt normally have to 
prove that they are innocent.  
Overall, Ive dont have good enough evidence to say the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman