DRN-2529702
The complaint
Miss I complains that National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly declined her claim under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In May 2019 Miss I attended a promotional event which offered training materials and 
training courses which Miss I paid for that day. On receiving the materials she was unhappy 
and didnt attend the training course shed paid for. She contacted the Seller and said that if 
the matters were not resolved shed be seeking a refund of the £2520 shed spent on her 
NatWest credit card for the materials and course. The Seller responded that shed got all the 
materials shed paid for and was still welcome to attend the three-day course shed bought. 
Miss I says shed lost faith in the Seller, so she didnt attend the course. She then decided 
the Seller wasnt being cooperative. So she spoke to NatWest in order to try and get her 
money back. 
NatWest considered this and considered pursuing the matter through the separate 
processes of Chargeback and a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It 
concluded that there wasnt sufficient evidence of the materials and course not being 
available to Miss I. So it thought a chargeback would be unsuccessful. And as it didnt think 
a breach of contract had been made out or that Miss I had been misrepresented into the 
transaction it felt it couldnt refund Miss I for the cost of the transaction. It also raised 
questions about whether the necessary relationship was in place for S75 to apply.
Miss I felt that this was unfair, so she brought her complaint to this service. Our Investigator 
looked into the matter and noted that they thought the necessary relationship was in place 
for a S75 claim but agreed with NatWest that no breach of contract or misrepresentation had 
been made out. They also felt that Miss I hadnt lost out due to NatWests position regarding 
Chargeback. Accordingly the Investigator said that NatWest hadnt treated Miss I unfairly in 
not refunding the transaction at hand.
Miss I didnt agree and felt the Investigators position was incompetent and outrageous. So 
this complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Authorisation
Miss I has latterly pointed to issues around the transaction itself and explaining she doesnt 
think it should have been accepted by NatWest or that it should be refunded as it didnt go 
through a proper process. I say latterly because Ive considered the evidence available and I 
can see when she first wrote to the Seller she didnt raise this issue. She referred to I 
bought the special offer and so I paid in full on the day and after I paid the full amount. 
But there is no complaint about the legitimacy of the transaction itself. Shes said she 
handed over the card to the Sellers representative but was surprised to be told the 
transaction was complete. So she seems to be implying she didnt authorise the transaction. 
But if that was the case Id have expected her to complain about that at first opportunity. But 
the correspondence Ive seen between her and the seller shows she accepts she made the 
transaction but is complaining with regard to the goods and services supplied.
As Ive explained I can see she refers to making the transaction. And I note she accepts she 
handed over her card and paid for the goods and services she wanted to buy. I see shes 
made comments about how card transactions work and she didnt enter a PIN. But as 
NatWest has explained card transactions can happen in a variety of ways, some of which 
dont require PIN or a signature. Bearing in mind what happened here and what the parties 
have said Im satisfied on balance that Miss I did properly authorise the transaction at the 
time. And accordingly it should be allocated to her account with NatWest.
could NatWest challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Miss I 
does here, NatWest (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process. I 
dont think NatWest couldve challenged the payment on the basis Miss I didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.
NatWest is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. The Seller would then receive that chargeback request 
and may agree to refund the payment or may contest the chargeback. This back and forth 
can continue until ultimately the network provider (not NatWest) will then make an 
independent determination on the matter. So NatWest isnt solely responsible for the 
decision whether to refund or not when going through the chargeback process. And it can 
fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of 
success.
NatWest has said that as Miss I received the goods she bought and was able to book the 
training course and that there was evidence from the Seller suggesting for this to be done 
that a Chargeback wasnt a viable option for it. I take this to mean it didnt think any such 
Chargeback had a reasonable prospect of success. And considering what has happened 
here Im not persuaded there was a reasonable prospect of success. Accordingly I dont 
think Miss I has lost out here by NatWest not raising a chargeback. I think, on balance, it 
would have been unsuccessful if it had been raised.
Section 75
Here I must consider what NatWest should do. To do this, I have to decide what I think is fair 
and reasonable, having regard to, amongst other things, any relevant law. In this case, the 
relevant law is S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) which says that, in certain 
circumstances, if Miss I paid for goods or services on her credit card and there was a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the Seller, NatWest can be held responsible.
Historically credit cards worked within a commonplace three-party structure. Specifically that 
there was:
an agreement between the card issuer (the creditor) and the cardholder (the debtor) 
to extend credit by paying for goods or services purchased by the cardholder from 
suppliers who had agreed to honour the card; 
an agreement between the card issuer and the supplier under which the supplier 
agreed to accept the card in payment and the card issuer agreed to pay the supplier promptly;
an agreement between the cardholder and the supplier for the purchase of goods or 
services.
And accordingly this three-way relationship is often referred to as DCS as it represents the 
interrelationships between Debtor, Creditor and Supplier (the Seller as Ive referred to them 
as in this decision).
As time went by a new type of party entered the market and specifically these types of 
transactions, known as the Merchant Acquirer. This led to the creation of four party 
relationships where instead of the agreement being between the card issuer and the 
supplier, there were two agreements:
an agreement between the merchant acquirer and the supplier, under which the 
supplier undertook to honour the card and the merchant acquirer undertook to pay 
the supplier; and 
an agreement between the merchant acquirer and the card issuer, under which the 
merchant acquirer agreed to pay the supplier and the card issuer undertook to 
reimburse the merchant acquirer.
The impact of this development on the application of S75 was considered by the Court of
Appeal in the case of Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds & others [2006] (the OFT case).
The Court of Appeal first considered whether the introduction of the four-party structure
meant that the system had evolved significantly beyond the state of affairs to which S75 had
been directed. They concluded that it had not, stating at paragraph 55 of their judgment:
From the customer's point of view  it is difficult to see any justification for drawing a
distinction between the different [three-party and four-party] situations. Indeed, in the case of
those card issuers such as Lloyds TSB, who operate under both three-party and four-party
structures, the customer has no means of knowing whether any given transaction is
conducted under one or other arrangement. Similarly, from the point of view of the card
issuer and the supplier the commercial nature of the relationship is essentially the same:
each benefits from the involvement of the other in a way that makes it possible to regard
them as involved in something akin to a joint venture, just as much as in the case of the
three-party structure.
 They went on to say;
It is clear that, whether the transaction is entered into under a three-party or four-party 
structure, the purpose of the credit agreement is to provide the customer with the means to 
pay for goods or services. It follows that in both cases the card issuer finances the 
transaction between the customer and the supplier by making credit available at the point of 
purchase in accordance with the credit agreement. The fact that it does so through the 
medium of an agreement with the merchant acquirer does not detract from that because it is 
the card issuer's agreement to provide credit to the customer that provides the financial 
basis for the transaction with the supplier.
Having provided some important context to the circumstances in Miss Is case, I need to now 
establish the exact nature of what happened and the relation between the parties involved. 
The DCS issue
I have considered the particular facts of Miss Is case. In order for S75 to apply there has to 
have been arrangements between NatWest and the Seller to finance transactions between NatWests cardholders and the Seller. Its clear that there was no direct arrangement 
between them, but this isnt necessarily fatal to the application of S75.
I say this because the Judge who heard the OFT case at first instance ([2005] 1 All ER 843) 
had also considered the meaning of the word arrangements, as used in section 12, and 
whether there existed relevant arrangements between creditors and suppliers (the Seller 
here) in the four-party situation. She said that the use of the word showed a deliberate 
intention on the part of the draftsman to use broad, loose language, which was to be 
contrasted with the word
agreement. In the Court of Appeal, the creditors argued that arrangements should be given 
a narrower meaning that took the four-party structure outside the definition. But the Court of 
Appeal agreed with the Judge that arrangements had been used to embrace a wide range 
of commercial structures having substantially the same effect. They held it was difficult to 
resist the conclusion that such arrangements existed between credit card issuers and 
suppliers who agreed to accept their cards, and stated;
Moreover, we find it difficult to accept that Parliament would have been willing to allow some
consumers to be disadvantaged by the existence of indirect arrangements when other
consumers were protected because the relevant arrangements were direct.
Accordingly to arrive at a fair outcome I need to stand back and consider the whole network 
of arrangements that were involved in Miss Is transaction and, in particular, what the roles 
were of the other parties involved who werent the debtor (Miss I), the creditor (NatWest) and 
the supplier (the Seller as Ive referred to it).
Ive considered the card network rules regarding the scheme it operates which was used in 
this transaction. I note from its rules it describes a number of parties which may be involved 
in transactions and explains how it treats them and what their obligations are in relation to 
the network rules.
Is the DCS chain broken?
So our Investigator looked into matters primarily based on another party appearing in the 
transaction reference on Miss Is credit card statement. Ill call this party Firm S. Our 
investigator contacted Firm S and asked what its role was in the transaction. Firm S 
responded and said it acted as a Payment Processor. It also explained that the transaction 
had gone through a Merchant Acquirer (which I will call Company F) as well. So in this case 
there are five parties in the transaction-Miss I, the Seller, NatWest, Firm S and Company F.
Having considered what happened here and in conjunction with the OFT case Im satisfied 
that the presence of the Merchant Acquirer (Company F) doesnt break the DCS chain. But 
what about Firm S?
The High Court considered S75 in the case of Governor and Company of the Bank of 
Scotland v Alfred Truman (a firm) [2005] EWHC 583, (the Truman case). In this case the 
High Court held that its the nature of the role that each party plays and the nexus between 
the supplier (Seller here) and creditor thats the relevant consideration. I do not propose to 
recount all the details of the case here. However I would note the following; the Truman case 
involved the court considering a five-party structure in which the fifth party, had no 
contractual or other direct relationship with the relevant scheme. But it was held that it did 
not matter that the card issuers had no direct contractual or other relationship with the fifth 
party or that the card issuers had no idea of the existence of the fifth party. There still existed 
arrangements sufficient for the requisite DCS link which were not too tenuous.
In Miss Is case, I think there are stronger indications of relevant arrangements than those inthe Truman case given that Company F and Firm S were both independently, specifically 
and publicly in the business of processing or facilitating financial transactions. After all, in the 
Truman case one of the connecting parties was a solicitors firm who had the facilities to 
enable the transaction. The solicitors acted for the car company in the Truman case and 
provided a variety of legal services to them. The solicitors were only part of the transaction 
chain in the Truman case because it had a machine to take the payment. Their primary 
commercial offering was legal services, it was not in the commercial enterprise providing 
financial transactional services. 
Here Company F and Firm S are specifically and publicly in the business of providing a 
number of financial transactional services. The transactional services provided here by these 
parties are in effect those that have been outsourced to them by the parties here. And clearly 
the network had arrangements with Company F and NatWest would be able to know of 
Company F and its offering prior to the transaction in this case by dint of both being users of 
the network used here.
I would also note that both NatWest and the Seller undoubtedly benefit commercially
from the involvement of the other, through the intermediations of Company F and Firm S, in 
a way that makes it possible to regard them as in something akin to a joint venture. 
Specifically, by financing purchases from the Seller NatWest are able to lend money to their 
customer (Miss I) and make interest and/or other charges for that service, whilst the Seller is 
able to obtain payments from NatWests credit card holders and so benefit from the credit 
NatWest extended (albeit indirectly).
Ive not seen any persuasive evidence that the services provided by these intermediary 
parties in this case broke the DCS chain. Im also satisfied this transaction fits within the 
financial limits set out in relation to S75 claims as described in the Act. Accordingly Im 
satisfied the DCS chain is intact and a S75 claim can be successful if the other requirements 
are made out.
liability
As Ive explained for NatWest to be liable under S75 a breach of contract or a material 
misrepresentation needs to made out. Ive considered what Miss I has said, and Ive also 
had sight of the Sellers written communications with her. I note in the emails Ive seen there 
are some pertinent points which go to the heart of the matter.
Miss I says that on the 30 May 2019 she cancelled her contract with the Seller within the 14-
day cooling off period. Ive seen her credit card statement and I can see she made the 
transaction on the 18 May 2019. Ive considered her email of 30 May and I can see she that 
she asks for a response that day and if she hears nothing from the seller that day she will 
then seek a refund from it. I can also see that the Seller responded to this email within 
minutes. And I can see this conversation continues for some days until outside the 14-day 
window. So on balance Im not satisfied she actually told the Seller she wanted to cancel 
within the 14-days.
It also needs to be remembered here that my decision is solely about whether NatWest 
treated Miss I fairly or not in relation to its obligations under the Act. It is not about the Seller. 
And it isnt about whether the Seller treated her unfairly or not. This is a key distinction and I 
hope Ive made it sufficiently clear.
NatWest has said it isnt persuaded that there was a breach of contract or material 
misrepresentation here. And I can see that the Seller has explained how it provided 
everything it was due to provide to Miss I and that she could go on the course if she wanted to. And I note that Miss I has claimed for the costs of returning the goods she received to 
NatWest. So from what she said she accepts she received goods and sought to return them.
The Seller also explains that they video the promotional events that they put on including the 
one that Miss I attended. The Seller very clearly explains that the contentions that Miss I has 
made in regard to what was said (and that she suggests she relied on at the promotional 
event) arent supported by the video it has of that event and specifically with regard to what 
the speaker at the event did or didnt say. So Im not persuaded that there was a material 
misrepresentation here that Miss I relied upon. And clearly the materials were provided, and 
Miss I was welcome to attend the course and dates were suggested to her. So I dont think 
NatWest has treated her unfairly by deciding there was no breach or misrepresentation. 
Miss I points to what she says are unfair contract terms with regarding to cancelling the 
agreement. But bearing in mind I dont think she actually cancelled the agreement I dont 
think this makes a difference to NatWests position on the matter.
Miss I says there was aggressive selling at the event. But she doesnt complain about this 
when she contacts the Seller. And if shed been unfairly forced into a transaction she didnt 
want to make Id have expected her to try and unwind the transaction with NatWest at the 
first possible opportunity after leaving the promotional event. But she doesnt do this. She 
complains to the Seller about what shed received in relation to the transaction shed made 
and the quality of those goods and whether they were all the goods she says she thought 
she was buying. Its only sometime later does she raise this issue. So Im not persuaded by 
what Miss I says here.
Miss I makes the point she didnt attend the training course because she had lost faith in the 
Seller. But from what I can see the Seller made clear it had provided everything to her that it 
was due to. And I can also see that it tried to accommodate her by telling her that it had 
cancellations for a course and if she replied promptly she could attend that course if she 
wanted to. So it seems to me that the only reason Miss I didnt attend one of the Sellers 
courses is because she chose not to attend.
Lastly I can see that NatWest paid Miss I £20 in relation to how it handled her claim. Im not 
persuaded it has treated her unfairly in regard to this.
Having considered everything that has happened here Ive decided this complaint should not 
be successful. I say this because Im satisfied the transaction itself was properly authorised 
and applied to her account. I dont think she lost out by NatWest not doing a chargeback. 
And although I think the circumstances here mean a S75 could be successful Im not 
satisfied that there was a breach of contract or a material misrepresentation here which 
meant that NatWest should uphold her claim. Accordingly Im satisfied it hasnt treated her 
unfairly.
I appreciate that Miss I will be disappointed by my decision here. But unfortunately Im not 
persuaded by her representations when considered in light of the evidence available. 
Accordingly her complaint is not successful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman