DRN-3402785
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as G, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly blocked 
its bank accounts. 
One of Gs directors, Mr B, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
G banked with Barclays. It obtained a Bounce Back Loan of £41,000 from the bank in July 
2020.
On 31 October 2020, Barclays initiated a review of Gs accounts and its Bounce Back Loan 
application. The bank restricted access to the accounts while it did so, meaning that the 
company couldnt utilise the funds held therein. 
Barclays lifted the account restrictions on 15 December 2020.
Barclays subsequently decided to terminate the Bounce Back Loan facility. It used the funds 
held in Gs accounts to pay down the amount G owed. These actions are the subject of a 
separate complaint.
Mr B doesnt think Barclays acted fairly in blocking Gs accounts without notice or 
explanation. He also says the bank told him the review would take 15 working days, but it 
ended up taking much longer. Mr B says G was left unable to trade and its inability to meet 
its commitments damaged its reputation. He also says that matter had a significant impact 
on his own health and wellbeing.
Barclays says it reviewed and restricted Gs accounts in line with the applicable terms and 
conditions. It says it cant confirm how long such a review will take place and isnt required to 
give prior warning of such actions. 
One of our investigators reviewed Gs complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. In 
summary, he didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong in reviewing and restricting Gs 
accounts or that it had taken too long to complete the review. But he did think Barclays had 
made an error in advising Mr B that the review would only take 15 working days. For the 
inconvenience this had caused, he recommended that Barclays pay G compensation of 
£100. 
Barclays accepted our investigators view but Mr B didnt. He didnt think £100 was fair 
compensation for the impact of the matter on him and the company. So he asked that an 
ombudsman review the complaint and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to meet in providing banking 
services to its customers. Banks are required to keep accounts and their use under review, 
and may need to suspend access or services in order to do so. 
In addition to its broader legal and regulatory obligations, Barclays was also expected to 
keep matters relating to the Bounce Back Loan under review in line with its anti-fraud 
requirements under the government-backed loan scheme.
The terms and conditions of Gs accounts allowed Barclays to suspend its services. The 
bank wasnt required to notify G of this or of its decision to review its relationship with the 
company. So it was entitled to take the actions it did. And I think these actions were 
reasonable in the circumstances. Barclays had legitimate concerns over Gs eligibility for the 
Bounce Back Loan it had obtained and which the bank ultimately withdrew, as well as similar 
issues with another company to which G is linked through its owners. 
So I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in reviewing Gs accounts and restricting the 
companys access to them while it did so. It follows that there is no basis on which I could 
require the bank to compensate the company for any impact these actions had on G.
I can appreciate Mr Bs unhappiness with the time it took Barclays to complete its review, 
which was around seven weeks. Theres no set timeframe within which a bank must 
complete reviews or remove restrictions. I dont think Barclays took too long to conclude its 
review and remove the restrictions on Gs accounts in view of the circumstances.
Barclays did, though, make a mistake in advising Mr B that the review would be completed 
within 15 working days. That was not something it could guarantee and, in the event, it far 
exceeded this timeframe. I can see how this wouldve caused Mr B some inconvenience as, 
in relying on this information, he then followed up with the bank to chase progress when the 
15 days were up. At the same time, I think its highly likely he wouldve continued to maintain 
regular contact to chase progress anyway. Barclays has agreed to pay £100 compensation 
for the inconvenience caused by the incorrect information it gave and I think this is fair. 
Mr B doesnt think this compensation is sufficient, but hes not demonstrated how the 
misinformation damaged the companys reputation or had any other adverse effects on its 
operations. And although I can appreciate that it is likely to have caused Mr B some concern 
personally, I can only award compensation to G  as it is the accountholder and therefore 
the eligible complainant under our rules. And so it is only a matter of compensating the 
company for the inconvenience it was caused by being incorrectly advised that the review 
would be completed in 15 working days, for which I think £100 is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to pay G compensation of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman