DRN-2711418
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited recorded a claim on her motor 
insurance policy against her wishes. She wants her No Claims Bonus (NCB) restored. 
What happened
Mrs R told Admiral that her car door had made a scratch on another drivers car door. She 
said she didnt want to make a claim but to sort it out privately. But Admiral contacted the 
other driver and he made a claim against Mrs R. Admiral dealt with the claim and reduced 
Mrs Rs NCB from eight years to three. Admiral agreed that it had later given Mrs R 
misinformation, and it paid her £30 compensation for this. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mrs R 
had told Admiral that she didnt want to make a claim. But she thought Admiral had 
explained to Mrs R that she would be held liable and that it would contact the other driver to 
try and mitigate its losses if he were to claim. She thought Admiral had reduced the NCB in 
keeping with the policys terms and conditions. And she thought it had paid Mrs R 
reasonable compensation for misinforming her. 
Mrs R replied that shed made it clear to Admiral that shed reported the incident for 
information only. She thought it had proceeded to deal with a claim against her wishes. She 
wanted her NCB restored.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs R feels frustrated that Admiral dealt with the other drivers claim 
and her NCB was affected. She told us that shed agreed to settle the matter privately with 
the other driver and had already made arrangements to do this. She then took advice that 
said she should report the incident to her insurer. 
I dont think theres any doubt that Mrs R reported the incident to Admiral as for information 
only and she made it clear that she didnt want to make a claim for herself. But, from the 
circumstances as Mrs R described them, Admiral thought it was liable for damage to the 
other car. If the driver made claim to his insurer, then the cost of the claim could increase. 
So I think Admiral was entitled to check with the other driver that he was happy to settle the 
claim privately rather then make a claim. This is explained on page 3 of the policy booklet:
If there is another person involved in the incident, we will attempt to speak to them 
immediately and potentially stop them from making an expensive or false claim against you.
The other driver chose to make a claim through Admiral. This was contrary to Mrs Rs 
wishes. But I think Admiral had then to deal with and settle this claim as its entitled to do by 
the policy terms and conditions. 
I can see that on page 26 of the policy booklet it states that Admiral is entitled under the 
terms and conditions of its policy with Mrs R to take over, defend, or settle a claim as it  sees 
fit. Mrs R has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of a claim, whether she 
agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and I dont 
find it unusual. 
So, although Admiral acted against Mrs Rs wishes, I think Admiral was entitled by the policy 
terms and conditions to do this. And I think Admiral made it clear to Mrs R that it would have to 
contact the other driver and offer to deal with his claim unless he chose otherwise. So I cant say 
that Admiral did anything wrong in this. 
Mrs R wanted Admiral to keep her updated, but Admiral didnt do this. But I think Admiral has 
reasonably explained to Mrs R that it would have updated her when the claim was finalised so 
that she was made aware of it. I think that was fair and reasonable as Mrs R had already reported 
the incident and liability had been established. 
Mrs R was unhappy that the other drivers claim has affected her NCB, stepping it back to three 
years when she previously had eight. But I think Admirals policy booklet clearly explains the NCB 
process. I think it states that Admiral recognises a maximum of five years NCB and that a fault 
claim will step it back by two years. Mrs Rs NCB was unprotected, so I cant say that Admiral has 
made an error as its acted within the policy terms and conditions. And I dont require Admiral to 
restore Mrs Rs NCB. 
Mrs R said she was given incorrect information about her notification at one stage in the claim. 
Admiral has agreed that Mrs R was misinformed, and its paid her £30 compensation for this 
error. I think that sufficiently redresses the impact the error had on Mrs R. So I think this was fair 
and reasonable and I dont require Admiral to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman