DRN-3853472
The complaint
Mr A complains about how ReAssure Limited handled a claim under his life and critical 
illness policy.
What happenedIn September 2021 Mr A broke his arm and made a claim thinking that accidental injury was 
covered under his policy.
ReAssure turned down the claim saying that accidental injury cover (including broken bones) 
didnt form part of the policy. They offered Mr A £250 as an apology because for the last few years the policy schedule had incorrectly listed accidental injury as a benefit. 
Mr A was unhappy with this so brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into things. They thought ReAssure had acted fairly by not paying the claim as what happened wasnt covered under the policy. They thought however that Reassure should do more to put things right and recommended an increase in compensation to £750, which was agreed. 
Mr A didnt accept the £750 saying it was an insult, so the complaint has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has provided a lot of information about his complaint and its clear how strongly he 
feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr A that Ive read and considered everything hes provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised some things which reflects the informal nature of our service.
This policy was taken out in 2004 with a predecessor business to ReAssure. The policy 
schedule from the time shows Life Cover and Critical Illness. So at the time it was taken out accidental injury cover didnt form part of the policy. There isnt any paperwork from the time of the sale, other than the policy schedule and cover letter, but it seems that Mr A wasnt looking for accidental injury cover at that time as it wasnt covered under the policy.
Reassure took over the policy from a predecessor business and continued to send yearly 
renewal letters to Mr A. Accidental Injury appeared on the policy schedule a few years ago leading Mr A to think he was covered for things like broken bones. ReAssure have said this was an error and shouldnt appeared; hence why they offered some money in compensation for a loss of expectation. And looking at what happened I think this was a loss of expectation and isnt something that was ever covered under the policy. So Im satisfied ReAssure fairly turned down the claim. 
When investigating the complaint it came to light that Mr A had a separate Accidental 
Protection Cover policy which was taken out in 2010 with the same predecessor business of 
ReAssure. However that policy wasnt taken over by ReAssure from the predecessor business so was held with another product provider; and that policy schedule did include broken bone cover. It seems there might have been some confusion between the policies as that policy schedule was presented when making the complaint about the ReAssure policy. 
It turns out that Mr A had cancelled the policy with the other provider so was unable to make 
a claim. Mr A said this was because he thought he had cover with ReAssure. I can see why he might do this however taking everything into account this isnt something I can fairly and reasonably hold ReAssure responsible for.
When the policy was taken out it didnt cover accidental injury so at that time I think its fair to 
say that it wasnt cover Mr A was interested in. This policy only covered life and critical illness which is clear from the schedule at the time. So Mr A shouldve had no expectation this policy would cover accidental injury and this isnt what the premiums paid for.
Mr A took out the other policy some six-years after taking out this policy, so they are 
separate events. This policy never covered accidental injury and whilst there is a loss of expectation I think its clear this was an unintentional error. ReAssure dont offer the type of cover outlined in the other policy schedule so it isnt possible for them to process a claim. 
Mr A says he thought accidental injury was covered under this policy however that benefit 
never formed part of the terms and conditions or benefits, it wasnt in the policy he applied for, and it wasnt what the premiums paid for. 
Putting things rightFor the inconvenience of what happened ReAssure Limited should pay Mr A £750.My final decisionReAssure Limited has offered to pay £750 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair 
in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that ReAssure Limited should pay Mr A £750.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023. Warren WilsonOmbudsman