DRN-2076021
The complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has turned down a personal money claim he 
made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P has travel insurance as a benefit of his bank account.
In October 2019, Mr P was travelling to the airport by coach. He said the driver wouldnt 
allow hand luggage to be brought into the coach, so his locked luggage was placed in the 
hold. When Mr P arrived at the airport, he found his bag was missing, although it was 
returned the following day.  Mr P discovered around £1300 was missing from the bag, along 
with a pair of sunglasses and his passport. So he made a claim on his travel insurance 
policy.
Aviva turned down Mr Ps claim for the stolen money, although it agreed to cover the 
sunglasses. It said the policy excluded claims for valuables or personal money which werent 
fully accessible to a policyholder, or which werent in their full view while they were travelling. 
After Mr P complained, it reconsidered the claim. It felt Mr P had given an inconsistent 
version of events about whatd happened. So it said it couldnt assess whether the loss had 
happened because of something the policy covered. 
Mr P was unhappy with Avivas decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. He considered what Mr P 
had said about how the loss happened. He thought Mr Ps luggage hadnt been fully 
accessible to him or in his view at the time the bag was lost. So he felt it was fair for Aviva to 
rely on its policy terms to turn down Mr Ps claim.
Mr P disagreed. He felt Aviva was trying to rely on its small print to avoid paying his claim. 
He questioned how the investigator had concluded that the bag wasnt in his full view or 
accessible to him. He said the bag had been in his full view until the point it was stolen. Hed 
taken all necessary steps to protect his bag. The luggage was in a place that was in his line 
of sight.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Aviva to turn down Mr Ps claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly. 
And they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered the policy terms and Mr 
Ps version of events carefully to decide whether I think Aviva handled the claim fairly and 
reasonably.
Mr Ps policy provides cover for a policyholders baggage and personal money which are 
lost, stolen or accidentally damaged. The policy covers personal money up to a limit of £750 
per insured person. Theres no dispute that Mr P did suffer a loss of personal money, from 
the coach and I can see hes provided evidence that he had the cash he said he did.
But in this case, Aviva doesnt feel Mr Ps shown the circumstances of the loss/theft of his 
money are covered by the policy. It initially relied on the following terms to turn down Mr Ps 
claim:
What is not covered
Loss, accidental damage or theft of personal money or valuables not carried in your hand 
baggage and fully accessible to you while you are travelling.
Loss or theft of personal money, baggage, valuables or golf equipment which you have 
deliberately left somewhere that is not in your full view and with no one known to you looking 
after them.
It later concluded that Mr P had given it an inconsistent version of events about how the loss 
had happened, so it didnt feel it could assess whether or not it was covered by the policy 
terms. So Ive thought very carefully about everything Mr P has said and provided.
Its common ground that Mr P placed his locked hand luggage containing the cash in the 
coach hold. Hes told us the coach journey was direct to the airport, so it seems unlikely the 
bag couldve been taken during the coach trip itself. It seems more likely the bag was taken 
after the coach arrived at the airport. Ive listened carefully to the calls between Mr P and 
Aviva to understand how he thought the loss had occurred.
Initially, Mr P told Aviva that he didnt know whatd happened to the bag, but that the coach 
driver told him itd been handed to a family. This would suggest the bag hadnt been in Mr 
Ps sight or accessible to him at this point, as he hadnt seen the bag and itd been in the 
drivers control. He later told Aviva that hed seen the driver unload the bag onto the 
pavement and then itd gone missing. And he also told Aviva that the bag had been 
unloaded and was close to him, but itd then been stolen. 
Based on the differences in Mr Ps testimony, I think its fair for Aviva to conclude that it cant 
fairly assess whether the claim is covered or not. Aviva said Mr Ps version of events 
changed once he became aware that it wasnt covering his claim. In the circumstances, I 
dont think Mr P has provided a clear and consistent version of events about how the loss 
happened. So I think its reasonable for Aviva not to be in a position to settle the claim based 
on the information it has.
I appreciate Aviva did settle the claim for the sunglasses, although it appears they strictly 
werent covered by the policy terms. It seems it made a commercial decision to settle this 
element of the claim outside the terms of the policy, which I think it was entitled to do. But I 
dont think it would be fair for me to direct to pay Mr Ps cash claim on this basis.
Overall, I think it was fair for Aviva to turn down Mr Ps claim for the stolen money.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman