DRN-4473984
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C have complained about the way Covea Insurance plc settled a claim made 
under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
The facts surrounding this complaint are well known to the parties. In summary Mr and Mrs 
C made an escape of water claim  they had returned from holiday to find the bathroom and 
lounge in their house flooded. Covea approved the claim in November 2022 and Mr and Mrs 
C moved into alternative accommodation whilst their house was being dried and the 
bathroom works carried out. The matter didnt then progress in a timely manner and 
ultimately Mr and Mrs C arranged for the works to be done themselves. They are out of 
pocket and request disturbance allowance for the time they were living with the works not 
completed.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld in part. She didnt recommend 
that a disturbance allowance was paid but felt that Covea should reconsider the bathroom 
quote/invoice from the company that completed the bathroom works. The investigator felt 
that this should include new sanitary ware, but that Covea only needed to consider works 
carried out on a like for like basis. If further payment was due, she recommended that Covea 
add 8% simple interest on the additional funds.
Our investigator also recommended that Mr and Mrs C be compensated for stress and 
inconvenience in the sum of £400.
Mr and Mrs C accepted the view.
Covea didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our statutory 
function is to resolve complaints quickly and with minimum formality and our rules allow me 
to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative 
to the courts. Our rules also permit reaching a decision on the basis of what has been 
submitted and to take account of the failure by a party to respond. So here Ive proceeded in 
the absence of a response to our investigators recommendations from Covea. Having done 
so I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the following reasons:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, 
amongst other things, the law and the policy terms to decide whether I think Covea 
handled Mr and Mrs Cs claim fairly.
Covea offered a cash settlement equivalent to what it would have paid its supplier  
generally that would be fair. But here there is no evidence that Covea offered one of 
its suppliers to reinstate the bathroom damage. By January 2023 the drying had been 
completed and repairs could be undertaken. Covea asked Mr and Mrs C to provide 
quotes in order to cash settle the claim. As it didnt offer one of its suppliers to carry 
out the repairs, Im satisfied it is reasonable for Covea to settle the claim by paying 
what it cost Mr and Mrs C to get the work done by a private contractor.
Covea are only required to pay for insurance related works (damage caused by 
escape of water) and on a like for like basis. If any insurance related works have 
been reinstated to a better standard then Covea isnt required to cover the full cost as 
the policy doesnt provide for betterment. However, as a private contractor would be 
unlikely to guarantee a repair using existing sanitary ware that they didnt remove, I 
dont agree that its fair to require Mr and Mrs C to use their existing sanitary ware. 
I dont find that Mr and Mrs C have prejudiced Coveas position by going ahead with 
repairs. They provided quotes which Covea didnt accept as they werent in line with 
its supplier cost. But as they werent offered Coveas supplier I find Mr and Mrs Cs 
actions were reasonable. Like our investigator I havent seen any scope of works or 
quotes  and would reiterate that Covea is only required to reimburse Mr and Mrs C 
for works costed on a like for like basis.
Although the claim originally progressed expediently  with striping out and drying 
starting promptly and alternative accommodation being sourced, I find that delays 
started in April 2023. Covea offered a final settlement for the lounge reinstatement 
based on an estimate by its supplier. But reinstatement hadnt been offered to Mr and 
Mrs C. Therefore, Im satisfied if Covea had provided a fair settlement in April 2023 
then Mr and Mrs C couldve arranged their own contractor to start work in the lounge. 
But this didnt happen. Covea later agreed to appoint their own supplier to progress 
the lounge works. But by the final response date in June 2023, the repairs hadnt 
been organised. Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have needed to rely on Covea completing 
the repairs if they had offered a fair settlement in April 2023. Due to this Mr and Mrs 
C have had to live for much longer than necessary in a home that wasnt comfortable 
for them which caused them undue stress and inconvenience. Accordingly, I find 
compensation is merited. 
Mr and Mrs C believe that a disturbance allowance is due to them  but I dont 
uphold this part of their complaint. I appreciate that living conditions werent ideal 
when they returned from the alternative accommodation supplied by Covea, but Im 
not persuaded their home was uninhabitable or unsafe. I say this because they did 
have use of necessary facilities, including kitchen and en-suite bathroom. But I agree 
that they have lived like this longer than necessary due to the delay mentioned 
above. Ive taken this into account and overall I find compensation in the sum of £400 
is due.
Putting things right
I require Covea to:
On receipt of a full itemised breakdown from Mr and Mrs C, reconsider the bathroom 
invoice/quote from the company that undertook the work in accordance with the 
remaining policy terms. The cost of any insurance related items or work (but nothing 
in addition) should be reimbursed, and this includes the new sanitary ware. 
If additional funds are payable, simple interest is to be added at 8% per year calculated from the date payment was made to the contractor to settlement, but 
interest not to exceed that payable one calendar month from the date the decision is 
accepted.
Pay Mr and Mrs C compensation of £400. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman