DRN-2876943
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund a number of cash withdrawals made 
from his account which he says he didnt make.
Mr Ms complaint has been brought by his representative but, for clarity, Ill just refer to Mr M 
in my decision.
What happened
Mr M says a number of different cash withdrawals made from his account between October 
and December 2019 werent made by him. The withdrawals were for varying amounts 
between £50 and £500, totalling over £13,500, and were made at a number of different cash 
machines.
Lloyds investigated the withdrawals but said Mr Ms genuine card and correct PIN had been 
used to make the withdrawals, the card was still in Mr Ms possession and only he knew the 
PIN. So it didnt agree fraudulent activity had occurred and didnt agree to refund the 
withdrawals. Mr M wasnt happy with Lloyds response, so referred his complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and said they felt it was likely Mr M had 
authorised the withdrawals. So they didnt ask Lloyds to refund them. Mr M disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Lloyds needs to refund the withdrawals to Mr M. Ill explain why 
below.
Generally, Lloyds can hold Mr M liable for disputed transactions on his account if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that he made them himself or told someone else 
they could make them with his card.
Lloyds has sent us technical evidence showing how the disputed cash withdrawals were 
made. This evidence shows that the chip on Mr Ms card was read for each of the 
withdrawals. And Im not aware of any method for the chip itself to be cloned. So Im 
satisfied that Mr Ms genuine card and correct PIN were used to make all of the withdrawals.
But the relevant regulations say that this, on its own, isnt enough to allow Lloyds to hold 
Mr M liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more likely than 
not that Mr M consented to the withdrawals being made with his card.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is most likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Mr M says the card has been in his possession for the whole period during which the 
disputed cash withdrawals were made. But, as his genuine card was used to make the 
withdrawals, in order for someone else to have made them they would have needed to steal 
Mr Ms card, use it and return it. And they would have needed to do this on a number of 
occasions over a period of more than two months, without Mr M noticing. Some of the 
disputed withdrawals are also made on the same day as, and even within a few minutes of, 
transactions on the account that Mr M isnt disputing. So I think its unlikely a third party 
would have been able to do all this without Mr M noticing.
Mr M also says no-one else knows the PIN for the card and the PIN wasnt written down 
anywhere. But if this is the case, I cant see how someone who took the card would know the 
PIN. Lloyds evidence doesnt show any unsuccessful PIN attempts before any of the cash 
withdrawals. And given the number of possible combinations, its extremely unlikely 
someone could guess the PIN correctly first time. So I think its likely whoever made the 
withdrawals, knew the PIN.
The general nature of these withdrawals is also not the sort of thing a thief would normally 
do after stealing a card. Generally, the way fraudsters operate is to get as much money as 
quickly as possible in order to avoid the source of the money being cut-off or them being 
detected. But here there are gaps of several days, sometimes even weeks, between the 
withdrawals. And the withdrawals dont always take the full available balance for the day. So 
I dont think its likely the withdrawals were done by an unknown fraudster.
Mr M has said his medical conditions mean he wouldnt have gone out to make these cash 
withdrawals. But Mr M doesnt have to have physically made the withdrawals himself for 
Lloyds to hold him liable, only to have consented to them. And Lloyds evidence also shows 
that a number of the cash machines used for the withdrawals are within one mile of Mr Ms 
address.
Statements for the account, showing the withdrawals, were also sent to Mr Ms correct 
address during the period in which the withdrawals were made. Mr M had access to online 
banking throughout the period. And Lloyds evidence shows balance enquiries on Mr Ms 
account were done at cash machines on a number of occasions during the period when the 
withdrawals were made, and not always on days when withdrawals were made. I think its 
unlikely a fraudster wouldve stolen the card, checked the balance and then not made a 
withdrawal. And I think its surprising Mr M didnt notice the disputed withdrawals sooner, 
given the different ways he had of monitoring activity on the account.
I appreciate how Mr M feels about this case, but Im afraid the evidence isnt in his favour. 
And based on the evidence I have, particularly that its unlikely someone wouldve been able 
to steal and return Mr Ms card multiple times without him noticing and that theres no 
plausible explanation for how someone else would know the PIN, I think its likely Mr M 
either made the withdrawals himself or authorised someone else to do so.
It therefore follows that I dont need to look into whether the transactions were unusual in 
comparison to Mr Ms usual activity on the account or whether Lloyds should have identified 
the withdrawals as potentially fraudulent as, even if it had done so, I think its likely Mr M 
would have confirmed he had authorised them.
So I think Lloyds has acted reasonably in holding Mr M liable for the withdrawals and I dont 
think it needs to refund the withdrawals to him.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman