DRN-3081826
The complaint
Mrs B complains about what happened when she tried to clear the full balance on her credit 
card held with Tesco Personal Finance PLC.
What happened
Mrs B told us that because of changes in her personal life, shed decided to clear the 
balance on her Tesco credit card. So, at the end of February 2021 she amended her direct 
debit payment, using Tescos online banking website. She said shed done this two or three 
weeks before her payment was due, on 15 March, so she thought the payment would go 
through. Mrs B said her online account had confirmed this payment would be taken.
Mrs B said Tesco didnt take the payment on 15 March. She said she tried changing her 
direct debit back to the minimum, then to the full amount again, before making a manual 
payment in the early hours of 16 March. 
Mrs B complained. She said Tesco then claimed it had told her that her direct debit might not 
be taken, but she disputed this. She also said Tesco reversed the late payment charge it had 
applied, but told her it couldnt stop formal debt warning letters from being issued, unless she 
voluntarily paid the disputed fine (and then asked for it to be refunded again).
Mrs B said she then received formal default letters. She said if Tesco wasnt going to take 
payment, it needed to tell her that specifically. She repeated that she hadnt seen any 
warning that her direct debit might not collect in March, if she changed it that month. And she 
said even if that warning did display, it would have been superseded by later confirmation 
that her direct debit would collect. Mrs B told us Tesco clearly and specifically told her the 
direct debit would collect on 10 March. She sent us a screenshot that she said showed this.
Mrs B also said that the underlying process was unacceptable. Tesco shouldnt fail to collect 
a direct debit when asked to increase it. And it shouldnt write to people saying they are in 
debt, when they arent.
Mrs B said she had received default letters, although she was in credit. She said that this 
was harassment, and inappropriate for her. Mrs B said Tesco had damaged her reputation. 
She was sure that an adverse record must have been established, and she wanted that to 
be corrected. She wanted compensation for reputational and personal damage. And she 
wanted Tesco to change its processes so this couldnt happen again.
Tesco said that when Mrs B changed her direct debit amount, the online banking website 
displayed a clear warning that payment might not be taken that month.
Tesco said this warning reads as follows  
What you should know:
Changing your Direct Debit now could result in no payment being made this 
month.
If you don't want this to happen then do not proceed with this change.
To be sure of paying the full balance this time, you can pay using Faster 
Payments or with a debit card. See your statement for details
Tesco said it hadnt done anything to suggest that Mrs Bs payment would still be taken by 
direct debit in March. And it didnt think it had to provide a further warning to Mrs B, telling 
her specifically that her March direct debit wasnt going to be taken, because it thought it had 
already done this, through the above online warning. 
Tesco said that when Mrs B paid on 16 March, the day after payment was due, a late 
payment fee had been charged to her account. But Tesco told us it had refunded this as a 
gesture of goodwill, because it was clear that Mrs B hadnt intended to miss a payment. 
Tesco said it had explained to Mrs B that letters would be issued to her because she hadnt 
paid on time. And this happened for two months in a row. Tesco stressed that it didnt need 
her to make any payment, and there would be no negative information reported about her to 
credit reference agencies. But Tesco said it couldnt stop these letters from being sent. 
Tesco has explained that Mrs B did pay late in March, because payment was only made on 
her account on 16 March, the day after it was due. Her April statement showed that shed 
cleared the balance of her card, but because this happened a day late, Tesco had applied a 
late fee. It had then credited back this late fee. But Tesco doesnt count credits onto an 
account as a payment (like many credit card companies) so this wouldnt count as a 
payment for April. Tescos systems would therefore issue debt letters to Mrs B. Tesco has 
been clear that Mrs B could disregard those letters. 
Tesco didnt think it had done anything wrong. It wouldnt pay Mrs B more compensation. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Tesco had 
provided an online warning that Mrs Bs direct debit may not collect in March. And he said 
that it is common practice in the finance industry for a manual payment to be required in the 
month when a direct debit is amended.
Our investigator said Tesco had refunded the late payment fee applied to Mrs Bs account, 
so that Mrs B wasnt left out of pocket. And it had assured Mrs B that there was no negative 
impact on her credit file. He said he could still understand why Mrs B was concerned to 
receive default letters. But Tesco had explained why these letters were triggered, and that 
Mrs B could disregard them. 
Our investigator said Tesco had made sure Mrs B hadnt been left out of pocket, and it had 
informed Mrs B of the situation in a reasonable way. So he wouldnt ask Tesco to do more. 
Mrs B didnt agree. She said that our investigator hadnt recognised what she would have 
been aware of at the time of her actions, based on the information Tesco provided. Mrs B 
compared Tesco unfavourably to her experience with other card providers. 
Mrs B wanted to stress that she didnt see the warning message Tesco said it had displayed. 
Mrs B felt this message was, in any event, vague and superseded by later, unambiguous 
advice that the payment would be taken by direct debit, so it was no longer relevant. 
Mrs B also said she was never genuinely in default or deficit, she said shed never missed a 
payment. She said, rather, that Tesco had failed to collect payment. So she didnt think 
Tesco shouldve written to her in the terms it used. Mrs B said it was clear that trust has broken down on both sides, so the account should be 
closed, and the credit Tesco was holding should be returned. 
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He repeated that Tesco was clear throughout the 
process that Mrs B would not be left with any detriment.
Mr B then wrote on Mrs Bs behalf, to say that what Mrs B experienced was a confusing and 
inappropriate mess than continued for some months. He felt that Mrs B did suffer detriment 
about the uncertainties of how to clear her credit cards, and the letters Tesco sent were 
inappropriate and offensive. Mr B said Tesco returned the fee because it saw that Mrs B had 
cleared the card after it had failed to collect the direct debit, but Mr B said that shouldnt be 
confused with compensation. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Mrs B says there wasnt a warning before she changed her direct debit. Tesco has insisted 
that there was, and its set out what this warning was. It has also shown us a screenshot of 
the online banking screen where the customer asked to confirm the change to take the full 
amount owed on her card. Ive seen the screenshot that does display this warning. 
Mrs B says Tesco has confirmed that this message wouldnt always display. But thats not 
quite what Tesco says. It says this message would show when this warning is appropriate  
so it would only display if someone is changing their direct debit in the time between when a 
statement is printed and when the payment requested on that statement is collected. 
Ive considered what both sides have said about this, and I think its likely that this warning is 
visible on Tescos online banking website in relevant circumstances. Mrs B amended her 
direct debit on 2 March, and the payment was due on 15 March, just under two weeks later. 
So I also think its likely that this warning did display when Mrs B made this change. 
I note that this warning isnt clear about whether the direct debit will be taken or not, in these 
circumstances. But it is clear in terms of the advice it gives. It says that a direct debit may 
not be taken for that month, then it says  
If you don't want this to happen then do not proceed with this change.
To be sure of paying the full balance this time, you can pay using Faster Payments or 
with a debit card. See your statement for details
So I think Tesco had clearly advised Mrs B on 2 March not to rely on this direct debit to 
make a payment to her card by 15 March. And it set out a different way she could clear the 
balance, if she wanted to.
Mrs B says if Tesco wasnt going to take her payment, it ought to have written to her 
specifically to say this. I do think Tesco had already warned Mrs B of this, so I dont think it 
had to do so again.Mrs B says this shouldnt matter anyway, because Tesco then confirmed it would be taking 
the full amount that month. She said this would override the earlier message anyway, and 
she sent us a screenshot, which she said confirmed this. 
But the screenshot doesnt say that Tesco will take a payment in March. What it says is that 
full payment will be taken on or around the 10th of the month. I think thats confirming Mrs 
Bs payment date for the future. The screenshot Mrs B has shown us doesnt confirm that 
this payment would be taken in the month that Mrs B wanted it to be taken. And, importantly, 
Tesco had already warned her that it might not be. 
So I think Tesco had provided a warning to Mrs B that she was changing her direct debit too 
close to the payment date, and it couldnt guarantee a payment would be taken. I dont think 
that this warning was superseded by the information on the screen that Mrs B has sent us.
The screen Mrs B sent us says that full payment would be taken on or around the 10th of 
each month. But Mrs B said when this amount wasnt taken on the 10th, she checked her 
account again, and she said the account said the full amount would now be taken on the 
15th of the month. Mrs B doesnt appear to have sent us a screenshot of this confirmation. 
Mrs B said her statement also told her a payment would be taken on the 15th, but I note this 
statement was issued before Mrs B made the changes to her direct debit discussed above.
No direct debit was collected on the 15th, so Mrs B decided to make a manual payment.
I do think it is clear from what both sides have told us, that this was a misunderstanding, and 
Mrs B had always intended to make full payment. And she did so, on 16 March. 
Because of that, Tesco has waived the late payment fee for Mrs B. And it said that there 
would be no adverse data reported to the credit reference agencies. Because Tesco has 
repeatedly reassured Mrs B, and our service, that it hasnt recorded any adverse data for 
Mrs B with credit reference agencies, I dont think Tesco has damaged Mrs Bs reputation. 
Tesco told Mrs B that she would receive letters telling her that shed not paid. Tesco said 
those letters are issued automatically when someone hasnt made a payment onto their card 
within the required time. Tesco said it couldnt stop these letters, unless Mrs B did make a 
payment, putting the account in credit. But it stressed that it didnt need her to make any 
payment, and said she could simply disregard the letters. Ive noted already that Tesco has 
explained that there are no wider consequences for Mrs B.
I think that Tesco has explained why the first of these letters was issued. Mrs B did pay late 
in March, although unintentionally. And Tesco has explained why the second letter issued. 
Mrs B had incurred a fee for late payment, so there was something owing on her card for 
April. Although Tesco refunded this, it doesnt count credits to the account (like this refund) 
as a payment. Thats a fairly common approach amongst credit card companies, and Tesco 
has explained it couldnt change this just for Mrs B. 
Tesco also explained that Mrs B would not be disadvantaged by these letters. It has told her 
to ignore them. I think thats a reasonable approach for Tesco to have taken in this case. 
Mrs B said that her other credit card companies had managed to implement a change to her 
direct debits in time. But this might be affected by how many banks are involved (a change 
to the payments onto a card held at the same bank as her current account might be faster, 
for example) and also by the point in the billing cycle at which the change is requested. So I 
dont think this means that Tesco has done something wrong.Mr B said our service shouldnt confuse Tescos refund with compensation. Id like to 
reassure him that Im not doing that. Ultimately, I think what has gone wrong here is a result 
of Mrs B not having seen the warning Tesco issued when she tried to change her direct 
debit. And that means I dont think what has gone wrong is Tescos fault. I should also note I 
do think Tesco has taken reasonable steps to put things right. So, although I know that Mrs 
B will be disappointed, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman