DRN-3854576
The complaint
Mrs H complains about how Employment Law 4U Ltd (EL4U) handled her Employment 
Tribunal case.
What happened
In July 2021, Mrs H instructed EL4U, a regulated Claims Management Company (CMC), to 
deal with her Employment Tribunal claim. The claim was submitted to the tribunal and Mrs H 
was awarded £36,583.90 in settlement before tax deductions. EL4U then invoiced her for 
£12,250 for their outstanding fees. Mrs H said she felt pressured into agreeing to the 
settlement. And that EL4U had told her she would receive £30,000 of her settlement, tax free 
into her account. Mrs H complained that:
She was led to believe her claim was being handled by a qualified solicitor;
EL4U werent sufficiently expert in employment law to adequately represent her as shed 
had to be heavily involved in the case preparation;
EL4U misled her about the settlement of the claim; and
EL4U hadnt dealt with the issue of Non Disclosure despite several requests.
EL4U said theyd provided Mrs H with their terms and conditions after an initial call that 
clearly explained their role, their fees and what theyd do for her. They said theyd carried out 
extensive work and achieved the settlement offer. EL4U said theyd explained that £30,000 
was tax free but the remaining £6583.90 was taxable. And had been clear that Mrs H  would 
be responsible for their fee for her successful claim. 
Mrs H wasnt happy with EL4Us response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said EL4U hadnt sent the settlement offer in a durable medium before  
eliciting an agreement in principle over the phone. And that if they had Mrs H would have 
had more time to consider her response. Also, some of the tone and content of EL4Us 
emails had caused Mrs H distress and inconvenience. But he said EL4Us fee was justified. 
He asked EL4U to pay Mrs H £150 for the distress and inconvenience that had been caused 
to her.
Mrs H didnt agree she said the way EL4U had put the offer to her led her to understand that 
she wouldnt be responsible for the costs, this meant shed lost over £12,000 of her 
compensation. And they are still pressuring her to pay their fee, charging her interest so that 
they didnt have to pay the £150. She asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I partially uphold this complaint. I know Mrs H will be disappointed by this, Ill 
explain why I have made this decision. 
Mrs H has raised many arguments and points relating to her complaint. Ive addressed only 
those which are relevant to my decision. Theres no discourtesy intended here and, while 
Ive carefully reviewed all of Mrs Hs comments, Ive only dealt with those which relate to the 
complaint Im deciding. Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, as some of it is here, I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
EL4U as a claims management company should adhere to the Claims Management: 
Conduct of Business sourcebook.(CMCOB) for guidance. Many of the calls between 
Mrs H and EL4U were made using a mobile telephone that didnt have a recording 
option. CMCOB 2.3.2 says:
Firms must record all telephone calls and retain all other relevant communications.
So its unfortunate that the calls between Mrs H and EL4U arent available for me to 
consider. And Id expect EL4U for future reference to consider how they handle and retain 
calls.
Settlement 
I can see that the settlement agreement was signed and dated 10 October 2022, the amount 
was for £36,583.90. With £6,583.90 subject to tax deductions.
On 7 October 2022 I can see EL4U explained in an email exchange what the settlement 
amount was, the fee theyd charge and what would happen at the tribunal hearing a few 
days later. I can see in this email trail there was an  exchange in which Mrs H questioned the 
legal costs (EL4U) and whether these could be paid by the other party. And had wanted to 
ask for this at the upcoming hearing. E4LU explained that the agreement was accepted on 
the basis of being Without Prejudice , and that the respondent had agreed to a payment 
that they thought was reasonable.  Mrs H asked EL4U to call her to discuss it further. 
Unfortunately, a recording of this call isnt available for me to listen to. But I can see that     
Mrs H, after this call went on to sign the agreement.
Ive looked at the agreement and this clearly says that the respondent accepts without 
admission of liability. And Mrs H in signing the agreement has accepted this as a full and 
final settlement. The awarding of costs doesnt form part of this agreement as no liability was 
accepted.
EL4Us terms and conditions say:
It is important that you understand that you will be responsible for the payment of our bills
I can also see in the pre contract information that Mrs H is told about:
Wasted Costs orders may also be made against either party in a case if it has
failed to follow tribunal directions and the resultant delay causes the other side to incur
additional unnecessary expense.
From the information Ive seen, I cant say EL4U have acted without instructions. There is 
regular communication between EL4U and Mrs H discussing aspects of the settlement. And, 
I can see that there was a discussion about an offer of £20,000 being too low. So, the 
evidence I think shows Mrs H was involved in the negotiations and was aware of the terms 
on which EL4U were settling her claim, and the consequences if she didnt agree. I would also consider that Mrs H, as a solicitor, would have a good understanding of the agreement 
she was signing.
I agree with our investigator, it would have been better for Mrs H to have had sight of the 
settlement offer before the phone call seeking her agreement. This would have allowed her 
time to consider the settlement under less time pressure.
Status to deal with employment claim
EL4U was required to provide Mrs H with information that was fair, clear and not misleading 
before she agreed for them to represent her. I can see E4LU sent Mrs H their engagement 
letter and terms and conditions on 29 July 2021. I can see there was a declaration that said:
I, Mrs ** H** have read understand and accept the terms, within this letter of engagement, 
29 July 2021, the supplied general terms and condition and the supplied pre contract 
information along with details of the cancelation policy.
.And that the engagement letter was signed and dated 30 July 2021.  
Mrs H says EL4U arent a firm of solicitors and they struggled with handling her employment 
law claim because of this. I can see EL4U are regulated as a CMC and the work they carried 
out is covered as a regulated activity under CMCOB. So, I cant say EL4U have acted 
unreasonably here. I havent seen any information which suggests EL4U have claimed to be 
a firm of solicitors or otherwise that would have led Mrs H to believe they are. The contract 
signed by Mrs H in July 2021 sets out who EL4U are regulated by and this doesnt suggest 
they are an authorised firm of solicitors, as the regulator is shown as being the Financial 
Conduct Authority and not the Solicitors Regulator Authority. 
Fees
EL4Us terms and conditions say:
If we agree in writing to charge a fixed fee for a particular matter, it will be expressly
described as a fixed fee.
I can see that EL4U in the pre contract information they sent to Mrs H say they would charge 
a fixed fee of 35%. And give a monetary example of this. The pre contract information also 
gave examples of any costs/fees that wouldnt be covered within the fixed fee charge. So, 
Im satisfied that EL4U gave Mrs H clear information about the fees they would charge her 
for her claim.
The pre contract information also says that the fixed fee would be charged against the 
amount Mrs H was offered or awarded and not the amount she received. From the 
settlement agreement Mrs H was awarded £36,583.90. So E4LUs fee of 35% would have 
equated to around £12,804. The £6,583.90 element of the award was subject to tax 
deductions. But to progress the settlement of Mrs Hs claim E4LU said they calculated their 
fee on the basis that Mrs H had £30,000 (tax free) and an additional £5,000, EL4U invoiced 
Mrs H for a fee of £12,250.
I can see EL4U have charged Mrs H less than the fee they said theyd charge in line with 
their agreement with her, and they have carried out work on the claim. So, I dont think its 
unreasonable for them to ask for their fee to be paid. I understand Mrs H says she felt threatened by the tone of the email sent by EL4U. And I 
can see that the relationship between Mrs H and E4LU had broken down and was more of a  
combative rather than conciliatory nature. So, I can understand the distress this caused.
Non- Disclosure Agreement (NDA)
Mrs H has said she didnt get a proper response to her question about being able to discuss 
her case. But I can see that E4LU told Mrs H that  there are no restrictions to the NDA. Ive 
also considered the agreement which says there was nothing to prevent either party from 
making a protected disclosure. 
Putting things right
I appreciate Mrs H was heavily invested in the claim for a long period of time, and that she 
did some of the work toward this herself. But I think given the nature of her claim this would 
have always been the case.  
Had the service E4LU provided been fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances, I dont 
think Mrs H would have been any less invested in her claim or would have put less work into 
this herself. Because of this, Im only compensating her for the failure in E4LUs customer 
service.
When considering the compensation, Im directing EL4U to pay £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience they caused to Mrs H in their communications after she challenged the 
outcome and their fee. And the time pressure that she felt.
Any award made for distress and inconvenience is for Mrs H to determine how that award 
will be used, and not for EL4U to decide they will offset against any monies owed to them by 
Mrs H.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. And ask Employment Law 4U Ltd to pay Mrs H £150 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman