DRN-3216751
The complaint
Mrs As complained that Crystal Legal Services Limited (Crystal) have tried to charge her a 
success fee for obtaining a refund of mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI)  but she 
obtained the refund herself.
What happened
In mid-2018, Mrs A contacted Crystal for assistance in trying to recover PPI from a lender Ill 
call L.  An appointment was made for her to speak to a Crystal adviser a few days later.  But, 
before the appointment, Mrs A found out she didnt need to use a claims management 
company to make a claim.  So she cancelled her appointment and told Crystal she didnt 
want to use their services.  And she pursued her claim with L directly.
The Financial Conduct Authority set a deadline of 29 August 2019 to start a claim for a PPI 
refund.  A day or two before this, Crystal sent Mrs A an email inviting her to sign up and 
avoid missing the opportunity to claim.  Mrs A says she signed this as she mistakenly 
thought it was from L  to whom shed already made a claim.
In August 2021, Crystal sent Mrs A two letters, telling her the claims made to L had been 
successful and invoicing her for success fees totalling £2,723.16. 
Mrs A didnt think she owed Crystal anything and raised a complaint.  She said shed 
received her PPI refund following her own claim to L, not as a result of anything Crystal had 
done.
Crystal didnt uphold Mrs As complaint.  They said theyd contacted L in September 2019 
and had updated Mrs A while they were waiting for a reply.  L told them in August 2021 
theyd sent Mrs A a refund in late 2019  which they said showed they had authority to make 
a claim on her behalf.
Mrs A wasnt satisfied with Crystals response and brought her complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded Crystal shouldnt charge Mrs A success fees for the 
claims against L.  Mrs A provided copy documents from L showing shed made a claim 
before she was contacted by Crystal in late August 2019.  And the investigator received 
confirmation from L that both claims for which Crystal invoiced Mrs A had been initiated by 
her  not a claims management company.
Crystal didnt agree with the investigators view and said we couldnt interfere with the 
contract theyd had with Mrs A since August 2019.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mrs As complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions Mrs A signed.  Clause 4 says:
4. Fees
4.1 We operate on a No Win, No Fee basis, except where the agreement is cancelled by 
You after 14 days or You fail to fulfil Your obligations set out in Section 3 of this agreement.
4.2 We will only charge You a fee if We achieve some Compensation award for You.
4.3 Our fee is 20% plus VAT of any Compensation we achieve for You.
I think its clear from this that Crystals fee is a success fee  thats to say, its payable if it 
was Crystals work that led to Mrs A receiving a refund.
And I dont think that happened here.  Crystal say L received the claim they made on Mrs As 
behalf on 16 September 2019.  But Mrs As sent us letters from L dated before this.  Both 
acknowledge shes made a PPI claim and that L will check their records for policies.  
And a letter to Mrs A dated 16 September 2019 gives details of the policies L found.  Thats 
the same date Crystal say L received their application.  So I dont think its fair to conclude 
that L found those policies because of anything Crystal did.  
Putting things right
While Ive noted Crystals comments, our role is to investigate complaints brought against 
regulated businesses (which Crystal is).  And, if we think a business hasnt treated their 
customer fairly, we can decide about what they need to do to put that right  including saying 
they shouldnt charge a fee they may feel theyre contractually entitled to.
I think thats whats fair here.  Im satisfied the evidence shows L sent a refund to Mrs A as a 
result of the claim she made herself  not as a result of Crystal achieving an award for her.  
And, as they didnt achieve an award, I dont think its fair for them to charge Mrs A a 
success fee.  And they should cancel the invoices they sent her on 4 August 2021.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs As complaint and directing Crystal Legal 
Services Limited to cancel the two invoices dated 4 August 2021 which total £2,723.16.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman