DRN-2507655
The complaint
Mr L complains that a car he acquired with the assistance of finance from Hampshire Trust 
Bank Plc isnt of satisfactory quality.   
What happened
Mr L entered in to an agreement with HT Bank to finance the purchase of a new car on 10
April 2017 for £70,111.99. Mr L paid £5000 deposit. In the first year the car displayed fault
messages and had issues with trims and seals which were all repaired under warranty. On
26 April 2018 the car failed to start, and the battery was jump started. The same fault
presented in May 2018. Mr L took the car to the supplying dealership and a routine service
was carried out. Tests were undertaken to see if the cause of the battery drain could be
found and some software updates were carried out.
The same issue presented in November 2018 and recovery agents were called who
confirmed the battery was drained. Mr L took the car to the supplying dealership for further
investigation and further software updates were carried out.
In May 2019 the car failed to start again, and the battery was found to be discharged. On this
occasion the battery was replaced. The fault has continued to present intermittently, and the
car failed to start in August 2019, twice in October 2019 and twice in November 2019. In
September 2019 the car was returned to the supplying dealership and it was confirmed that
there had been a fault with the HVAC system and further software updates were carried out.
Mr L wasnt happy with the car and complained to HT that it was of unsatisfactory quality and
not fit for purpose. HT didnt accept Mr Ls complaint and said that as the issue with the
battery presented outside the first year of ownership, he wasnt able to reject the vehicle.
Mr L wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service. In January
2020 Mr L paid for an independent inspection of the car by an engineer. The inspection
concluded that the fault had been present at the time of supply and the car was not of
satisfactory quality.
Our investigator considered Mr Ls complaint and thought it should be upheld. He thought
that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the time of supply and Mr L was entitled to
reject the car and have his deposit back. He thought HT should pay Mr L £500 
compensation for his impaired use of the car and for the inconvenience caused. He also
thought that Mr L should have some of the cost of the independent report covered and
recommended £300.
Mr L wasnt happy with the level of compensation and said that because of HTs delays he
had been forced to get an independent report.
HT didnt agree with the investigators findings and said in summary that as the issue with the
battery didnt present until a year after Mr L took delivery of the car Mr l wasnt entitled to
reject it. There was no evidence of a fault with the battery set out in the investigators report
and so there was no evidence that it was present at the point of supply.
So, the matter has been passed to me, an ombudsman to decide. This is the final stage in
our process. Whilst the case was awaiting allocation Mr L explained that the car had had a
battery failure again in April 2020. In October the car suffered a loss of power whilst Mr L
was driving, and it appears that the oil pump has failed, and the car now requires a
replacement engine at a cost of around £11,000.  
On 14 December 2020 I issued a provisional decision setting out why I was minded to 
uphold the complaint and to give Hampshire Trust Bank an opportunity to comment on the 
latest breakdown.
Both the business and Mr L have agreed with my provisional conclusions and so I havent 
seen anything that would persuade me to depart from that decision which I set out below.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I would like to apologise to Mr L and his family for the time taken for his
complaint to reach me. I can see that this complaint has had a significant effect on Mr L, and
he has had a number of breakdowns in a car that he has been paying a significant amount of
money for.
Mr L has referred to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) and his request to reject the car
because it isnt of satisfactory quality. HT initially said that the car should not be rejected 
because it has been repaired, the faults were raised approximately 12 months after the 
contract and there is no evidence that the car was faulty at the point of sale.
I dont apply the law directly in the same way that a court would approach matters, but I do
take it into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable. The CRA provides 30 days to
reject the car if it is not of satisfactory quality. After 30 days the business is allowed one
opportunity to repair the car. There is no cut off point of 12 months, however, after 6 months
the responsibility shifts to the consumer to show that the car was of not of satisfactory quality
when Mr L bought it.
Satisfactory quality covers a number of things. The car should be free from defects and fit for
purpose. Satisfactory quality also covers durability of components. So, it is reasonable to
expect that a brand-new car will be fault free and the components will be expected to last
longer than a used car that had covered significant mileage. The price paid for a car will also
impact on what it is reasonable to expect in terms of quality. In Mr Ls case the car cost just
over £70,000.
I would not expect a brand-new car costing over £70,000 to develop a fault of this nature
which prevented it from starting on over 10 occasions after only a year and having travelled
around 6,000 miles when the fault first presented.
The independent report concludes, It is important to note that any electronic software
updates are an indication that the system is in its present format is not operating correctly.
With the system being in this condition at point of sale it would be considered that the vehicle
is not of suitable quality or fit for purpose
It goes on to state, Furthermore, the multitude of electronic software updates and
component replacements has still not rectified the faults with this vehicle.I consider that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of sale, it was not
sufficiently durable and was not fit for purpose. It would be a reasonable expectation that a
brand-new car costing this amount would not have an intermittent fault causing the battery to
drain and preventing it starting after only a year of ownership and 6,000 miles travelled.
I therefore think that Mr L should be entitled to reject the car as numerous attempts at repair
have been unsuccessful and it isnt reasonable to expect this to continue.
The car has now suffered a total engine failure as a result of loss of power and a possible oil 
pump failure. I can see that the engineer did suggest that this was a possibility in his report 
when he concluded that it could not be ruled out that the car could fail whilst in service.
Mr L has had no alternative but to use the car that he is paying a considerable amount of
money for. HT have not agreed to allow him to return the car and he has been unable to
negotiate a satisfactory resolution.
I consider that there was more than one attempt to repair the car that was unsuccessful, and
it is not reasonable for any further attempts at repair and so Mr L is entitled to reject the car. I
do not agree with HT on the basis of the evidence I have seen that the car has been
satisfactorily repaired and there is no evidence of a fault. I think that Mr L has
provided ample time for the car to be properly repaired or replaced and HT has failed to
ensure this was done. I consider that Mr L is entitled to reject the car and unwind the
agreement.
Mr L has confirmed that a courtesy car was provided for the periods of time the car was in
the garage. It appears that for the first year before the fault with the battery presented itself
Mr L covered around 6,000 miles. He has covered just over 5000 miles since January when
he was advised by the independent engineer that the car was unreliable. At the point of
failure in October 2020 the car had covered 24,963 miles. I currently think that even though
the car has had faults Mr L has been able to travel an average of 6,000 miles per year which
appears to be his normal use. So, I broadly agree with the investigator that the payments Mr
L has made equate to his fair use of the car.
However, as the car failed in October, I currently think that Mr L shouldnt have to make any
payments after the instalment for October 2020. I also consider that it would be fair and
reasonable to refund two months instalments to reflect the trouble and upset caused by the
car failing to start and the breakdowns experienced before this failure. I think that the latest 
breakdown supports Mr Ls contention that the car isnt of satisfactory quality.
I also consider that Mr L should have the full cost of the experts report refunded to him upon
production of the invoice. HT didnt accept that the fault was present at the point of sale and
so Mr L was required to obtain an expert report. I dont see why he shouldnt have
the full cost refunded to him. Whilst he may have been able to obtain a cheaper report, I
dont think it is reasonable that he is expected to know this or to shop around for the
cheapest price.
Putting things right
To put things right I currently think Hampshire Trust Bank Plc should do the following:
 
End the agreement with nothing further to pay;
Arrange to collect the car at no cost to Mr L;
Refund all monthly payments from November 2020 to reflect the period that Mr L has 
been without a car;Refund 2 monthly payments to reflect the impaired usage;
Pay the full amount of the expert report;
Refund the deposit paid by Mr L together with 8% simple interest from the date paid 
to the date of settlement;
Remove any adverse information about the agreement from Mr Ls credit file;
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Hampshire Trust Bank Plc should put 
things right by doing what I have set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman