DRN-1607587
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the part Well Dunn Limited trading as Insurance Revolution 
Broking Services played in the cancellation of his motor insurance policy and the charges 
they made when this happened.  
What happened
Mr S renewed his motor insurance with Well Dunn and paid the amount due, which was a 
premium of £1,750, plus a £100 arrangement fee. The insurer wanted to see a copy of Mr 
Ss V5 and some other documents. And - according to their records - Well Dunn wrote to Mr 
S and asked for this on 4 August 2019. They didnt hear from Mr S, so they sent him a 
reminder on 2 September 2019. Mr S contacted Well Dunn and explained he couldnt find 
the V5 and had sent off for a new V5 document and he sent proof hed done this, along with 
the other documents the insurer required. Well Dunn explained this to the insurer, but the 
insurer wasnt happy about this and told Well Dunn to cancel Mr Ss policy. Well Dunn did 
this with effect from 24 September 2019. They told Mr S theyd done this and provided him 
with a refund of £1,208.93. Mr Dunn wasnt happy about this and complained to Well Dunn. 
Well Dunn responded to Mr Ss complaint by saying theyd cancelled the policy on the 
insurers instructions on the basis Mr S hadnt provided a copy of the V5 document in the 
required timescales. And they explained theyd deducted a cancellation fee and loss of 
commission fee. 
Mr S wasnt happy with Well Dunns response and asked us to consider his complaint. He 
said he hadnt done anything wrong and wanted a full refund. One of our investigators 
assessed Mr Ss complaint and recommended Well Dunn refunded the cancellation fees. 
Well Dunn didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I reviewed Mr Ss complaint and then wrote to both him and Well Dunn setting out my 
thoughts. I said Well Dunn should refund £65 of their cancellation fee, plus interest. Well 
Dun agreed to do this, but Mr S doesnt think this is enough. Hes said he didnt do anything 
wrong and doesnt think he should have to pay any more than the premium for the time he 
was covered under the policy. So, Im providing this final decision as Mr S isnt happy with 
what I suggested was the fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint about Well Dunn 
Limited. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of Mr Ss responses to my emails, I think it would help if I started by explaining the 
roles of the parties involved. Well Dunn is Mr Ss insurance broker and they are there to 
arrange and  assist him with the administration of his insurance policy. And it wasnt their 
decision to cancel the policy. In fact they wanted it to continue. The insurance company  
who could also be referred to as the underwriter or the insurer  provided the cover under 
the policy and would have paid any claims. The insurer were the company who decided the 
policy should be cancelled and they charged a pro rata premium for the time they were on 
cover, plus a £25 cancellation fee. When Well Dunn were told to cancel the policy they 
charged an additional cancellation fee and a loss of commission fee and both these fees 
were set out in their terms and conditions and mentioned to Mr S over the telephone when 
he called to cancel the policy. 
I should also explain that the rules covering the arrangement and administration of insurance 
polices by insurance brokers like Well Dunn  The Insurance Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (ICOBS) - do not include anything about cancellation fees charged when the 
policy is cancelled more than 14 days after it was agreed ie after the cooling off period.
I can understand Mr Ss view that he didnt do anything wrong, but I dont think Well Dunn 
did anything wrong either. All they did was followed up when Mr S didnt provide a copy of 
the V5 after they requested this originally. Then, when he couldnt provide this they asked 
him to explain why and passed this explanation onto the insurer. The insurer then instructed 
them to cancel the policy, which they did. I cant comment on the insurers actions in this 
decision, but it is clear from what happened, it wasnt Well Dunns decision to cancel the 
policy. Mr W has suggested Well Dunn arranged an inappropriate policy for him, but I dont 
think this was the case. They arranged a standard policy with a large insurer and that insurer 
 like many others  wanted to see a copy of the V5 of the car they were insuring. This isnt 
something thats mentioned specifically in either the insurers or Well Dunns terms and 
conditions, although Well Dunns letter confirming the policy did refer to the fact they may 
ask for certain documents. But all Well Dunn did was request a document the insurer wanted 
to see, which it was obliged to do as Mr Ss insurance broker. It was unfortunate Mr S 
couldnt find the V5, but it wasnt Well Duns fault the insurer wasnt willing to continue with 
the policy despite the fact Mr S had explained he had sent off for a new V5. As Ive already 
said, its clear Well Dunn wanted the policy to continue and for Mr S to have more time to 
provide a copy of the V5. 
Well Dunn had to cancel the policy because the insurer told them to and the policy terms 
allowed them to do this. Well Dunn clearly set out the fees it would charge if Mr Ss policy 
was cancelled. As, Ive already explained, these were a £100 cancellation fee and a loss of 
commission fee of up to 20% of the premium. They also made it clear when they arranged 
the policy theyd charged a £100 arrangement fee. The insurer charged Mr S a premium 
proportionate to the time he was on cover and a £25 cancellation fee. 
Well Dunn had no control over what the insurer charged, so I can only consider whether 
what they charged in the circumstances was fair. As they made both the cancellation fee, the 
loss of commission fee and the arrangement fee clear in their terms and conditions, I think it 
was reasonable for them to charge all of these fees; especially as it wasnt their fault the 
policy was cancelled. Im also satisfied that the loss of commission fee and the arrangement 
fee were reasonable because Mr S was told what these would be and the commission fee is 
actually less then Well Dunn said it could be when Mr S renewed his policy. But I think the 
cancellation fee should be proportionate to the service Well Dunn provided. This is because I 
dont think it should be a penalty when really the intention of it is to cover any administration 
costs Well Dunn incurred in cancelling the policy. It is hard to work out what it would have 
cost Well Dunn to administer the cancellation of the policy, but I think this is likely to be £35. 
This is because they charged this for cancellation in the first 14 days of the policy and the 
rules covering arranging insurance policies say that in this period the brokers charge must 
be proportionate to the service provided. 
Putting things right
So, I think Well Dunn should only charge a cancellation fee of £35. And this means Mr S 
should get a further refund of £65 and I think Well Dunn should add interest to this at our 
normal rate of 8% per year simple from the date they provided the original refund to Mr S to the date they make this payment. 
My final decision
 My final decision is to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Well Dunn Limited trading as Insurance 
Revolution Broking Services must pay Mr S £65, plus interest at 8% per annum simple1 from 
the date they paid the original refund when his policy was cancelled to the date of actual 
payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman
1 If Well Dunn considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from this interest, they should tell Mr S how much theyve taken off. They should also 
give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 