DRN-3718460
The complaint
Mrs E has complained that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) caused unnecessary delays 
when she tried to claim on her legal expenses insurance policy.
For the sake of clarity when I refer to Amtrust I mean both it and any agents working on its 
behalf. 
Background
Mrs E has legal expenses insurance cover through Amtrust since August 2021. In February 
2022 she contacted the legal helpline to start a claim under the policy as she needed 
support dealing with an issue involving a property she owned overseas. 
Mrs E contacted the helpline number provided on her insurance policy and explained what 
the problem was and that it was time sensitive as it appeared steps were being taken to 
seize part of her property due to confusion over legal ownership and linked costs. 
The representative Mrs E spoke to contacted the panel solicitors on her behalf two days later 
to inform them that she wanted to start a claim. Concerned that she hadnt yet heard 
anything Mrs  E got back in touch on 9 March to chase a response and was given a claim 
form on 10 March to complete and return, which she duly did on the same day. 
Additional information was needed from Mrs E, which she did provide, but which required 
translating as it wasnt written in English. Communication continued back and forth regarding 
this and on the 31 March Mrs E travelled to the country where the disputed property was and 
elected to appoint a local solicitor to act on her behalf. This was because she was concerned 
the ongoing delays she was experiencing were putting her at a disadvantage and she 
needed immediate legal support in place. 
She believes Amtrusts agents caused unnecessary and unfair delays and that her claim 
was mismanaged. She feels that the various agents she has dealt with since the start of her 
claim failed to investigate her complaint about delays properly and are essentially blaming 
each other for the problems shes had without any one-party taking responsibility. 
Amtrust has said that the legal agents it appointed to manage Mrs Es claim were notified 
about it on 9 March and the following day sent out the claim form to begin the process for 
her. It then continued to regularly contact Mrs E for additional information and explain what 
was happening with the claim between March and May when it says it was notified about her 
complaint. Having reviewed the complaint in full it believes the issues Mrs E has highlighted 
are the responsibility of the panel solicitors that were assigned to her claim and as such she 
needs to complain directly to them as Amtrust is unable to investigate claims regarding legal 
practices. 
Unhappy with Amtrusts response Mrs E brought her complaint to our service to be 
considered. One of our investigators looked into her complaint already. He found that there 
appeared to have been a breakdown in communication between the panel solicitors 
appointed to Mrs Es claim and the legal agents managing it. As such he agreed that the 
issues Mrs E experienced needed to be addressed with the solicitors and it wasnt 
something he could say Amtrust was responsible for. So, he didnt uphold Mrs Es complaint. 
Mrs E remained upset and didnt accept that Amtrust couldnt be held responsible for the 
delays she believed the panel solicitors caused. She said Amtrust appointed the solicitors, 
so was responsible for how they managed her claim. She asked for an ombudsman to 
review her complaint and so its been passed to me to consider.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator and for much the 
same reasons. 
The timeline between Mrs E contacting the helpline to let it know she needed to make a 
claim (22 February 2022) and her decision to appoint her own solicitor in the country where 
the property was located (5 April 2022) is 6 weeks. Mrs E has said that throughout this time 
she felt extremely anxious and panicked about what was happening both with the property 
that had been partly seized by local authorities overseas and with the delays she believed 
were being caused to her claim. She said there was an urgency regarding the matter as she 
had only been notified about the issue herself on the 17 February by which stage legal 
proceedings had already begun overseas. Therefore, she was extremely worried the matter 
would proceed without her having adequate representation in place, or indeed fully 
understanding what the legal issues regarding her property were. 
The agent who managed Mrs Es claim has provided a detailed timeline, with supporting 
correspondence to show that it was made aware of Mrs Es claim on the 9 March 2022. Mrs 
E has confirmed this was the same day she logged her complaint against the panel solicitors 
as she felt they werent properly progressing her claim at that time. 
Having reviewed all of the correspondence between Mrs E and the legal agent I am satisfied 
that throughout its direct contact with Mrs E it responded in a timely manner and was clear 
on what information was needed and why. In particular it appears that the legal agent 
explained that the documents provided by Mrs E would need to be translated and the claim 
then fully assessed before it could proceed. 
However due to the urgent nature of problem Mrs E was facing she had decided to travel to 
the property in question on 31 March and once there appointed a local solicitor to support 
her in the issue. 
I can understand why Mrs E made the decision to do this. It is apparent in her emails to both 
the legal agents, and panel solicitors at the time that she was under an enormous amount of 
stress and extremely concerned about what was happening with her property. However what 
I need to consider here is whether or not the legal agent is responsible for the delays Mrs E 
says she experienced with her claim.
To do this its necessary to set out how legal expenses insurance claims work, as they are 
substantially different from other types of insurance claims and also very different from 
appointing legal representation directly. 
Firstly, it is very common for insurance underwriters, such as Amtrust, to outsource their 
legal expenses claims to solicitors to deal with. This is because, generally speaking, 
insurance companies like Amtrust dont have the level of legal expertise needed to adequately assess legal cases and provide legal advice and representation in court. So they 
hire panel solicitors to do this for them. This means when someone makes a claim by 
contacting their insurance company that claim is then forwarded onto the legal experts to 
review. 
The second stage involves the panel solicitors reviewing what the claim is for and deciding 
whether or not the legal expenses policy provides cover for the dispute and that there are no 
relevant exclusions that might apply. Assuming cover is available the next step is for the 
solicitor to decide whether or not they think the claim is likely to succeed if the matter goes to 
court. Providing the solicitor agrees there is at least a 51% likelihood of success the claim is 
then finally accepted, and the solicitors will review the issue in full and provide legal advice.
As the above demonstrates the various stages involved in considering a legal expenses 
claim will impact the speed at which they progress. And also, as there are multiple agents 
involved, different ones have different responsibilities and control over different parts of the 
claim. 
Mrs E complained to the panel solicitors on 9 March that she was unhappy with how they 
were progressing her claim. However, it seems that the panel solicitors didnt make Amtrust, 
or its other legal agents, aware that Mrs E had made a complaint. And so, it was unaware 
she was unhappy with how things were progressing. And because Mrs E was unhappy with 
the solicitors behaviour, even if Amtrust had been aware sooner, it wouldnt have been able 
to investigate her complaint for her. This is because, as noted above, Amtrust doesnt have 
relevant legal understanding or expertise. So, it cant realistically review the actions, or 
inactions, of the solicitors and decide if theyve managed the claim reasonably. Only 
someone with legal knowledge can do that. Which means Mrs E needs to make her 
complaint to the solicitors directly and if unhappy with how they respond, refer the complaint 
to the Legal Ombudsman. 
Mrs E has queried why this service, which is named in her insurance policy document as the 
place to bring complaints about insurance companies, cant investigate the solicitors for her. 
And the reason is much the same as the one for Amtrust. This service doesnt have 
jurisdiction to consider complaints against solicitors, only the Legal Ombudsman can do that. 
So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to say whether or not I thought the solicitors caused 
unreasonable delays or whether I thought they had progressed her claim in a fair way. 
All of which means I am unable to uphold Mrs Es complaint because I cant see that 
Amtrust, or the agents put in charge of managing Mrs Es claim caused any delays in how it 
was progressed. I appreciate this will upset and frustrate Mrs E, but I hope I have clearly 
explained why this is the case. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mrs E complaint against Amtrust Europe 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman