DRN-3583575
The complaint
Miss S complains that a finance agreement brokered by Peter Vardy (Perth) Limited (Peter 
Vardy) was misrepresented to her.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss S, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss S acquired her car under a Personal Contract Purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about 
it.  
If Miss S was given a false statement of fact and if that false statement led her to enter an 
agreement she wouldnt otherwise have entered into, I would think the agreement had been 
misrepresented to her.
Miss S says she didnt sign the agreement and that it was the sales agent that put through 
the electronically signed document. Peter Vardy say otherwise, and Im required to decide 
what is most likely to have happened. The finance agreement was signed on 23 September 
2021 and I dont think its likely that the sales agent would have been able to do that on 
Miss Ss behalf. Thats because personal information would be required in order to do it and 
I think its unlikely that the sales agent would have that information; or at least less likely than 
the alternative  that Miss S provided the information and signed and agreed to the terms of 
the finance.
Miss S says she was pressured into the sale by Peter Vardy, but I can see that when Miss S 
was provided with a revised offer Peter Vardy gave her some time to think it over. They said 
theyd get back to her after the weekend. So, I dont think theres sufficient evidence Miss S 
was pressurised into agreeing the terms.
Im not therefore persuaded that Peter Vardy have done anything wrong here and Im not 
asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman