DRN-3267305
The complaint
Mr C and Miss J complain about delays and poor service provided by an appointed 
representative of Home in One Financial Services Limited. Mr C, who has dealt with the 
complaint throughout, says this resulted in them missing out on the mortgage product they 
wanted.
 
What happened
Home in One had recommended a mortgage to Mr C and Miss J. It contacted them in May 
2020 as their mortgage product was due to expire. Home in One recommended they stay 
with the same lender, and said it would send documents to them. Mr C says he returned the 
documents in mid-May. Home in One says it didnt receive the documents until mid-June. By 
that time, the product Mr C and Miss J had chosen was no longer available.
Mr C says Home in One should have set a deadline for them to return the documents, made 
them aware they might miss out on the rate if there were delays, and suggested better ways 
to return the documents given there were delays with post at that time.
Mr C says they had to take out a product with a higher interest rate which will cost about 
£700 more over the two-year product term. He asks that Home in One negotiates a better 
rate with the lender or compensates them for the additional cost.
Our investigator said Home in One sent documents out promptly after speaking to Mr C. It 
sent an email confirming the documents had been sent and saying the documents could be 
returned by post or scanned and emailed. Our investigator said it wasnt Home in Ones fault 
that the lender changed its product rates, and it was likely the agreement in principle sent to 
Mr C said this could happen.
Mr C and Miss J didnt agree. Mr C said he didnt accept the investigators assumption that 
the agreement in principle said rates could change. He said he wasnt made aware that rates 
can change or that an agreement in principle isnt a guarantee. He said while agreements in 
principle might in general state this hes confident that the one he received did not, otherwise 
hed have responded differently. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its unfortunate that Mr C and Miss Js lender changed its product rates between early May 
2020, when Mr C spoke to Home in Ones mortgage adviser, and mid-June 2020 when 
Home in One received the acceptance documents. This was outside Home in Ones control.
Mr C says its unreasonable to make assumptions about what the agreement in principle 
said. I should explain here that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
Mr C questioned why Home in One didnt provide a copy of the agreement in principle if it 
supported its case. Its unfortunate that neither Mr C nor Home in One has been able to 
provide a copy of the agreement in principle. Mr C is right that without a copy I cant be 
certain that it contained wording to the effect that interest rates and/or the availability of 
products can change, even if I think thats likely to have been the case. I do think though its 
unlikely it said the interest rate product would remain available to Mr C and Miss J for an 
indefinite period, pending their return of the acceptance documents. 
I dont think its necessary to be an expert in mortgages to know that lenders change the 
interest rate products they offer from time to time. If Mr C thought theyd secured the product 
rate (despite not returning the documents) or that there was some guarantee the lender 
would keep that rate available for them until such time as they did return the documents, I 
dont think Home in One could reasonably have known this. 
While Mr C says Home in One should have set a deadline for them to return the documents, 
I dont think thats reasonable. Home in One wouldnt have known ahead of time that the 
lender would change its product range when it did. So it couldnt have set a deadline to fit in 
with this. 
I dont think Home in One caused delays here. It sent documents to Mr C and Miss J on 4 
May, two days after their discussion with its mortgage adviser. It sent an email confirming 
this, and further messages in mid-May reminding them to return the documents.
Mr C says he posted the documents on 21 May. They didnt arrive with Home in One until 
mid-June 2020. Home in One isnt responsible for delays with the postal system. Home in 
One asked Mr C for scanned copies of documents to support the application. It says it didnt 
receive these.  
Home in Ones adviser said in an email to Mr C that as she hadnt heard from him she 
assumed he didnt want her help. I dont think this was unreasonable, given the adviser 
didnt hear from Mr C for over a month. 
Home in One couldnt progress the application until Mr C and Miss J returned the 
documents. It couldnt reserve the interest rate for them. And it wouldnt have been right or 
fair for it to try to do so. It was for Mr C and Miss J to make a decision whether to proceed. 
When it didnt receive the documents from them, Home in One wouldnt have known if this 
was because theyd decided not to go ahead. Mr C says he sent an email to Home in One 
on 18 May saying that returning the documents was on his to-do list. Home in One says it 
didnt receive the email. But even if it had, it was nearly a month before it heard from Mr C 
and Miss J again. 
Home in One sent documents to Mr C and asked for supporting documents promptly. It 
warned Mr C about postal delays, and sent him reminders about returning documents. I think 
Home in One acted fairly. 
Im sorry Mr C and Miss J didnt secure the cheaper interest rate product. But I dont think 
this was due to an error by Home in One. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require 
Home in One to negotiate a better rate with their lender or pay compensation to them.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman