DRN-3665540
The complaint
Mr D complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd has unfairly refused his critical illness claim. To 
resolve his complaint, he wants his claim paid in full. 
What happened
In February 2010, Mr D began a 25-year term assurance policy with Zurich, offering 
£500,000 of life cover and a further £230,000 critical illness benefit.  
In November 2020, Mr D was sadly diagnosed with a rare type of benign tumour, which was 
thought to be a type of craniopharyngioma. In April 2021, Mr D underwent exploratory 
surgery. He made a claim to Zurich under his policys critical illness benefit definition of 
benign brain tumour  resulting in permanent symptoms. 
In July 2021, Zurich refused Mr Ds claim. It said the tumour Mr D had was confirmed by 
histopathology in April 2021 to be a granular cell tumour of the pituitary stalk. Tumours of the 
pituitary gland were expressly excluded under the policy definition for benign brain tumour.  
Mr D complained. However, in a letter of August 2021, Zurich said it would not change its 
view on the claim and so it rejected the complaint. It explained that its chief medical officer 
(CMO) had assessed Mr Ds claim and noted that it was excluded by the policy wording. 
Mr D brought his complaint to this service and by this time, he was represented by his 
solicitor in pursuing it. 
Mr Ds representative had written to Zurich with a letter of claim in February 2022. It was 
submitted that upon gaining further insight into his condition - Mr D had since suffered 
ongoing symptoms and met with further treating professionals  it was believed that his 
tumour wasnt a tumour of the pituitary gland. The representative therefore explained that 
the policy exclusion shouldnt apply. To this end, Mr Ds representative supplied a report 
from a further consultant endocrinologist, Professor G, which set out his opinion that the 
tumour had not arisen in the anterior pituitary gland.  
An investigator did not think the complaint should succeed. He said he had considered the 
views of all of the medical professionals and he felt that their comments confirmed that Mr 
Ds tumour likely originated in either the posterior pituitary or the pituitary stalk. 
He noted how Zurich defined the pituitary gland as an umbrella term for the anterior, 
posterior and pituitary stalk; so, he felt it was fair to say that Mr Ds condition fell under the 
exclusion of tumours in the pituitary gland. On that basis, Zurich had acted reasonably in 
refusing the claim.  
Mr Ds representative said he did not accept the investigators findings. It supplied detailed 
written submissions for my consideration. Though I have reviewed these in full, I will not 
repeat them here. The key comments were:
this complaint is not about whether Mr Ds tumour of the pituitary stalk is a tumour 
the pituitary gland such that it properly falls within Zurichs policy exclusion;
Professor G is an eminent endocrinologist and a UK-leading authority with relevant 
expertise to the central issues in this complaint;
his medical opinion was that Mr Ds tumour was not a tumour of the pituitary gland;
yet the investigator read the same medical opinion and concluded that while he 
agreed Professor G had said the tumour did not originate from the pituitary gland, he 
felt that he had meant that the tumour likely originated from the posterior pituitary and 
was therefore excluded;
however, that finding failed to address the only relevant question in the dispute - 
namely whether Zurich had acted reasonably in determining that a tumour of the 
pituitary stalk was a tumour of the pituitary gland and therefore excluded by the 
policy wording;
though the correct approach in this complaint should be testing the reasonableness 
of Zurichs decision, the investigator started from the point of assuming that the 
disputed decision was fair;
he therefore did not provide a fair or relevant determination of the complaint;
in order to test the premise of whether Zurich had acted reasonably in determining 
that a tumour of the pituitary stalk was in fact a tumour of the pituitary gland, the 
investigator must have:
odisregarded Professor Gs comments where he says that it is generally 
accepted as a matter of medical definition that Mr Ds tumour was not 
properly defined as a tumour in the pituitary gland; and
ofailed to seek any evidentiary basis for Zurichs suggestion that tumours of the 
pituitary stalk fall within the umbrella descriptive term of the pituitary gland 
since it has seen no basis in medical science for the proposition that the 
pituitary gland is used as an umbrella term; 
the investigator only considered whether Zurich had properly applied its own flawed 
definition of the words the pituitary gland rather than seeing if it had fairly applied the 
policy exclusion;
so, the very matter which required to be determined by the investigator had already 
been decided in Zurichs favour;
on this basis, Mr D wants his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Zurich also had some further comments to make. It said:
Mr Ds tumour is unequivocally a tumour within the pituitary gland;
the view of Zurichs CMO is that a reasonable body of doctors, including eminent 
specialists, would classify the anatomical location of the physical mass to be termed 
the pituitary gland;
that is because this is the organ of interest to refer to when describing this tumour 
and the possible effects it could be associated with;
it is not appropriate to attempt to suggest the cellular structure of a granular cell 
tumour renders it in any way shape or form as not being captured within the pituitary 
anatomical boundaries;
any tumour inside these boundaries, irrespective of the cellular origin, would still be 
considered a tumour of the pituitary;
it contests that the medical community does use the term pituitary gland in accepted 
parlance to refer to any disease or disorder arising within it;
the pituitary gland can be further subdivided to the anterior and posterior lobes and 
the infundibular stalk, but for openness and concise awareness to the organ of 
discussion, the descriptive term pituitary gland is used commonly;
this umbrella term is adopted because it is more easily understood in clinical 
discussions and as a reference point;it remains of the view that the claim has been fairly refused because it is excluded 
under Mr Ds policy wording.  
The complaint has now been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. I was sorry to learn of Mr Ds diagnosis, and I send him my best wishes. 
Though I realise my decision will not be what Mr D has hoped for, I do not believe this 
complaint should succeed. This is because I believe Zurich has reasonably refused Mr Ds 
critical illness claim. Ill explain my reasoning below.  
To be fair to both parties in a complaint, I need to decide if Zurich has acted within the policy 
terms  and in this specific case, whether it was reasonable to apply the policy exclusion in 
the face of Mr Ds medical evidence. I accept Mr Ds representatives view on that approach. 
So, it falls to me to review the wording against the agreed contractual policy wording.
In respect of the critical illness of benign brain tumour  resulting in permanent symptoms, 
the policy wording says:
A non-malignant tumour or cyst in the brain, cranial nerves or meninges within the skull, 
resulting in permanent neurological deficit with persisting clinical symptoms.
For the above definition, the following are not covered:
Tumours in the pituitary gland (my emphasis)
Angiomas
In addition the requirement for permanent neurological deficit with persisting clinical 
symptoms will be waived if the benign brain tumour is surgically removed.
Zurich is contractually obliged to pay a claim when policy wording has been met; and I dont 
think the policy wording itself is unjust.
I say that because the Association of British Insurers (ABI) issues industry guidance on 
critical illness policies. The guidance requires insurers offering these policies to include 
cover for cancer, heart attack and stroke as a minimum. Otherwise, insurers are free to 
decide on the conditions and exclusions applicable to their products. 
These periodic Statements of Best Practice are for insurers to use when offering such cover, 
and they give model wordings including exclusions. In the guide applicable at the time Mr D 
took out his policy (April 2006), the model wording proposed was exactly as set out above  
Zurich has used the model wording in its insurance offering, including the exclusion. 
Mr D underwent transsphenoidal biopsy in April 2021, in order to assess his specific type of 
tumour. The histology report carried out by his Consultant Neurosurgeon (who I will call Dr 
D), confirmed that the diagnosis was Granular cell tumour of pituitary stalk. 
Prima facie, the description falls within the exclusion that Ive set out in bold above. So 
Zurich is correct when it says a claim cant be paid unless the medical evidence supports 
that the tumour should not reasonably be considered a tumour of the pituitary gland.  Our role at this service is not one of expert medical analysis. I am required to reach a fair 
and reasonable outcome in the form of dispute resolution, and for cases of critical illness 
claims that requires a balanced review of the medical information from treating consultants 
as well as opinions from suitably qualified medical professionals, including CMOs.
This is supported by Mr Ds policy wording which explains how, for valid critical illness 
claims:
All diagnoses and medical opinions must be given by a medical specialist who:
is a consultant at a hospital in the UK; 
is acceptable in the reasonable opinion of our Chief Medical Officer, and
is a specialist in an area of medicine appropriate to the cause of claim.
When Mr D followed up with Dr D in June 2021, he said Dr D had confirmed that his tumour 
was not a straightforward pituitary tumour and it had progressed into a suprasellar mass. He 
sent over email confirmation from Dr D which said that there is not complete agreement on 
the cell of origin but most likely is a tumour of the pituitary infundibulum (stalk); this is 
definitely not a tumour arising from the anterior pituitary gland cells. 
Mr D explained that he was having to undergo 30 sessions of radiotherapy and that his 
situation was so rare and life-altering, that he felt Zurich ought reasonably to meet his claim.  
Mr Ds clinical oncologist, Dr F, also confirmed that it is an extremely rare entity, and is not a 
tumour of the pituitary gland (it is not a pituitary adenoma).
Zurichs CMO says Mr Ds tumour is a benign slow-growing non-secreting tumour of the 
pituitary gland. And it remains of the view that the pituitary gland is the umbrella descriptive 
term given to the sum parts of the total gland; those being the anterior pituitary, the posterior 
pituitary, and the pituitary stalk which connects the posterior lobe to the hypothalamus, 
carrying neurosecretory cell axons of the hypothalamus down to the posterior pituitary where 
they release two types of neuro-hypophysial hormones in the blood.
Zurich contends that this connection is called the hypothalamo-hypophyseal tract and 
anatomically, the pituitary stalk is part of the pituitary gland  hence the name pituitary stalk. 
It therefore submits that because the definition excludes tumours in the pituitary gland  so  
irrespective of whether a particular tumour is identified in the stalk, anterior or posterior 
pituitary lobe - the exclusion is triggered.
The final expert evidence from Professor G says that the pituitary gland is developed during 
foetal life from two distinctive parts, and he goes on to note that the anterior and posterior 
part fuse together in later foetal life to form a composite body, but one which comprises two 
separate and independently-controlled elements. 
What is being submitted by Dr D and supported by Dr F and Professor G is that Mr Ds 
tumour is not the most commonly understood type of pituitary tumour, that being an 
adenoma of the anterior part of the pituitary gland. He explains this, noting it has been 
suggested that the more general term "pituitary tumour" should be the general umbrella term 
for all tumours of the anterior pituitary. It is generally accepted by practitioners in the field 
that when the term "pituitary tumour" is used, it refers to tumours of the anterior pituitary 
hormone-producing cells. The hormone-producing cells of the posterior pituitary are nerve 
cells and never form tumours as such.
But, Zurich isnt disputing that. It accepts that (posterior) granular cell tumours are distinct from (anterior) pituitary adenomas. And Mr D did not have the latter, more common type of 
pituitary tumour. But, as Professor G confirms, the tumour Mr D has likely arisen from the 
posterior lobe. His concluding paragraph of his expert report said:
Mr D presented with a tumour arising above his pituitary which was originally 
diagnosed as a granular cell tumour, the tumour arising from the posterior part of 
the pituitary gland intermixed with neural elements [my emphasis]. 
Embryologically, this is essentially thought to be a glial tumour, and unrelated to the 
more common pituitary adenoma. In my opinion, the medical profession regards such 
tumours not as pituitary adenomas and therefore not as tumours of the pituitary 
gland.
Though Professor G makes the distinction from his medical classification perspective, he 
also confirms Mr Ds tumour as having arisen from the posterior part of the gland; this is 
because of its nature as a granular cell tumour of glial cells, which assist in the storage and 
release of hormones of the posterior pituitary. 
Though Ive seen no clear evidence of this, it may be put forward that the two anterior and 
posterior parts form the pituitary gland, such that it is argued that the pituitary stalk acts 
merely as a physical connection between the (predominantly posterior) pituitary gland and 
the hypothalamus. However, this has not been set out in clear terms that this is the case by 
any of the treating medical professionals  i.e., that Mr Ds tumour arose in the pituitary stalk 
only. The histology doesnt make that distinction and the cellular origin of the granular cell 
tumour remains uncertain. 
Even if this were the case, it is my understanding that the infundibular stalk is largely outside 
the blood brain barrier, hence it providing the connection to the hypothalamus  and the 
unexcluded part of the policy wording otherwise requires that the tumour occurs in the brain. 
I realise Mr D feels strongly about having taken out his policy in good faith. I recognise he 
feels that some discretion could be applied to his claim, given the severity of his condition, its 
rarity and the fact that his treatment has extended beyond that of a hypothetical claimant 
making a claim for other types of benign brain tumour. But, Mr Ds policy wording doesnt 
have the latitude to accept claims for conditions which are not listed or to disregard part of 
the wording - in this case, a clearly-worded policy exclusion. 
Critical illness policies are set up to cover the most common instances of diagnosed severe 
illnesses or events. It simply isnt possible for an insurer to provide insurance for every 
conceivable critical illness a person may suffer from or every type of procedure as a listed 
event, because the cost would be inherently unaffordable for most people taking out the 
insurance. The correct position is for a business to assess a claim on the evidence at the 
relevant date, against the agreed wording. Zurich has done so, and in my view Mr Ds 
circumstances fall within the exclusion defined above. So, it was fair to refuse the claim.  
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mr D and his position, I do not believe his claim was unreasonably 
refused and so I cannot uphold his complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman