DRN-2933464
The complaint
Miss C and Mr L are unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) reduced the amount it 
indicated it would lend them for a mortgage.
 
What happened
Miss C and Mr L contacted HSBC for a decision in principle in October 2019. Based on the 
information provided, HSBC said it may be able to lend them £216,980 based on a purchase 
value of £260,000. A further decision in principle for £229,444 was provided in January 2020 
based on a purchase value of £299,950. Following this, Miss C and Mr L put their property 
on the market. Once the lockdown was lifted they found a buyer and contacted HSBC in 
June 2020 to renew their decision. HSBC advised that its criteria had changed and it was 
unable to offer the same amount, and the indication of lending was £199,638 at this stage. 
An alternative provider agreed to lend Miss C and Mr L more money and they say they had 
no option but to proceed with this. However, they believe HSBC wouldnt lend them as much 
as they wanted because they had to pay a £3,000 early repayment charge (ERC) to go 
ahead with the move. Miss C and Mr L say that at no point did HSBC offer to port their 
existing mortgage across to the new property and then let them borrow the shortfall from an 
alternative mortgage provider. They would like the ERC to be waived.
HSBC says that, due to the coronavirus crisis, its lending policy has been updated to 
consider the financial impact of the pandemic on its customers. It has a duty as a 
responsible lender to ensure any lending is affordable. By the time Miss C and Mr L applied 
for their mortgage, a new decision in principle had to be completed and, as their incomes 
both reduced slightly between January and June 2020, this coupled with HSBCs amended 
lending policy meant that the reduced figure given on the later decision in principle was 
correct.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and concluded that the reason Miss C and Mr L 
were able to borrow less was as a result of their income reducing and HSBC amending its 
lending criteria. He didnt think it was unfair for HSBC to make changes to the level of risk it 
was willing to accept. He therefore didnt think there was any error in HSBCs decision in 
principle and didnt ask HSBC to take any further action. 
Miss C and Mr L disagreed with this and the case has therefore come to me to make a 
decision. They say that the calculations do not make sense, and a review by an underwriter 
and not a system would have had a fairer outcome. They also say HSBC should have told 
them they could apply to port their mortgage to a new property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the evidence I agree with the investigators view for broadly the same 
reasons and I've explained my reasons further below.
HSBCs Decision in Principle in June 2020 
Before lenders are able to lend money to customers, they must follow strict regulatory 
requirements in order to determine whether and how much they are able to lend. Different 
lenders will have different lending criteria and, whilst it is ultimately for them to decide 
whether to lend to a customer, they must reach this decision fairly having regard to the 
relevant rules.
In this case, HSBC provided Miss C and Mr L with a decision in principle in January 2020. At 
this stage I should say that a decision in principle is an indication of what lending might be 
possible. It is not a formal offer or guarantee that this amount will be provided. Ive looked at 
the decision in principle provided to Miss C and Mr L and it sets out that this was an 
indication as opposed to an offer and that it must not be treated as an offer. It also set out 
that the certificate was valid for three months. By the time Miss C and Mr L wanted to 
proceed with their mortgage application, this decision in principle had expired, therefore they 
had to ask for the decision to be renewed. 
By this time, the coronavirus pandemic had occurred, which had a financial impact on 
customers and caused many financial businesses  including HSBC  to review their lending 
criteria. HSBC has provided evidence to show that it changed its lending criteria including 
not accepting some types of variable income as an income source for the purposes of 
calculating affordability. 
Miss C and Mr L say that HSBCs calculations do not make sense in respect of the decision 
in principle provided in June 2020. Miss Cs salary had decreased and HSBC told them it 
was unable to take any variable income such as Mr Ls overtime into account. However, 
Miss C and Mr L say that they no longer had to pay childcare and travel costs and that this 
meant their overall financial position was better. 
I accept what HSBC says about the decision in principle provided in June 2020 being for 
less than the one provided in January 2020 on the basis of the reduced income of Miss C 
and the fact that some of Mr Ls income wasnt able to be considered due to HSBCs 
amended lending criteria.
Whilst I can understand why Miss C and Mr L are frustrated by this decision, I dont think it is 
unreasonable for HSBC to take into account the fact that their household income before 
deductions had decreased. I also dont think that it was unfair of HSBC to change its lending 
criteria in light of the ongoing economic situation at the time and to apply this to Miss C and 
Mr Ls renewed application. I therefore dont think that HSBC has done anything wrong in 
deciding it was  in principle  prepared to lend Miss C and Mr L less than before. 
The Option of Porting the Mortgage
Miss C and Mr L say that they werent given the option to port their mortgage with HSBC to 
their new property and borrow the shortfall from another lender. 
Firstly, it would not have been possible for Miss C and Mr L to have obtained another first 
charge mortgage on the same property to make up the shortfall as there can usually only be 
one first charge mortgage on a property. 
HSBC says that the potential for porting an existing mortgage is something which would be 
discussed at a second appointment when completing a full mortgage application. Therefore, 
this isnt something which would be considered as part of a decision in principle.
Ive looked at Miss C and Mr Ls mortgage offer provided in November 2018, which sets out that they had the right to transfer the loan to another property. However, the offer and the 
mortgage terms state that this would be subject to HSBCs satisfaction as to their financial 
status at the relevant time and normal assessment criteria. The offer also sets out that an 
early repayment charge may apply if the loan is repaid early (prior to the end of November 
2023) in the sum of 1% for each remaining year of this period.
The terms also cover where HSBC agrees to lend more than the balance of the mortgage 
debt at the time of moving property. They state that the additional amount can be borrowed 
from the current product range subject to availability, the terms and conditions of the 
product(s) concerned and our standard lending policy and assessment criteria which are 
applicable at the time. They go on to state If any the mortgage debt is repaid as a result of 
moving property this will be subject to any early repayment charges as described above. 
In light of the above, it is clear that  as Miss C and Mr L needed additional borrowing for 
their new property  the option to port the mortgage would be dependent on Miss C and Mr L 
meeting HSBCs lending policy and assessment criteria at that time for the amount they 
wished to borrow against their new property. Therefore, this would be based on the same 
criteria as the decision in principle detailed above.
It is clear that the amount offered in Miss C and Mr Ls decision in principle from June 2020 
was insufficient to meet the amount they needed to borrow in order to purchase the new 
property. The outstanding balance on Miss C and Mr Ls existing mortgage was £134,513 at 
the time but they required borrowing of £216,000, which would have meant that they still 
required further borrowing. As the decision in principle gave a potential total borrowing figure 
of £199,634, this would have left them £16,366 short of the amount they required. Therefore, 
I dont think HSBC has done anything wrong in this regard.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss C and Mr L, but I can't say that 
HSBC has acted unreasonably in the circumstances of this case and I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require HSBC 
UK Bank Plc to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman