DRN-3798114
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy Covea Insurance Plc (Covea) has declined a storm damage claim made 
under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2021, during a storm, damage was caused to Mr Bs boundary wall, so he 
made a claim to Covea, his home insurance provider.
Covea inspected the wall but they declined the claim. Whilst Covea accepted there were 
storm conditions at the time the wall was damaged, they didnt think the storm was the 
dominant cause. Instead, they said the wall already had a considerable lean prior to the 
storm, which wouldve created a weak spot, and the bad weather highlighted that pre-
existing historic issue. So, they declined the claim based on an exclusion in Mr Bs policy.
Mr B was unhappy with Coveas position, so he approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She recognised 
there were storm conditions, but based on all the information provided, she thought the 
dominant cause of the damage was gradual damage and deterioration, highlighted by the 
weather, which is excluded under Mr Bs policy.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we consider complaints about storm damage claims, we take into account the 
following questions, and if any of the answers are no then its likely a claim wont succeed:
Were there storm conditions?
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
Covea accept there were storm conditions at the time of loss. Thats not in dispute, so I dont 
need to make a decision about whether a storm occurred on the date of damage. And a 
garden boundary wall could be damaged by a storm, so that potentially satisfies question 
two above.
But Covea has declined the claim on the basis of their surveyors conclusions, that the wall 
had a considerable historic lean prior to the storm, due to gradual deterioration, which 
created a weak spot which resulted in the collapse during the storm. So, they concluded the 
storm wasnt the main or dominant cause of the damage, instead, they say the dominant 
cause was gradual deterioration, which has been highlighted by the storm weather at the 
time.
Mr Bs policy excludes:
Loss or damage arising from:
gradual causes
wear and tear
corrosion, deterioration or similar causes
wet or dry rot
Ive considered the conclusions reached by Coveas surveyor, and the images and 
information provided by both parties. Having done so, I dont think the conclusions reached 
by Covea are unreasonable. 
The surveyor has determined the wall had a considerable historic lean, and this was evident 
when they carried out their inspection as they could see where the wall previously was 
situated. The information provided supports that. They concluded that this wouldve created 
a weak spot due to that historic deterioration, and this caused the wall to collapse during the 
storm weather. Having considered everything, I find their conclusions persuasive.
Mr B also accepts the wall was leaning, but he disagrees there were any other issues with it. 
He has also provided a home buyers report, which says the wall was in a reasonable 
condition. 
However, the homebuyer report is limited in detail, whereas Coveas surveyor inspected this 
specifically after the loss, and they explained why they reached the conclusions they did. 
And as I say, based on what Ive seen, I find their conclusions persuasive.
Beyond the homebuyer report, Mr B has advised he doesnt have any reports which counter 
the conclusions reached by Covea. In the absence of any other expert reports and having 
considered all the information provided by both parties, I dont think Covea has acted unfairly 
by declining the claim based on the above exclusions.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman