DRN-3520631
The complaint
Mr L complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) unfairly declined his claim for 
storm damage under his buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr L has buildings insurance with Fairmead. He said that on 5 October 2021, water entered 
his house during a sudden rainstorm. He said that the rain was heavier than hed previously 
experienced in the more than 30 years hed lived at the house. Mr L said that water had 
entered his house around his atrium. He felt this was because the valley and downpipe 
couldnt cope with the volume of rain. And then overspilled into the roof and cascaded down 
into the house. He said that his neighbours with the same set up experienced the same 
issues. Mr L made a claim to Fairmead for storm damage. 
Fairmead declined the claim. They said that the rainfall didnt meet the policys criteria for a 
storm.
Mr L complained to Fairmead. In their final response to the complaint, Fairmead didnt 
uphold the complaint. They said that their decision to decline the claim was correct. 
Unhappy, Mr L brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator felt the complaint 
should be upheld. She felt that although the storm conditions of the policy hadnt been met, 
the rain had been exceptional and had also caused the same damage to Mr Ls neighbours 
property. Therefore she felt that Fairmead should accept the claim. She also felt they should 
pay Mr L £200 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
Fairmead didnt agree with our investigator. They said that our investigator had herself 
acknowledged that their storm criteria wasnt met on the date of loss. And that regardless of 
whether the rain had been exceptional or not, this didnt mean that it qualified as a storm 
under the policys criteria. They said that the rainfall recorded on the date of loss didnt even 
meet half of their criteria. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a final decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 11 May 2022. It said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. I understand this will be disappointing to Mr L. I 
dont agree with our investigator that the weather conditions at the time of the damage did 
meet the conditions required under the policy. Therefore I dont agree that Fairmead unfairly 
declined the claim. Ill explain why.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by a home insurance policy. If it was then 
insurance policies would be prohibitively expensive. Only damage caused by one of the 
insured perils (or, events) listed in the policy  fire, theft, escape of water, storm etc.  is 
covered. If a policyholder can show that the damage he or she is claiming for is caused by 
one of the policy perils then the insurer must pay the claim unless the insurer can rely one of 
the policy exclusions to defeat it. If the insurer wishes to rely on a policy exclusion it is its 
responsibility to prove it can be successfully applied to defeat the claim.
Mr L feels that the damage to his property should be covered under his buildings insurance 
policy as storm damage. Fairmead believe that the weather conditions at the time of the 
damage didnt constitute storm conditions. Therefore the damage cant be covered under the 
policy.
Should the claim have been covered?
As Mr L considers that the damage to his property was caused by heavy rain on the night of 
5 October 2021, Ive looked at the weather report Fairmead relied on to decline the claim. 
Ive checked this against this services information. Ive then gone on to check whether the 
weather conditions met the definition of storm under the policys terms and conditions. 
The policy defines storm as:
Wind speeds with gusts of at least 47mph/75kmh or torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 
25mm/one inch per hour or snow to a depth of at least one foot/30cm in 24 hours or hail of 
such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
While each policy may have a different definition of storm, Im satisfied that this is a 
reasonable definition to use.
Fairmeads weather report reported that the maximum wind gust speed on 5 October 2021 
had had been 35 mph. It also reported that the total rain that day had been 24mm. And that 
it had been very heavy rain, with 11.6mm falling in the hour ending 3am.
This service verified that information. Our weather report for the same date showed the 
same peak gust speed. And the same total rainfall and maximum hourly rainfall. 
Based on the weather report, Fairmead said that neither the wind nor rain criteria under the 
policy was met on the date of the incident. They said that they hadnt sent out a surveyor to 
assess the claim as no insured event had taken place. 
I have to decide whether Fairmead decided the claim in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy. And whether they came to a fair and reasonable decision when they declined the 
claim. 
Our investigator felt that although the weather data showed that the wind and rain was 
outside the criteria of a storm shown in the policy, she still felt that the rain at the time was 
exceptional. Therefore she felt it would be fair for Fairmead to accept Mr Ls claim. She 
noted that Mr L had explained that he hadnt experienced rain with such force while hed 
lived in the property. But she also noted that this wouldnt be sufficient to support the claim.  
From what Ive seen, our investigator was persuaded that the complaint should be upheld 
because Mr Ls neighbour had also had water ingress at the same time. And in the same 
part of their house. She felt that this supported how heavy the rain was and it being 
exceptional.
I dont agree with our investigators conclusions. Ill explain why.
Im grateful to Mr L for the videos hes shared with this service which showed the rain 
coming into his property. These videos showed the rain coming inside the house, but not the external entry point of the water ingress. As I mentioned earlier, the policyholder has to show 
that the damage being claimed for was caused by one of the policy perils in order for it to be 
covered. In this particular case, Im satisfied that Mr L hasnt yet shown that the damage was 
caused by a storm, as defined under the policy. While I acknowledge that Mr Ls neighbours 
had the same issue on the same night, Im not persuaded this is enough evidence to show 
that there was no underlying maintenance issue, for example with the downpipe. If Mr L has 
evidence that there was no underlying maintenance issue, he should present that to 
Fairmead for their consideration. In the absence of such evidence, I dont consider that 
Fairmead acted unfairly or unreasonably when they declined the claim. I say this because - 
based on the weather reports and the policys definition of storm - Im satisfied that it was 
reasonable for Fairmead to decline the claim on the basis that no storm had taken place. 
Im sorry for what Mr L has been through. I understand that hes been unable to have the 
damage caused by the ingress of water rectified whilst his claim has been outstanding. And I 
appreciate that this has caused a lot of inconvenience. But, for the reasons Ive explained 
above, I dont consider that Fairmead should be held responsible. And I dont intend to 
uphold the complaint. 
Response to my provisional decision
Neither Fairmead nor Mr L responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new points have been raised, I remain of the view I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman