DRN-3161951
The complaint
Mr W complains about his buy to let mortgage with The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB). He 
says that the property was over-valued when he bought it. This means hes now in negative 
equity and cant sell to repay the mortgage. He complains that hes been overcharged 
interest during the mortgage term and is not being treated fairly now its come to an end.
What happened
Mr W took out a buy to let mortgage with TMB on a property valued at £180,000. He 
borrowed around £153,000 on interest only terms over a ten year term.
The term of the mortgage came to an end in 2017. Mr W says he cant repay the capital. The 
property is only worth around £90,000, he believes, so he cant sell it and raise enough to 
repay. Mr W says that the property was overvalued and that TMB should not have valued it 
at £180,000 or lent him so much money. He wants it to agree to let him sell the property and 
write off any shortfall that results.
Mr W also complains that the mortgage interest rate is too high, which has restricted his 
ability to make payments to reduce the balance. Hes overpaying to reduce it as much as he 
can, but TMB isnt happy with that and has threatened him with repossession to get its 
money back. Mr W doesnt think hes been treated fairly.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. So Mr W asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It does seem Mr W is in a difficult position, and for that he has my sympathy. He bought an 
investment property in a newly built block of apartments in 2007  just before the financial 
and property market crash. Looking at the history of sales in the block since, it seems that 
prices fell around the time of the 2008-9 crash and have never fully recovered. So it does 
seem likely that Mr Ws property is in substantial negative equity.
That doesnt mean, though, that the property was overvalued. Several others in the block 
were sold around the same time for similar prices.
And in any case, even if Mr W did pay too much for the property at the time  rather than 
paying the market value at the time which has since fallen  TMB wouldnt be responsible for 
that. Ultimately it was Mr Ws decision to buy the property at a price he considered to be a 
fair one. And buying property always carries the risk that prices can go down as well as up.
Ive not seen any evidence that the valuation carried out by TMB was wrong. And in any 
case, the valuation was not carried out by TMB, it was carried out by an independent 
qualified surveyor. The purpose of the valuation wasnt to advise Mr W whether or not to buy 
the property, it was to advise TMB whether the property was good security for the mortgage. 
TMB was entitled to rely on the surveyors opinion in deciding whether to lend. And I dont 
think theres any evidence that it did anything wrong, or that its responsible if the property is 
now not worth what Mr W paid for it.
That means I dont think it would be fair to expect TMB to write off any shortfall that would 
result from Mr W selling the property. Mr W took the business decision to buy this property 
as a rental investment to profit from; theres always a commercial risk with that type of 
venture and if things havent worked out as he hoped, that doesnt mean it would be fair to 
transfer the consequences of that from Mr W to TMB.
The mortgage term ended in 2017, and its not unreasonable that TMW now wants Mr W to 
repay the capital, as he agreed in 2007 that he would. I think TMW has shown reasonable 
forbearance in allowing the mortgage to continue for over four years after the end of the 
term. But ultimately Mr W will need to find a way to repay  and I dont think its fair to expect 
TMB to wait while Mr W pays £500 extra each month, as that would mean it would take 
another 25 years to repay the remaining balance.
Nor do I think its fair to expect TMB to wait while the property price recovers. It hasnt in the 
last twelve or more years, and theres no guarantee that it will do so in a reasonable time  if 
ever.
In his various conversations with TMB, Mr W has said that he owns other properties which 
he is trying to sell to use the proceeds to repay this mortgage. So it seems he does have 
some options to repay. I would urge him to continue discussing matters with TMB and trying 
to find a way to repay the mortgage. TMB should continue to treat him fairly and will need to 
give fair consideration to any proposals he makes, but cant be expected to wait indefinitely 
to be repaid the money it lent.
Mr W also complains about the interest rate on the mortgage. He says that if it was lower he 
would have repaid more of the capital by now. He took out a two year rate in 2007, and the 
mortgage has been on the standard variable rate (SVR) ever since.
Mr Ws mortgage has operated as it was supposed to, in line with the terms and conditions. 
Theres no obligation on TMB to give him a new interest rate, and TMB has in fact not 
offered new rates to any of its customers for many years. Its not put any barriers in the way 
of Mr W moving his mortgage to a new lender, and wrote to him some years back advising 
him that he could explore moving his mortgage to another lender in the same banking group.
Mr W hasnt been able to move his mortgage elsewhere, because of the negative equity 
situation. Thats unfortunate, but as Ive explained TMB isnt responsible for that and I dont 
think its treated Mr W unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman