DRN-1317262
The complaint
Mr R complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited asked him to pay an additional 
premium in relation to his motor insurance policy after he changed his car.
What happened
In August 2018, Mr R renewed his motor policy with Acromas. He paid an annual premium of 
£357.96. In November 2018, Mr R changed his car. Acromas asked him to pay an additional 
total amount of £331.62.62, which Mr R paid.
In August 2019, Acromas sent out renewal documentation and offered to renew the policy at 
an annual premium of £734.45. Mr R complained that hed been overcharged as hed 
obtained cheaper quotes with other insurers.  He didnt renew his policy with Acromas and 
took out insurance with another provider.
Mr R says that Acromas overcharged him. He wants a refund of premium. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Acromas had 
treated Mr R unfairly. Mr R didnt agree with the investigator and asked that an ombudsman 
considers his complaint. He said Acromas didnt give a reason why the premium doubled.  
Mr R said that his new car had a smaller engine and was cheaper to buy than his previous 
car. He said that he could get much cheaper cover elsewhere. 
An investigator asked Acromas for some further information, but it didnt change the previous 
investigators view. So, the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When calculating premiums, insurers take into consideration a very large number of
risk rating factors. In other words, they assess the level of risk each policyholder poses and 
the likelihood of them making a claim in the future by looking at many different factors.  Its 
not down to me to tell an insurer what factors it should take into account when assessing 
risk, nor how to go about those assessments. Thats essentially a matter  of commercial 
judgement and not something with which we would usually think its fair to interfere.
One of the reasons why different insurers charge different premiums for the
same risk is because each insurer has its own view of risk. Insurers give differing levels of 
importance to various factors. Insurers base their views on risks using statistics and other 
data. In Mr Rs case, Acromas considers that there is a difference in risk between his 
previous car and his new car. As insurance is essentially an assessment of risk, I dont think 
theres anything wrong with Acromas considering whether or not certain changes fall into 
higher risk groupings and so wish to charge a higher premium to cover that risk.
When changes occur mid-term  such as a change in car  we think its right that only the 
elements of the calculation which should change are those relating to the changed 
circumstance. Acromas has provided me with information to show how Mr Rs additional 
premium was calculated. That information is commercially sensitive, so I can't share it with 
Mr R. I know that is frustrating for Mr R but, having looked at it carefully, Im satisfied that 
Acromas  treated Mr R fairly and in the same way as it would treat other policyholders in 
similar circumstances. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman