DRN-2213645
The complaint
Mr T complains as a director of a company, D, that Aviva Insurance Limited has declined its 
claim for malicious damage under its let property/residential property owners policy. 
What happened
In February 2016, through its agents D let its property under a shorthold tenancy agreement. 
The tenant paid his rent through housing benefit. At all times the agents were responsible for 
inspecting and maintaining the property. Inspections were carried out in May and November 
2016. In March 2017, a female member of the agency staff attended, but felt intimidated by 
the tenant and his friends. Its not clear whether any inspection took place. In September 
2017, the agents were alerted by the tenants housing support officer that there was damage 
to the property. The agents managed to attend the property in November 2017 when they 
noted damage, consisting of holes in the wall, ripped up skirting boards and broken 
windows. The boiler was also damaged and the gas had to be capped off.
Based on the damage caused, the agents served a notice seeking possession on the tenant. 
They didnt act on it straight away, as it was felt that it would be better for the housing 
support officer to contact the tenant and find suitable alternative accommodation. Following 
cessation of housing benefit payments in late March 2018, the agents visited the property 
and found it to be abandoned, it had also suffered considerably more damage. A claim was 
made to Aviva, who appointed loss adjusters.
The loss adjusters discovered that the tenant had been sentenced to a term of imprisonment 
in March 2018. With that in mind and having been informed the property had been without 
heating or hot water since November, Aviva said the property was unoccupied, which the 
agents, and D should have known. It also said the agents had failed to carry out regular 
inspections before the loss nor did they carry out inspections every seven days post loss. 
Aviva also said D had failed to notify it of the damage within 30 days and had failed to 
maintain the property. It said the failures meant that Avivas position was prejudiced in being 
unable fairly to assess the claim and extent of damage.
A substantial number of photographs were taken. Aviva indicated that a lot of the damage 
related to wear and tear and damp. D has now had refurbishment work carried out to the 
property. This includes a substantial amount of work in connection with the damp problem. D 
agrees thats not part of the claim. 
On referral to this service our investigator said she failed to see what wouldve changed had 
Ds agents inspected every seven days or reported the damage sooner or why this is 
material to the loss.
Aviva disagreed, but hasnt set out in detail why it thinks the failures are material to the loss.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Essentially Aviva has put forward five grounds on which it has declined this claim, that D had 
failed to:
conduct regular inspections to detect any defects;
maintain the property in a satisfactory state of repair;
take all reasonable precautions to prevent loss, destruction or damage to the property; 
comply with claims condition 4 (to report any claim within 30 days); and
carry out an internal and external inspection every seven days (otherwise the matter 
could have been acted upon promptly to protect the property and Ds own and insurers 
interest.)
I will review each of these grounds and in particular decide whether, if there was non-
compliance with any of them, it would have made a material difference to the claim.
failure to conduct regular inspections
The policy doesnt say how regularly the property needs to be inspected in normal 
circumstances. Aviva has referred to the statement of facts sent with the policy when issued 
is the property in good condition and will it be maintained as such with regular inspections to 
detect any defects?, to which D replied yes. Aviva hasnt sought to avoid the policy and, as 
far as anyone was aware from the inspections which did take place, the property was in a 
reasonable condition. The property was inspected twice in 2016, with no apparent issues. In 
March 2017 although an employee of the agents visited the property, its not clear whether 
any inspection took place. I think it fair to assume that no particular issues were identified.
So no damage was noted until the November 2017 inspection. The agents were alerted to 
this by the housing support officer in late September but it appears that the agents werent 
able to get into the property until November despite trying earlier.
Given the concerns the agents had in March 2017, is it likely that more inspections could 
have prevented the damage taking place? I cant say that they would. Although the 
employee felt intimidated there didnt appear to be concerns that the property might be 
suffering damage.
Mr T says the damage identified in November was minor and would most likely not have 
resulted in a claim. I think though that the damage was extensive enough to lead the agents 
to immediately save a notice seeking possession.
fail to maintain or take reasonable precautions to prevent loss or damage etc
Prior to the claim, as Ive said, I dont think that more regular inspections would have 
prevented the damage occurring. I think from the photos it does look like the property was in 
a poor state. But bearing in mind that the claim is for malicious damage, I cant say that this 
is otherwise relevant to the condition of the property.
As regards the situation following the November 2017 damage, Aviva has noted that the gas 
was capped off, leaving the property without hot water or heating in the winter. But again in 
relation to a claim for malicious damage, I cant see that this is material to the loss. I 
understand the system was later drained down.
fail to comply with claim condition 4This says that the policyholder must tell Aviva immediately of any event or occurrence that 
may result in a claim and in any event no later than 30 days of becoming aware of such 
event or occurrence.
The damage noted in November 2017 wasnt reported until late April 2018. I believe the 
agent didnt make D aware of this until April 2018. Mr T says the November damage was 
minor, but as Ive said I dont think it was. But there was more extensive damage noted in 
April 2018. This was reported within 30 days. If Aviva had been made aware of the damage 
then Im not clear what it could have done about it. Its likely that it would have asked to 
assess the damage but this couldnt have happened until the tenant allowed further 
inspection or left the premises. And a possession order was unlikely to have been granted 
before April 2018 even if proceedings had been issued straightaway. Or Aviva might well 
have asked for photos to be taken, which they were. Again this being a claim for malicious 
damage I cant see that the non-reporting of the November damage made any difference to 
the claim.
fail to carry out an internal and external inspection every seven days
Aviva hasnt made this clear, but this condition only applies if the property is unoccupied. 
Aviva says it was unoccupied, pointing to the fact that the property had no heating or hot 
water. Its loss adjusters also identified that the tenant was sentenced to a term of 
imprisonment in March 2018 and Aviva says the agent would have known this. I think it just 
speculation that the tenant had left the property before then, and I think it would have been 
difficult to establish this. I see no reason to disbelieve the point that the housing support 
officer was negotiating to find the tenant other accommodation. And whilst the tenant might 
not have fully occupied the property his rent was still being paid and he was effectively in 
control of it. If the agents werent alerted to it, they wouldnt have known about the tenant 
being sentenced, and given this was in March, its highly likely the damage would have 
happened by then. 
In view of the fact that D didnt know the property was unoccupied, there would have been 
no requirement for an inspection every seven days. So I dont think this was a failure on Ds 
part.
  
Putting things right
I think that Aviva should consider the whole claim for malicious damage, in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions. As the work done clearly incudes uninsured work, like 
damp prevention, Aviva will have to assess the repairs which are due to the malicious 
damage and pay the relevant proportion of any invoices. 
As its a limited company I cant award compensation to D for distress but I do think it has 
been caused some inconvenience so Aviva should pay compensation of £150. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to act in accordance with what 
Ive said under Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman