DRN-3311002
The complaint
Mr G complains PayrNet Limited blocked his Pockit account and havent released money 
held in the account back to him despite agreeing to do so.
The Pockit account is a pre-paid payment card administered by PayrNet Limited.
What happened
Mr G had a Pockit account. 
In June 2021, Pockit decided to review Mr Gs account. Whilst it completed its review Pockit 
blocked Mr Gs account.  At the time Mr Gs balance was just over £100. As part of its review 
Pockit asked Mr G to provide proof of his identification, address and to explain how he used 
his account. 
In response, Mr G sent Pockit pictures of his driving licence, passport, and a copy of a bank 
statement for an account he held with another bank. And he told Pockit he used his account 
for personal use. Pockit sent Mr G an automated email response thanking him for sending in 
the information. But said it couldnt provide a timeframe for when it would complete its 
review. And Mr Gs account remained blocked.
Over the following months, Mr G sent Pockit several emails to try and find out what was 
happening with his account.  But Pockit didnt respond. In September 2021, Pockit said it 
needed more information and asked Mr G how he funded his account and to explain how he 
used his account. Mr G answered Pockit and told them that he was in a vulnerable position 
due to a disability and needed the money in his account released. 
In October 2021, Pockit wrote to Mr G and told him it was closing his account and would be 
returning his account balance back to him if he provided a bank statement. Mr G sent Pockit 
a recent bank statement, but to date Pockit still havent returned Mr Gs account balance to 
him. 
Mr G complained to our service. He said he had other accounts to use, but the lack of 
contact and waiting for his balance had been frustrating. He said he had to spend time 
writing emails to Pockit over several months and was still waiting for his balance to be 
released despite Pockit saying it would give him his money in October 2021. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint.  He said Pockit hadnt treated Mr G 
fairly and that Pockit should return Mr Gs funds with interest and pay him £50 compensation 
for the trouble and upset hed suffered. Mr G agreed. Pockit asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. So, the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pockit has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts 
to customers. And it must take certain actions in order to meet these obligations. Theyre 
also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and existing relationships. That 
sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  either in full or partially while 
they carry out a review.
Having looked at the information Pockit relied upon, including how Mr G was operating his 
account, Im satisfied that they were complying with these obligations when they blocked 
Mr Gs account and asked him for information. The terms and conditions of Mr Gs account 
also permit Pockit to block an account and Im satisfied Pockit acted in line with them. So, I 
cant say Pockit did anything wrong when it decided to review Mr Gs account. 
However, while Pockit are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a 
timely manner and without undue delay. Pockit initially blocked Mr Gs account in June 2021.  
I can see that Pockit asked Mr G to provide it with information at the time, however, his 
account remained blocked with no further contact until 2 September 2021, when Pockit 
wrote to Mr G asking him to provide some more information. I dont consider 
little or no contact for more than four months to be reasonable or fair.
 
By October 2021, it seems Pockit had completed its review  I say this because at this point 
it told Mr G it was closing his account and was happy to release his balance on production of 
a bank statement. Pockit hasnt offered much in the way of any explanation for why its 
review of Mr Gs account took as long as it did to complete and why it still hasnt released Mr 
Gs balance. 
I find this quite puzzling especially as Pockit told Mr G in October 2021, that it was closing 
his account and said it would release his balance via bank transfer if he provided it with a 
copy of a recent bank statement. Despite the investigator asking Pockit to explain why it 
hasnt followed through with this action it hasnt done so. Pockit also hasnt provided any 
evidence that Mr G isnt entitled to the balance of his account. So, Im not aware of any 
reasonable explanation as to why Pockit should consider it fair or appropriate to keep 
Mr Gs balance. It follows that Pockit should release Mr Gs balance to him and add interest 
for loss of use of these funds. 
I can see that Mr G sent several emails to Pockit over a number of months chasing the 
release of the money in his account. He made Pockit aware that he was disabled, and he 
needed the funds.  But I havent seen anything to suggest Pockit reached out to him, 
responded to his emails in a timely manner or acknowledged he maybe in a vulnerable 
position.  So, overall, Im not satisfied that Pockit has treated Mr G fairly and reasonably. I 
think having to wait again to access his funds has caused extra distress. Because of this, I 
think Pockit should also pay Mr G £50 compensation to recognise the trouble and upset this 
matter has caused him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint. To put things right PayrNet Limited 
should:
Pay Mr G £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the time taken to 
complete its review and poor communication
Refund Mr G the balance of his account along with 8% interest simple per year from 
the date it was blocked until the date of refundUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman