DRN-2842467
The complaint
This complaint is about a new mortgage Mrs C took out in 2020 with Nationwide Building 
Society. Shes unhappy that Nationwide misled her about what would happen to the refund 
of the early repayment charge (ERC) that had been levied earlier in 2020 when a previous 
mortgage (held jointly with her former husband) was redeemed. 
What happened
Our decisions are published and its important that I dont include any information here that 
might result in Mrs C being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words and 
then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Also, any figures I may have referenced 
are rounded.
Mrs C had as joint mortgage with Mr C, from whom she was getting a divorce. Their former 
home was sold in the summer of 2020, and an ERC was levied on redemption of the joint 
mortgage. Mrs C then decided to buy a new home on her own; she borrowed around 
£400,000, approximately half of which was taken by porting the rate that had applied to the 
joint mortgage. This allowed for an ERC refund of around £6,000, and Mrs C was expecting 
to receive all of it.
When the new mortgage completed, Nationwide sent the ERC refund to the firm of solicitors 
that had acted for Mrs C and Mr C jointly in the redemption of the previous mortgage. 
Unfortunately, by the time of the ERC refund, the solicitors (Ill refer to the firm here as O) 
were acting solely for Mr C. 
Initially, O sent the full £6,000 to Mr C; it recovered the funds when Mrs C complained to 
Nationwide but subsequently sent the money to him again.
Nationwide apologised for having given Mrs C wrong information about what would happen 
to the ERC, and paid her £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience. Mrs C refused 
the £500, and it went back to Nationwide. Mrs C referred her complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong in sending the ERC refund 
to O; that was consistent with its normal procedures. But he agreed Nationwides mortgage 
advisor had misled Mrs C about what would happen to the ERC. However, he wasnt 
convinced she was worse off financially as a result of that. Overall, he considered 
Nationwides offer of £500 compensation to be fair.
Mrs C has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. In doing so, she 
asked if the reviewing ombudsman would speak to her directly. The investigator explained 
that would only happen if the ombudsman judged it necessary for him or her to do that. Ive 
looked at everything both parties have said provided; Im satisfied I have all I need to decide 
the complaint fairly without speaking directly to either party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to seek further evidence or treat existing 
evidence in a particular way at Mrs Cs insistence.
Mrs C has asked to see Nationwide internal policy document on ERC refunds. Our rules 
permit either party to a complaint to submit evidence in confidence; and Nationwide has 
availed itself of that provision. Its for me to decide if its fair that the document should be 
relied on whilst still remaining confidential. Overall, I think it is fair; on the one hand, its a 
sensitive internal document; on the other hand, its relevant to the outcome of the complaint. 
Its for me to decide when I have enough information and evidence to determine a complaint, 
and its for me to decide how much weight I should attach to the evidence I do have. We 
reach our findings on what we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of 
probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Entitlement to receive the ERC refund
At one stage in the complaint dialogue, Mrs C took issue with Nationwide referring to the 
ERC refund being equally due Mrs C and Mr C legally. I can understand Mrs Cs concern, 
but I think this was slightly careless use of language on Nationwides part. 
The trigger for the ERC refund may have been Mrs C taking out her new mortgage, but the 
ERC itself derived from a provision in the joint mortgage contract. The ERC was incurred by 
Mrs C and Mr C under the joint contract, so the refund was due equally to both of them, but 
contractually rather than legally. 
Its precisely because of this that lenders generally (not just Nationwide) will have a policy of 
directing ERC refunds to the firm of solicitors or conveyancers that redeemed the mortgage 
on which the ERC arose; it sends the money back to where it came from in the first place. 
So, on that aspect of the complaint, Im satisfied Nationwide did nothing wrong; it did exactly 
what Id expect it to do.
What happened to the refund after it was received by O was a matter entirely between Mrs C 
and Mr C, possibly to be determined by reference to the terms of any financial settlement 
linked to their divorce. It wasnt something for Nationwide to get involved in, and nor is it 
something for me to determine either. Its my understanding that whilst the case has been 
with us, Mr C has shared half of the ERC with Mrs C. Theres nothing further for me to do in 
this regard.
What Nationwide told Mrs C and what effect it had on her choice of mortgage
Where Nationwide did go wrong (and I think its fair to say all parties are in agreement here) 
is that throughout the new mortgage process, its advisor didnt make any of the above clear 
to Mrs C. Mrs C was allowed to believe that the entire £6,000 ERC refund would come to her 
after shed completed the new mortgage, and  it was with this expectation that she chose a Nationwide mortgage with two different interest rate products, one of which was ported from 
the joint mortgage. 
When someone acts in reliance on wrong information, we have to consider whether and how 
they might have acted differently if theyd been given the right information. Mrs C has told us 
she wouldnt have bothered with the complexity of two different rate products. Shes sent us 
the quotation she received via a broker for a mortgage with a different lender, on a lower rate 
than she got from Nationwide.  Ive thought hard about that.
Its common ground that Mrs C thought she was entitled to the full £6,000 ERC refund; as 
Ive explained, that was never the case under the original contract. So £6,000 cant be my 
reference point when assessing detriment. Mrs C has received £3,000, and in the absence 
of any evidence to suggest she was entitled to more than that as a result of any matrimonial 
settlement, Ive used £3,000 as my reference point.
If Mrs C had taken the lower rate with the different lender, shed have paid less interest over 
the duration of the initial product, but shed have received no ERC refund at all. The interest 
saving is less than the ERC refund, so Im satisfied theres no financial detriment to Mrs C 
having taken the Nationwide mortgage in reliance on wrong information. 
Mrs C might still have chosen a different lender from Nationwide, if only to ensure Mr C 
didnt find out about the transaction, which was largely unavoidable if she stayed with 
Nationwide to generate an ERC refund. That takes me to the question of compensation.
Compensation for Mrs Cs time, trouble and upset 
Ive no doubt Mrs C has found this episode immensely stressful. Shes talked about how 
upset she was when Mr C received the money; not just that in itself, but that it meant he 
found out shed taken the mortgage out. Mrs C considers this a breach of the General Data 
Protection Regulation. On a technical level, thats a matter best dealt with by the Information 
Commissioners Office. My remit is more general than that.
Keeping her affairs private from Mr C was clearly important to Mrs C. As Ive already said, 
taking a mortgage with Nationwide to get an ERC refund rendered that virtually impossible, 
because he had a joint entitlement to the refund with Mrs C under the original contract. The 
only way Mrs C could have made sure Mr C didnt find out about her new mortgage was, as 
I alluded to earlier, to have taken it on terms that meant no ERC refund was due.
The point here is that Mrs C was denied the opportunity to make an informed choice. That, 
more than anything, is why she was always due compensation from Nationwide for having 
failed to inform her correctly about what would happen with the ERC refund. 
That said, Nationwide has offered her compensation, and the amount it offered was not 
insubstantial. Overall, considering everything the parties have said and provided, and given 
all the circumstances, I find £500 to be fair compensation. If Nationwide hadnt offered this 
amount already, I would not be awarding more.
Mrs C doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if she doesnt, then neither she nor 
Nationwide will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions 
a court might impose, Mrs Cs right to take legal action against Nationwide over the subject 
matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. If on further reflection, Mrs C decides she wishes to accept the 
offer of £500 in full and final settlement, then she can do so by contacting Nationwide 
directly. My final decision concludes this services consideration of, and involvement in, this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman