DRN-4169689
The complaint
Mr Ks complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) have 
unreasonably refused to deal with the claim made on his employers group critical illness 
cover after his father was diagnosed with a type of cancer.
What happened
Mr K benefits from a group critical illness policy provided by his employer.  The policy 
provides cover for him and  if he chooses - for members of his family.
In March 2020, Mr K added his father  who Ill refer to as F, to distinguish him from Mr K - to 
the policy.  Initially, the policy provided £25,000 worth of cover in the event of F being 
diagnosed with a covered illness.   On 1 March 2022, Mr K increased the amount of cover 
for F from £25,000 to £250,000. 
About two weeks after the cover was increased, F consulted a doctor about symptoms he 
was experiencing.  At the end of March 2022, he was sadly diagnosed with cancer. 
Mr K and F made a claim on the group policy.  F provided L&G with authority to obtain 
medical information from his doctors.  The consent form required L&G to gather this within 
six months of the date it was signed.
L&G approached Fs doctors but didnt receive all the information they thought they needed 
to assess the claim, so they sought further clarification.  Mr K and F objected to this on the 
basis that:
L&G were requesting details of Fs consultation with his GP when he attended with 
the symptoms.  Mr K and F said this was included in what L&G had already received 
and was too general a request; and
L&G had had a consent form covering a six month period, which was ample time to 
obtain what they needed.  F declined to provide any further consent.
They asked L&G to deal with the claim on the basis of the information already received.  
L&G said they couldnt do this, because they hadnt received what they needed to decide if 
an exclusion applied to Fs claim.   If consent to obtain further information wasnt given, L&G 
said they wouldnt be able to assess the claim.
Mr K complained.  L&G didnt change their position.  So Mr K brought the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.  He told us he thought L&Gs information requests were too 
broad, the complaint hadnt been assessed within a reasonable time and that L&G hadnt 
followed the law or the Association of British Insurers (ABI) Code of Practice.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded L&G didnt need to do anything 
more to resolve it.  She was satisfied there was no medical information pre-dating either the 
start of cover, or the point at which the level of cover increased.  So it was fair to say L&G 
didnt have what they needed to decide if the exclusion of pre-existing conditions applied in 
Fs case.
Mr K and F didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding this complaint.  I know this will be very disappointing for 
Mr K, and for F.  I hope it will help if I explain the reasons for my decision.  Id like to assure 
Mr K that I have looked at everything he  and L&G  have provided.  So, if I dont refer to a 
particular point or piece of evidence, its not because I havent thought about it.  Rather, I 
dont consider it changes the outcome of the complaint. 
And I think it would help if I clarified what I do.  Its not my role to decide whether the claim 
should be paid.  Rather, I have to decide whether L&Gs position - that they dont have 
enough information to assess the claim  is reasonable.  And our service is an alternative to 
using the courts.  We dont make the same judgments a court would.  So, while I can see Mr 
K has made a number of comments about L&G acting illegally, thats not something I can 
decide. 
The key issue here is whether L&G have enough evidence to reach a conclusion on whether 
to pay Fs claim.  Mr K says they do and to request more is excessive and unnecessary.  I 
can see L&G have told him that they think Fs consultation notes are relevant and want to 
consider them.
Theres no dispute that F was diagnosed with cancer.  Nor that the diagnosis was made very 
shortly after there was a substantial increase in the amount of cover.  L&G wrote to Mr K in 
September 2022 and explained they needed to decide whether there were any policy 
exclusions relevant to the claim.  L&G highlighted the following term:
We will not pay benefit for any insured condition occurring within two years of an insured 
persons cover starting under the scheme that has resulted from any related condition for 
which they:
i. Have received treatment
ii. Have, or had, symptoms of
iii. Have sought advice on or,
iv. Were aware of
And they told Mr K this also applies to any increase in benefit.  I think its reasonable for L&G 
to consider whether the exclusion applies.  
Ive studied the medical evidence on the file.  This shows F consulted a doctor in mid-March 
2022, his diagnosis, and the course of treatment he followed.  But I cant see any evidence 
about when F first noticed anything amiss, or that the mid-March consultation was the first 
time he had sought medical advice about his symptoms.
I think it was reasonable for L&G to seek evidence to verify this, so they could satisfy 
themselves whether the claim should be paid, or whether it was excluded. 
Mr K has said the request is excessive, and against the guidance given by the ABI, which he 
says tells medical practitioners they should not provide patient notes.  Ive considered that 
guidance, but I think L&G have followed it.  The guidance explains practitioners should be cautious about providing complete medical histories in response to a subject access request 
(SAR).   
But thats not what happened here.  L&G requested information covering a specific period  
the period during which an exclusion may apply  to help them establish when F first had 
symptoms.  Thats clearly relevant to considering the claim.  So I dont think it was 
unreasonable.
Mr K has referred to other decisions made by our ombudsmen, which he says are relevant to 
his complaint.  Those ombudsmen did find insurers requests to be inappropriate.  
We consider each complaint on its own merits.  So previous decisions dont set a precedent 
which Im bound to follow.  But, even if I were, I dont think the decisions Mr K has 
referenced are relevant here.  In those cases, claimants entire medical history was provided 
to the insurer, which then used information unrelated to the claimants illnesses to decline 
the claim.  Thats not whats happened in this instance.  Rather, L&G are requesting extracts 
of Fs medical history for a specific period, to assess whether the condition was pre-existing 
at the start of the cover, or when it was increased.  I think thats reasonable.
Finally, Ive thought about the complaint about how long L&G have taken to request medical 
evidence.  Mr K and F have objected to F providing further consent, because they say L&G 
should have been able to gather what they needed within the six months contained in the 
original consent form.
Ive thought carefully about this.  Ive seen that L&G didnt receive medical evidence directly 
from Fs doctors, but via Mr K and F, who had asked to see reports before they were sent to 
L&G.  F was entitled to make that choice.  But I have to take into account it did mean that 
L&G didnt get the information as quickly as they might have done.
The evidence supplied shows that L&G pursued medical evidence from the first week in May 
 about a week after the claim form was submitted.  And this information was assessed as it 
was received.  Im satisfied from what Ive seen that there werent long periods of delay 
when L&G could have considered the evidence, but didnt.  I can see they were pursuing 
various routes to get what they felt they needed to assess the claim.  So I cant say it was 
their fault they didnt have what they needed by the time the consent expired.
The claim has now stalled, because L&G havent received what they need, and F wont 
renew his consent for any more information.   I understand Mr K and F have been frustrated 
by the length of time it has taken L&G to gather evidence.  But, as Ive explained above, I 
think what they are seeking is reasonable to establish whether the claim should be paid, or 
falls within the policy exclusions.  So I cant say they should pay the claim, on the basis of 
what they have.
Its up to F if he wants to provide further consent to allow L&G to request the information 
they need.  If he does that, Id expect L&G to assess the claim taking account of the new 
evidence they gather.  But, as things stand, I dont think they need to do any more to resolve 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint about Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman