DRN-4069387
The complaint
Mr G complains about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited handled his claim for 
a water leak under his home insurance policy.
What happened
As the circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, Ill summarise what happened.
Mr G got in touch with RSA in May 2022 after being alerted to a significant water leak 
from a pipe underneath his home.
RSA appointed a drainage company, C, to look into the problem. After initially 
declining the pipe claim, RSA accepted it.
C carried out work to the pipe in August  but this didnt resolve the leak. It carried 
out further work and the leak was stopped in November.
Mr G complained about the way the claim had been handled.
RSA conceded the claim had been handled poorly. It paid £150 compensation. After 
the problems continued, it offered a further £500 compensation.
Our investigator didnt think this went far enough to put things right. He thought 
compensation should be increased to £800 in total to take into account the distress 
and inconvenience caused by the way the claim was handled.
RSA accepted this. Mr G didnt. He said as of March 2023 the claim was ongoing and 
continued to cause him distress and inconvenience and interfere with his daily life.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The scope of this complaint is the way RSA handled the claim from the outset to the time the 
leak was fixed in November 2022. I understand the claim continued after that as internal 
repairs to the water damaged areas were carried out. If Mr G is unhappy with how the claim 
was handled after November 2022, hes entitled to raise a new complaint with RSA.
Theres no dispute now that the claim for the pipe damage or the internal water damage was 
covered by the policy  or that the claim was handled poorly. The dispute is simply about 
how much RSA should pay to fairly compensate Mr G for that. As both parties are broadly 
agreed on what went wrong, Ill summarise the key points:
The claim was initially declined for wear and tear despite C not finding the source of 
the leak. Mr G had to battle with C to have it accepted.
Overall, it took from May to November to repair the leak. That was too long and 
allowed the water damage to worsen in the meantime.
Mr G and his family had to move into alternative accommodation to facilitate the 
building repairs. He questions whether this would have been necessary had the leak 
been stopped promptly.
C made a number of appointments that it didnt keep. It didnt communicate clearly, 
promptly, or proactively.
The local water authority alerted Mr G to the leak and continued to chase him to 
resolve it, including threatening legal action against him because it remained 
outstanding for so long.
C carried out poor workmanship. For example, it replaced the pipe at too shallow a 
depth, so it had to be replaced a second time. It also caused damage to the property, 
including the outdoor tap, plants, planters, guttering, paving slabs and the driveway.
This isnt an exhaustive list of everything that went wrong, but it does highlight some of the 
most significant problems.
Taking all of this into account, I can understand why Mr G feels badly let down by RSA. Its 
claim notes show he expressed many times the extent of the leak, the pressure he was 
under from the local water authority and the urgency of the situation. Despite that, the claim 
was declined without clear and persuasive evidence to support that position. And once 
accepted, it moved slowly. Mr G usually had to chase for an update on progress or to prompt 
the next steps. RSA itself had to chase C at times, which added to the delay.
Having to replace the pipe a second time also added to the delay. I think it would have been 
very frustrating and distressing for Mr G to think the leak had been stopped and the building 
repairs could progress  only to find out that wasnt the case and the work needed to restore 
his home to its former condition couldnt progress.
Overall, Im satisfied there was clearly a significant delay and poor communication. And that 
undoubtedly caused avoidable distress and inconvenience to Mr G and his family.
Whilst its possible an early repair of the pipe may have avoided the need for alternative 
accommodation, I havent seen persuasive evidence this was likely the case. The leak was 
significant, wasnt noticed immediately, and its inevitable much damage would have been 
caused before it could have reasonably been stopped. So Im not satisfied it would be fair to 
hold RSA responsible for the need for alternative accommodation.
I understand RSA and/or C agreed to put right any damage C caused. Thats the right thing 
to do, but I think it should have been done more proactively to minimise the distress and 
disruption to Mr G.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied a total of £800 compensation is reasonable for the 
avoidable distress and inconvenience caused up to the time the leak was repaired in 
November 2022. I havent considered events beyond that time. If RSA has paid any 
compensation amounts already, it need only pay the remainder.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay a total of £800 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman