DRN-4253730
The complaint
Mr R complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) wont refund £2,500 he 
lost to a cryptocurrency investment scam in December 2021.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr R authorised the two disputed payments he made to his 
Coinbase wallet from his Virgin Money account (where his funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammers from his crypto wallet). The payments were requested 
using his legitimate security credentials provided by Virgin Money, and the starting 
position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for 
legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Virgin Money should have done more to prevent Mr R 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that overall, Mr R has lost £2,500. But this amount wasnt paid in one large 
or out of character transaction. It was spread over two separate smaller increments 
across two days which, in my judgment, would not have appeared particularly unusual or 
out of character such that they ought to have been regarded as suspicious or indicating 
that he might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam. The payments were not 
significantly larger than previous payments Mr R had made from his account, so I dont 
consider either of them ought to have indicated a heightened risk of financial harm. 
There were also no other patterns of spending that would indicate a risk of fraud either, 
such as a series of payments being made on the same day. 
I can see that Virgin Money did send Mr R a One Time Passcode for the payments to 
obtain confirmation that the transfer was genuine, which he confirmed. He was also 
asked to select the reason for his payments, where he chose Investing my money 
which led to him being presented with a warning covering off the key components of 
investment scams. As Ive set out above, I dont think either of the transactions ought to 
have indicated that Mr R was at a heightened risk of financial harm given the relatively 
low value of the payments. So, I dont think Virgin Money wouldve reasonably been 
expected to intervene to ask further questions over and above the written warning it had 
already given. Im therefore satisfied Virgin Moneys actions were proportionate to the 
risk presented.
I also dont think there was anything more Virgin Money couldve done to recover the 
money either. Mr R made the payments to a Coinbase wallet in his own name, where we 
know the funds were then transferred on again to the scammer, meaning there wouldve 
been little prospect of any funds remaining in the receiving account for Virgin Money to 
recover. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr R, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Virgin Money liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman