DRN-2603039
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about the amount Amtrust Europe Limited has offered to settle their 
claim on their sofa insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs J accidentally damaged their sofa, so they claimed on their policy. Amtrust 
reviewed the claim and accepted it. However, as the original retailer was no longer in 
business Amtrust said it was unable to repair the sofa. Instead Amtrust offered a voucher for 
the original purchase price for another sofa retailer. 
Mr and Mrs J said they had a previous bad experience with the retailer Amtrust offered them 
a voucher for. Because of this Amtrust said they could have a cash payment instead, but it 
would be for 75% of the original purchase price.  Mr and Mrs J didnt think this was fair and 
complained. They said it wasnt their fault the original retailer had gone out of business and 
so Amtrust should pay them the cash amount of the original purchase price. 
Amtrust reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the cash amount offered is the 
equivalent cost of replacement. Mr and Mrs J didnt agree, they said the cash amount was 
75% of the original purchase price. As Mr and Mrs J didnt agree they brought the complaint 
here. 
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Js complaint and didnt think that Amtrust had done 
anything wrong. She found that Amtrust had offered the full original purchase price, but this 
was in a voucher for another sofa retailer. As Mr and Mrs J had chosen not to use this 
retailer, she thought it was fair for Amtrust to offer a lower cash amount as it took into 
account what it would actually cost Amtrust to provide the voucher. Mr and Mrs J didnt think 
this was fair. 
As Mr and Mrs J didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Js policy say if Amtrust is unable to repair the sofa 
it will do one of three things. These are either replace the item, provide a credit note for the 
original retailer or pay a cash settlement. 
In this case its not possible to replace the item as the original retailer is no longer trading. 
This also means its not possible for Amtrust to provide a credit note for the original retailer. 
Instead Amtrust has offered a credit note for the original purchase price for another large 
sofa retailer. 
I understand Mr and Mrs J dont want to use the alternative sofa retailer Amtrust has chosen 
which is why theyve asked for a cash settlement. And while Amtrust has agreed a cash 
settlement, its said it wouldnt be for the full original purchase price. Its not uncommon for 
insurers to offer a lower cash amount than the amount provided in vouchers with pre-agreed 
retailers. 
Ive therefore looked at whether its fair and reasonable to do so in this particular case. And 
Im satisfied it is. I say this because Mr and Mrs J have chosen not to use the retailer 
Amtrust have offered the voucher for. This is because they have previously had a bad 
experience. While I understand Mr and Mrs J may not want to use them again, I dont think it 
means its fair for Amtrust to pay more than it would do for providing the voucher. So, it 
follows that Im not going to ask Amtrust to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that Amtrust Europe Limiteds offer of 
a voucher for the original purchase price, or a cash settlement of 75% of the original 
purchase price is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman