DRN-2497708
The complaint
Mr X complains that a car acquired with finance from Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr X was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
TFS.
Mr X thought the car came with a sunroof. However, after he had entered into the 
agreement, he realised that it didnt have a sunroof.
Mr X also experienced issues with one of the tyres and the windscreen wipers. He contacted 
the supplying dealer, who replaced the tyre and the wipers. 
Mr X remained unhappy.  He says the replacement tyre was of a different brand to the other 
three tyres and the wipers still smeared the windscreen. He also felt that the car had been 
misrepresented as it didnt have a sunroof.
Mr X complained to TFS. In response, TFS said Mr X had been aware that the car didnt 
have a sunroof and that the reference to a sunroof in the paperwork was an administrative 
error.
Mr X remained unhappy and complained to this service. He wants to reject the car.
Since bringing his complaint to this service, Mr X has replaced two tyres and the wipers 
himself. Hes also part exchanged the car. he wants TFS to reimburse him for the costs hes 
incurred.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think the agreement was 
misrepresented and said there was no evidence to suggest that a different brand of tyre 
would cause issues with the car. The investigator also said she hadnt seen evidence that 
the wipers had an ongoing fault following repair by the dealer.
Mr X didnt agree. He provided some information about tyres an said he expected all four 
tyres to be the same, or at least the same on each axle. He said the wipers still smeared the 
screen and that in relation to the sunroof, he wouldnt have exchanged his old car for this 
one if hed known that there wasnt a sunroof.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to find that theres been a misrepresentation, I would need to be satisfied that the 
supplying dealer made an untrue statement of fact which induced Mr X to enter into the 
agreement.
Mr X says that he found the car online and didnt see it before signing the agreement. He 
says he cant remember whether the advert stated that the car had a sunroof or not. He 
relies on the agreement itself, which states that the car has a sunroof. He also relies on the 
120-point inspection where there is a tick next to the sunroof.
There arent any notes of the discussions between Mr X and the supplying dealer leading up 
to the agreement being signed, so I cant be certain of what was said (if anything) about the 
sunroof. I havent been provided with a copy of the advert for the car, so Im unable to say 
whether the car was advertised as having a sunroof.
Ive looked at the available documents. Whilst the agreement does refer to a sunroof, TFS 
has said that this is an administrative error. And the invoice for the car doesnt make any 
reference to a sunroof. Looking at the wider circumstances here, if a sunroof had been a 
main factor in Mr Xs decision to buy the car, I wouldve expected him to check that it was 
present  and to raise this with the supplying dealer when collecting the car if it wasnt 
present. Theres no evidence that Mr X did so  in fact, it was a few days before he 
mentioned the absence of a sunroof.
Allowing for the error in the agreement, I think there was enough other information, as well 
as the opportunity to inspect the car, to show that the car didnt have a sunroof. For these 
reasons, Im unable to say that the car was misrepresented. 
Ive gone on to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality. Theres no dispute that 
the car was supplied with a faulty tyre. The supplying dealer replaced this at no cost to Mr X, 
which is what I would expect it to do. Mr Xs dissatisfaction stems from the fact that the 
replaced tyre was of a different brand.
Ive considered all of the information about tyres which Mr X provided. Ultimately, theres no 
evidence to suggest that the replacement tyre caused any damage to the car, or that the 
cars performance was adversely affected.
That said, I appreciate that it is preferable to have the same tyres on each axle. Mr X has 
provided evidence to show that the replacement tyre wore unevenly. The same evidence 
showed that the wipers were still smearing the windscreen.
I can see that the supplying dealer agreed to change the tyres as a goodwill gesture. Due to 
lockdown, the supplying dealer was closed for a few weeks. During this time, Mr X had the 
tyres and wipers replaced elsewhere, and paid for these.
Ive thought about whether Mr X should be reimbursed for these costs. On balance, I dont 
think it would be fair to ask TFS to do this. Theres no evidence to suggest that the tyres 
needed replacing urgently, so Mr X could have waited until the supplying dealer re-opened, 
at which point the tyres and wipers wouldve been replaced at no charge.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im of the view that the supplying dealer carried out repirs to 
the tyre and wipers in line with its obligations under the relevant legislation. Theres no 
evidence that these repirs werent successful, or that the performance of the car was 
negatively affected.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think the car was misrepresented or of unsatisfactory 
quality and I wont be asking TFS to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr X to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman