DRN-1723977
The complaint
Miss M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) carried out a full credit 
check on her without her knowledge or permission and when it already knew it couldnt lend 
her the amount she wanted.
What happened
Miss M had an agreement in principle from first direct to give her a mortgage of £171,000. 
When she sent in her payslips, first direct carried out a full credit check. It later spoke to Miss 
M and asked for some clarification from her employer about her earnings. During that phone 
call first direct told Miss M that it had searched her credit file. And based on the information 
available to it, first direct wasnt prepared to lend her the amount she needed. Miss M 
complained that first direct had carried out a full credit check without her permission and it 
didnt make sense if it couldnt offer the amount agreed in the agreement in principle.
Our investigator didnt think that first direct had made any error.
Miss M responded to say, that first direct did not make it clear that a full credit check would 
be carried out, rather than a soft credit check that would have no impact on her credit 
score. She said it looks suspicious to other lenders if there are too many credit checks 
carried out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Miss M that it would be unfair if lenders carried out a full credit search when 
considering whether to give an agreement in principle to lend. That would restrict consumers 
ability to search the market for a suitable property. But I dont agree it was unfair or 
unreasonable for first direct to carry out a full credit search when it did and at that stage in an 
application. Ill explain why.
First direct set out clearly in the phone call it had with Miss M it would carry out a credit 
check on her and that a record of that search would be recorded on her credit file. Miss M 
said she was happy to proceed on that basis. So I consider that Miss M agreed that first 
direct could search her credit file.
It is reasonable for a lender to carry out a full credit search at the point first direct did. There 
is no requirement for lenders to look at an application in a certain order. First direct had 
given Miss M an agreement in principle which set out how much it was prepared to lend her. 
While the information on the payslips might not have supported the amount originally agreed 
 the decision might have changed again once the credit file had been looked at. While other 
lenders may do things differently, it doesnt follow that first direct has acted unreasonably.
In any case, while lenders may take into account a search footprint on a credit file, it does 
not necessarily follow that it would negatively affect a potential borrowers credit score at all 
or to such an extent that they wouldnt be able to obtain credit on competitive terms. Many 
lenders will take a more holistic view and its unlikely in my experience that one search alone 
would make a significant difference to a lenders decision. And I havent seen any evidence 
that Miss M has suffered any financial loss as a result of the information first direct recorded.
 After carefully considering the circumstances of this case I consider that first direct has 
acted fairly and reasonably. It made Miss M aware that it was going to carry out a full credit 
check and it was reasonable for it to do so at that stage of the mortgage application.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman