DRN-3362587
The complaint
Miss B complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) did not do enough to protect 
her from falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In early March 2021, Miss B was contacted by a man on an Islamic dating WhatsApp group. 
He was looking for a suitable partner for his nephew. The uncle spoke to Miss Bs mother 
about his nephew. He said that his nephew had lost his parents two years before and that he 
did a lot of charity work. The introduction was approved by Miss Bs mother. Miss B and her 
mother thought he was trustworthy and sounded genuine. 
Miss B began to interact directly with the nephew. They exchanged messages and started to 
get to know one another. On 5 March 2021, they spoke on the phone. Initially the 
conversation went well, but then the nephew became upset. He told Miss B it was 
approaching the second anniversary of his fathers death and that he wanted to build a 
mosque in Pakistan in his fathers name. He asked Miss B to send money but told her that 
he would give it back. He told her that all of his friends and family were sending money. 
Miss B explains that she was emotionally blackmailed into making a payment of just over 
£1,500 there and then.   
At 1:20am on 6 March 2021, Miss B made a payment to a money remittance service using 
her Halifax debit card. Halifax sent her a text message to confirm it was Miss B making the 
payment, to which she responded yes. After Miss B had made the payment, the nephew 
said that he would need her to send a further £1,550. He told her that he would return all of 
the money.
When they spoke the following morning, the nephew raised the further £1,550 again. Miss B 
tried to make the payment from her account held at another bank. The payment was 
blocked. 
Miss B says that the nephew became aggressive and began pestering her to call the bank, 
which made her wary. The nephew told Miss B that he still wanted all of their future plans to 
go ahead. When Miss B still wouldnt call the bank, the nephew disappeared and blocked 
her from making future contact. 
Miss B contacted Halifax to report shed been scammed. The bank declined the claim, so 
Miss B made a complaint. She explained that shed been manipulated. She said the 
fraudster had used her vulnerability to want a spouse, along with faith and charitable 
endeavours, to scam her. 
Miss B said Halifax should have done more than it did to intervene in the payment. She felt 
the bank had let her down and had not considered whether the payment was being made 
under duress.
On 28 May 2021, the bank issued its final response. It said Miss B had willingly made the 
payment. It said the funds could not be returned by the money remittance service because 
they had already been withdrawn. 
Unhappy with the banks position, Miss B referred her complaint to this service. She said the 
transaction was abnormal for her and the bank should have done more to protect her 
money. She said the scam would have been uncovered if the bank had spoken to her. 
When Halifax submitted its complaint papers, it said Miss B had not been in contact with the 
nephew for very long and made no attempt to verify him or the charity. It suggested she had 
voluntarily donated to a charitable cause. 
Our Investigator considered the matter but did not recommend the complaint should be 
upheld. She said the payment wasnt suspicious and, as a result, Halifax had not missed an 
opportunity to question Miss B about it or to identify a potential scam. She noted that whilst 
the account was used infrequently, the disputed transaction matched the same broad pattern 
for how Miss B typically used the account. She also explained that she was not persuaded 
that further intervention from the bank would have made any difference to whether Miss B 
went on to make the payment or not because of the introduction and approval that had been 
given by elders in the wider community. 
Miss B disagreed. She said that this payment did not follow the same pattern as payments 
that she had made in the past. She pointed out this was the first time that she had paid a 
money remittance company and that the transaction was suspicious because it was more 
than double the size of the largest transaction shed previously made on the account. She 
pointed out that she did not have a relationship with the fraudster and that the bank would 
have unearthed the scam if it had made contact and challenged her on why she was paying 
someone that she had never met. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can see no basis on which I can fairly require Halifax to refund the money 
Miss B paid. I can appreciate this is not the outcome Miss B was hoping for, so I will explain 
why. 
Miss B does not dispute that she made the payment. In broad terms, the starting position at 
law is that a firm is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises using their payment tools, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations 
and the terms and conditions of the customers account. This means that Miss B is 
presumed responsible for the card payment in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Halifax should fairly and reasonably:
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and preventing 
fraud and scams. 
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so 
given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Miss B when it processed a card payment of just over £1,500 or whether it should have done 
more than it did. Miss B says Halifax should have had a closer look at the circumstances 
surrounding this payment. She says the bank would have uncovered the scam if it had 
contacted her and challenged her around why she was making a payment to a person that 
she had never met. 
So Ive first thought about whether the payment Miss B made was out of character and 
unusual enough so that Halifax ought to have challenged it, and, if it had done so, whether it 
would have made a difference to what happened. 
There is a delicate balance to be struck. There are many millions of card payments made 
each day and it would not be possible or reasonable to expect a bank to check each one. 
Miss Bs bank statements in the months leading up to the disputed payment confirm that 
making card payments to a money remittance service wasnt something she typically did. 
Even so, I dont think that alone is enough to say Halifax should have treated the payment as 
suspicious. Im not persuaded this activity particularly stood out. The payment she made was 
for just over £1,500. Its not uncommon for someone to make a large payment for a specific 
purpose and on the face of it, theres nothing unusual about this payment amount in and of 
itself, even though I appreciate the amount was more than Miss B usually spends. She had 
the cleared funds available and she typically moved money into her account to use her debit 
card to make specific purchases. This would have appeared no different. For these reasons, 
I consider the transaction was unremarkable in and amongst Miss Bs spending. Against this 
backdrop, Im not persuaded that Halifax ought fairly to have intervened to find out more 
about this payment. 
But Halifax did block the payment and it sent Miss B a text message to confirm the payment 
instruction. Miss B does not dispute that she responded positively to the text alert. I dont 
think Halifax acted unreasonably by not making more extensive enquiries around the wider 
situation surrounding this payment before processing it. At this point, there was not a pattern 
of spending that should have been identified as indicative of financial harm from fraud. From 
the banks vantage point, this was one transaction that its account holder had confirmed at 
the time they were involved in making. I appreciate what Miss B has said about feeling like 
she had no option but to make the payment and that she considers she did so under duress, 
but, unfortunately, that means in law that she authorised the payment. This means Halifax 
didnt do anything wrong by following Miss Bs text message response.
I am unable to fairly conclude that Halifaxs intervention should have gone further than this in 
all of the circumstances of this individual complaint. This means that I do not need to decide 
whether, on balance, further interaction with the bank would have been enough to stop 
Miss B from making the payment. I can appreciate that Miss B strongly considers that it 
would have done, and this is at the very essence of her complaint. But I am mindful that it is 
only later, with the benefit of hindsight, that Miss B discovered the situation was not what she 
believed it was.    
I have also thought about the protections afforded to payments made by debit card and 
whether they could have helped Miss B to reverse the payment by way of a chargeback. 
There is no debate that the money remittance firm provided the service that Miss B had paid for. There was no realistic prospect of funds being recovered from the money remittance firm 
as they had already been withdrawn by the time Miss B was in contact with Halifax. Against 
this backdrop, there was no reasonable prospect of success if Halifax had tried to challenge 
the debit card payment further on Miss Bs behalf using the card schemes rules. I dont think 
the bank acted unfairly to Miss B by not raising a chargeback claim in these circumstances.  
I am sorry to have to deliver this news to Miss B. I do understand why she feels so strongly 
about this complaint. She was cruelly deceived by someone using faith and shared values. 
From what she has told us, she has lost not only her money, but her confidence in dating 
and making new connections. But my role as an Ombudsman is limited to determining 
whether Halifax bears any responsibility for Miss Bs financial loss. 
Having carefully considered this matter, Im not persuaded there are any grounds on which 
Halifax can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for refunding the debit card transaction 
Miss B authorised. I am not persuaded that Halifax should have done more than it did to 
intervene in the payment she was making, nor can I see there are any other grounds on 
which I could say that Halifax should, fairly and reasonably, bear the responsibility for her 
loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman