DRN-2667849
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that they lost interest in their account with Santander UK Plc 
(Santander).
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had two 123 accounts with Santander. One of their benefits was the paying 
of credit interest  as long as £500 per month was paid in, and there were two active 
monthly direct debits. In October 2018, they cancelled their home insurance, and switched it 
to Santander. As a result, the direct debit on one account (which I will call A) was cancelled 
(the direct debit for the old home insurance) and a new one was set up on the other account 
for the new Santander home insurance (which I will call B).  Account A no longer had two 
active direct debits and so lost the credit interest benefit. No interest was paid to Mr and Mrs 
M between November 2018 and August 2019 on account A.
Mr and Mrs M complained. They said the Santander home insurance was set up in the 
branch. The staff member erroneously set up the direct debit on account B  when the old 
insurance was paid from account A. It shouldve been obvious that it shouldve been paid 
from account A  so retaining the credit interest benefit. They wanted credit interest of 
around £300 paid to them  being the interest theyd lost out on.
Santander said it wasnt their advisors responsibility to check Mr and Mrs Ms account to 
ensure they met the conditions on account A. It was a self-managed account. But they made 
a goodwill payment of £50  about two months credit interest.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator said that monthly 
statements (accessed online) showed that no interest was being paid to Mr and Mrs M. She 
could see that they logged onto online banking frequently. The insurance welcome pack 
showed that the direct debit was to be paid from account B. So overall, Mr and Mrs M had 
the information to show they werent receiving the credit interest  so shouldve realised 
what had happened. So, Santander had acted reasonably.
Mr and Mrs M asked that their complaint was looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see where Mr and Mrs M are coming from. They enjoyed the benefit of getting credit 
interest on account A  and had quite a large credit balance in the account. They agreed to 
take out Santanders home insurance and it was set up with them in the branch. The advisor 
cancelled to old monthly direct debit for the old home insurance and set up one for 
Santanders. But he set it up on account B  so that meant there wasnt two active direct 
debits on account A, so they lost the credit interest. They think the advisor shouldve realised 
this and set the new direct debit up on account A (as before). They say they couldnt see the 
screen he was working in in the branch.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs M and Santander have said to us. And I think on balance, 
Santander dont have to do anymore. I will explain why.
When the new home insurance policy was set up  we dont know what was said or 
discussed in the branch. But Ive seen the home policy documents sent out in October 2018. 
In the first page it says Please read all the documents we have sent you with this letter. It is 
important you understand the level of cover provided and check that all your details are 
correct. Under confirmation of your payment instructions it says Here are your Direct 
Debit details from whereSantander will be taking your premiums. Please take note
of the amounts and collection dates and let us know immediately if we need to make a 
change. It states the account number to be debited is account B  and the first payment 
was on 26 October 2018. So  the policy was clear which account was to be debited.
Mr and Mrs M say that advisor in the branch shouldve realised that account A no longer had 
two direct debits and done something about it  in an ideal world, possibly that might have 
happened, but I dont think thats part of their role and it was for Mr and Mrs M to make sure 
they met the terms of account A.
I can see that Mr and Mrs M got monthly statements  accessed through online banking. Ive 
looked at these for account A. In every month between November 2018 and August 2019, 
they clearly show current account earnings £0.00. This is shown prominently in a red box 
at the top of the statement. It also says - just below the red box Ensure you switch all 
eligible Direct Debits to your 1I2I3 Current Account. To receive cashback and interest you 
must pay in at least £500 a month and have a minimum of two active Direct Debits. Ive 
seen also that Mr and Mrs M logged in frequently to online banking  so could see their 
statements. Also, I can see that when logging onto internet banking, a summary is shown 
which includes  on the first page  account earningsin the last 31 days you earned 
£xxx.  
Mr and Mrs M told us they didnt notice. But I think that given all the information they had  
over a period of ten months - they couldve seen that no interest was being paid. They 
couldve then done something about it  for example, by switching a direct debit from 
account B. 
Its unfortunate what happened. I can see that Mr and Mrs M feel strongly that it was 
Santanders fault. Santander did make a goodwill payment of £50  which was about two 
months interest. It was reasonable for them to do that. But having looked at all the evidence 
from both sides, I dont think Santander made a mistake or acted unreasonably, so I wont 
be asking them to do anymore here.
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman