DRN-3177411
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Limited (LV). He isnt happy about 
the way it valued his car after a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C made a claim under his car insurance policy and his car was deemed a total loss. And 
when LV looked to settle the claim Mr C wasnt happy with the valuation of his car. So, Mr C 
complained to LV about this.
LV looked to value Mr Cs car by looking at the various trade valuation guides in order to 
gauge the market value of his car. And as he wasnt happy it asked its engineers to look at 
the valuation provided. LV increased its valuation of Mr Cs car to around £31,000 but Mr C 
felt it was worth a lot more, so he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. She looked at the 
various motor trade guides and got a bespoke valuation for Mr Cs car from one of the trade 
guides direct. But she found the valuations were in line with what LV had offered and thought 
LV had acted reasonably in valuing Mr Cs car.
As Mr C didnt agree, maintaining that he couldnt buy a car for the money LV had offered, 
the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr C, but Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Cs position, as he clearly feels his car is worth more than LV have 
offered him. And he feels that the way LV has valued his car has left him out of pocket. But 
this service has an established approach to valuation cases like Mr Cs. When looking at the 
valuation placed on a car by an insurance company I consider the approach they have 
adopted. And decide whether the valuation is fair in all the circumstances. 
It isnt the role of this service to come to an exact valuation of a consumers car. But we do 
look to see if insurers have acted reasonably in looking to offer a fair market value of the car. 
I pay attention to the various trade guides used for valuing cars. And I look at any other 
evidence provided by both sides. This evidence might include advertisements for the sale of 
similar cars. But I place less weight on these than on the trade guides, as cars dont normally 
sell for the price at which they are advertised, and the trade guides give an up to date guide 
of the value of the car in question. The condition of the car at the time of the incident is also 
an important factor to consider. And I must emphasise that I will only order a business to 
increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
I know Mr C doesnt agree with this approach and feels his car is worth over £10,000 more 
than LV has offered. And while I understand his position, and the fact that the second-hand 
market is buoyant at the minute, Im satisfied LV has acted fairly. Ive looked at the various 
adverts Mr C has provided and, in the main, they have a lot less mileage than his car which 
clearly affects the valuation. Indeed, most of the adverts provided had more than double the 
mileage of Mr Cs car so I can understand why they are more expensive. And, given the very 
high mileage of Mr Cs car, Im sure it isnt easy to find a similar car with similar mileage to 
his. But that doesnt mean LVs valuation and offer is unfair.
LV got its engineer to look at its initial valuation and considered the further information and 
evidence Mr C provided and increased its valuation. Indeed, it offered Mr C more than the 
trade guide valuations of his particular make and model of car, so I cant say it has acted 
unreasonably here. 
Valuing second hand cars is far from an exact science and it isnt my role to value Mr Cs 
car. Im just looking to see if LV has acted reasonably in providing a fair market value of his 
car and I think it has. Mr C has made the point that second car valuations are rising. But the 
trade guide valuations are from around the time of his claim, so Im satisfied that he hasnt 
been prejudiced here and has been offered the market value of his car from around the time 
of his claim. 
Given all of this, Im satisfied LV has looked to value Mr Cs car in a fair and reasonable way 
and looked to pay him the market value of his car in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
I say this as LV has offered a market value in line with the trade guides and our investigator 
got a bespoke valuation from one of the trade guides, given the very high mileage of his car, 
which is in line with LVs offer. So, although I know Mr C will be disappointed with my 
decision Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman