DRN-3025437
The complaint
Ms K has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limited. She isnt happy about 
the way it recorded an incident under her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms K was involved in a minor road traffic incident which she didnt believe was her fault. She 
called Admiral to tell it about the incident but wasnt happy that it recorded the details of the 
incident on its records. So, she complained to Admiral and then this service about this.
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. This was because 
Ms K was obliged to tell Admiral about the incident. And so, our investigator didnt think 
Admiral acted unreasonably when it recorded the details of the incident.
As Ms K didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Ms Ks frustration here as she believes the other driver was at fault for the 
incident and feels penalised as Admiral has recorded the incident on its records. But, as our 
investigator explained, Ms K had a duty to tell Admiral about any incident she had been 
involved in. So, although I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms K, I dont think 
Admiral has done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
If Ms K, or any driver, was involved in an incident or accident then she has a duty to tell her 
insurer about this. I understand that this wasnt her intention in this instance, but she did the 
right thing in telling her insurer about the minor accident. And her insurer has recorded this 
on its systems for future reference, as all insurers do, which may impact her future 
premiums.
Ms K believes that the other driver was at fault and seemed to want Admiral to contact the 
third party to advance this when she first called. But when it advised her that she was likely 
to be held responsible for the accident she changed her mind and didnt want anything 
recording as she wasnt making a claim. Admiral explained that because Ms K had crossed 
into the other drivers lane in order to overtake a parked vehicle when the accident happened 
then the greater onus was on her. This was because she needed to check it was safe to 
make that manoeuvre. Ms K believes that the other driver was speeding but, as Admiral 
explained, this is very difficult to establish. And I think Admiral acted fairly here in managing 
Ms Ks expectations about liability.
Ordinarily Admiral would have contacted the other driver in order to keep costs down. This is 
because claim costs can quickly spiral and by going direct to the other driver Admiral look to 
make good any repairs without the need to involve other companies. However, as Ms K was 
adamant that she didnt want Admiral to do this, after she realised that she was likely to be 
held responsible for the accident, I think it acted fairly here. And as Admiral respected Ms 
Ks wishes and didnt contact the third party I dont propose to comment any further on this.
Given all of this I dont think Admiral have acted unreasonably here. Ms K was duty bound to 
tell Admiral about the accident she had been involved in and Admiral has recorded the 
details of this incident which I would expect it to. If the third party makes a claim against Ms 
K it will look to settle the claim in line with her policy terms and conditions. And it has 
managed Ms Ks expectations about the chances of successfully defending her position 
which seems fair.
Finally, I can see that Ms K has mentioned that her premium has increased at renewal. 
There are a number of things that can impact risk, including this incident, but Ms K will have 
to advance a separate complaint about this to Admiral if she isnt happy about the cost of 
renewal. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman