DRN-3561915
The complaint
Mr D and Miss J complain about errors and delays by Barclays Bank UK PLC when they 
applied for a mortgage. As a result, they missed the stamp duty holiday and paid stamp duty 
of about £7,500 in relation to their purchase. They ask that Barclays compensates them for 
this.
The broker that gave Mr D and Miss J mortgage advice is representing them in bringing this 
complaint. 
What happened
The broker advising Mr D and Miss J made an application to Barclays on their behalf in 
January 2021. Mr Ds parents were to act as guarantors. At the end of March 2021, Barclays 
declined the application as Mr Ds parents were resident outside the United Kingdom. 
Barclays said it should have picked this up earlier in the application process. However, it 
said there was still enough time for Mr D and Miss J to reapply with different guarantors, or 
apply to another lender, before 30 June 2021 when the stamp duty holiday ended. It offered 
£100 for poor service.
Our investigator said Barclays told the broker the application was declined on 30 March 
2021 and confirmed this on 8 April 2021. He said this left enough time to arrange another 
mortgage. He said Barclays service was poor and it should pay £250 compensation.
The broker sent a detailed response, saying in summary that:
Barclays agreed to pay compensation for Mr D and Miss Js losses and this should 
include the stamp duty.
After the initial decline on 30 March 2021, hed contacted Barclays numerous times to fix 
the problem and overturn the decision. The broker said Barclays didnt make it clear this 
wasnt possible until 4 May 2021. 
Going to another lender within the available time wasnt straightforward. Mr D and Miss J 
had limited options and it wanted to get the best rate for them. Lenders had back-logs 
and long application times, due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Barclays continued to contact them for information. If it had communicated by phone 
from early April 2021 the matter would have been clearer and it could have taken 
alternative action on Mr D and Miss Js behalf sooner.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The broker says he looks forward to a request for further evidence as he has untold 
amounts. The broker has, as he puts it, provided substantial submissions. Both parties have 
had sufficient opportunity to provide any evidence, information and comments they consider 
relevant. If I needed further evidence or clarification from either party I would of course 
request it. Having reviewed the available evidence, I can reach a fair decision without doing 
so.
I should also explain that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr D and Miss J made an application to Barclays in December 2020 (with Miss Js parents 
as guarantors) which was declined. 
They re-applied in January 2021 with Mr Ds parents as guarantors. Barclays issued a 
decision in principle and asked for supporting documents, including proof of address for 
Mr Ds father. The broker submitted an application on behalf of Mr D and Miss J on 29 
January 2021. 
The application progressed, with documents being requested and provided. On 30 March 
2021 the broker was told the application was declined as two applicants (Mr Ds parents) 
arent resident in the United Kingdom. Barclays told the broker this decision couldnt be over-
turned and the non-resident applicants would have to be removed for the application to 
proceed.
Barclays accepts it should have declined the application sooner. The applicants addresses 
were included in the application at the end of January 2021. But it was clear about declining 
the application on 30 March 2021. 
The broker appealed, hoping to have the decision overturned, but was unsuccessful. I 
appreciate that the broker hoped Barclays would re-consider. But Barclays said on 30 March 
2021 the decline decision couldnt be overturned. It was clear about this on 8 April 2021 and 
4 May 2021, when it said again it couldnt proceed with the application with the guarantors 
resident outside the UK. I dont think matters would have been different if Barclays had 
spoken to the broker by phone. I think it made the position clear.
Barclays sent emails after early April 2021 to the broker asking how to proceed. The broker 
says this caused confusion about whether the application could continue. But Barclays 
wouldnt have known if there were other options for Mr D and Miss J which would have 
allowed them to proceed  for instance different guarantors, a gifted deposit or a smaller 
loan amount. In the circumstances, I dont think it was unfair for Barclays to send what look 
to be standard chaser emails, asking the broker to confirm how to proceed. 
The broker told Barclays that Mr D and Miss J had incurred costs. Barclays responded in 
early May 2021 saying this could be raised as a complaint, which the team can investigate 
and offer a gesture of good will and refund losses. It asked what figure Mr D and Miss J 
thought they should receive. I dont think its reasonable, as the broker seems to be saying, 
to read this as an offer to pay whatever amount Mr D and Miss J asked for.
I could require Barclays to pay compensation for Mr D and Miss Js losses if I considered it 
fair and reasonable to do so. 
When considering whether compensation for financial loss is fair, I must consider whther the 
loss resulted from Barclays error, and whether its reasonable to expect Mr D and Miss J to 
have taken steps to mitigate the loss. Barclays declined Mr D and Miss Js application on 30 March 2021. They had three months 
to complete their purchase to benefit from the stamp duty holiday. Id expect Mr D and 
Miss J (or the broker on their behalf) to act promptly to look into their options and re-apply to 
Barclays, or apply elsewhere, if they wanted to benefit from the stamp duty holiday.
Im sorry that Mr D and Miss J didnt benefit from the stamp duty holiday. But I dont think I 
can fairly find that Barclays error (not telling Mr D and Miss J at the outset that it couldnt 
proceed with applicants resident outside the UK) was the only or the main reason for this.
Property purchases can be delayed for a number of reasons. The broker says it was chaos 
at that time, with lenders having staff working from home and long application times. 
Barclays wasnt responsible for the wider circumstances, or if other lenders  or valuers or 
conveyancers  took longer than usual at that time. The broker told us he submitted an 
application on behalf of Mr D and Miss J to another lender until 26 May 2021, about eight 
weeks after Barclays declined their application. I dont think, based on the available 
evidence, I can fairly find that Barclays was responsible for any delay in applying elsewhere. 
And it follows that I cant fairly find Barclays is responsible if Mr D and Miss Js application to 
another lender didnt complete within the remaining time.
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Barclays to pay compensation for the stamp 
duty paid by Mr D and Miss J.
I dont doubt though that this matter caused Miss J and Mr D upset and inconvenience, and I 
think its right that Barclays pays compensation for this. They provided documents and 
information for an application that could never have succeeded. They must have been 
disappointed when they were told this, two months after submitting the application. I think, in 
the circumstances, its fair and reasonable to require Barclays to pay £250 for the upset and 
inconvenience this caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay £250 to 
Miss J and Mr D (less any amounts it has already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman