DRN-2200258
The complaint
Mr T complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) told him his credit card
account was in arrears, although he says hes never missed a payment.
What happened
Mr T said that he received a letter from M&S saying that he ought already to have been sent
a letter about arrears on his account, and apologising for the fact that this was being sent
late. But Mr T said hed never been in arrears. He said that M&S had made a mistake, and
overlooked a payment hed made. He wanted M&S to apologise, and confirm his credit file
hadnt been affected.
Mr T told us after he complained, M&S sent him a letter saying it was glad his complaint was
resolved. But it wasnt. Mr T said M&S should do what hed asked it to do in the first place,
and he said it now also needed to apologise for not doing so right away.
Mr T also thought that what M&S had done was a breach of the Consumer Credit Act, by
allocating his payment to the previous statement period, even though it was made on the
date his new statement was issued. And he wanted us to look at a final response letter M&S
had sent, which acknowledged that Mr T had referred his case to our service, then told him
he could refer his case to our service.
M&S said that due to an error, it hadnt sent notices to customers who were two payments in
arrears. And it thought Mr T shouldve got one of these. The payment Mr T made for October
was dated 28 October, which was the date of his statement. So the payment was allocated
to the month before. That, in turn meant that payments for the statement produced at the
end of November and at the end of December, were allocated to the preceding statement
periods. M&S didnt think that was a mistake.
M&S said it had checked Mr Ts credit file, and no adverse marks had been placed there as
a result of these late payments. It had paid him £25, and it thought that was enough to make
up for what had gone wrong.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said M&S had correctly
allocated Mr Ts payments, and M&S was right to issue its letter, although that was sent late.
Mr T had said he wanted written confirmation that his credit file hadnt been affected, and he
had received this. Additionally, it hadnt charged him for any late payments. So our
investigator thought that a payment of £25 was enough to recognise the delay in receiving
the final response letter. It was standard practice to add in the phrase about being able to
refer a complaint to our service, so our investigator didnt criticise M&S for that.
Mr T didnt agree. He said that any variation from how payments should be allocated under
the Consumer Credit Act would be void in law. And he didnt think that having to wait for six
months for written confirmation that his credit rating hadnt been damaged was reasonable.
He said hed already had to request his credit file to check this. He also noted that his
statements showed no arrears whatsoever, so the whole thing might have been a mistake.
Mr T wanted his complaint considered by an ombudsman, so it came to me for decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
I dont think that M&S has to pay Mr T the amount of £250 hes asked for, but I do 
think it has to pay a little more in this case. Ill explain why I think that.
I know that M&S has said to Mr T now that it wants him to make his monthly payment 
after the statement date. But Ive read M&Ss terms, and I cant see where it had 
previously explained to Mr T that if he makes a payment after the due date shown on 
his statement for September, and on the same date that his October statement is 
produced, then this payment would be allocated to the September statement period. 
Thats well after M&S said his September payment would be due, and theres been 
no suggestion that Mr T had missed that payment.
I also note that the back of Mr Ts statements says All payments will only take effect 
when they are actually received by us as cleared funds. Mr Ts payment for October 
was applied on 29 October, the day after his statement.
For those reasons, Im not clear that the payment Mr T made on 28 October, which 
was applied by M&S on 29 October, shouldve been applied to the September 
statement. Fortunately, this doesnt appear to have adversely affected Mr T in this 
case, because it wasnt recorded on his credit file. But it took some time for Mr T to 
get the reassurance he asked for about this.
Mr T was understandably concerned to receive a notice of arrears, when the 
evidence Ive seen shows him paying promptly each month. I know that on the call 
Mr T made to M&S, to express his concerns, he was told that this wouldnt affect his 
credit file. But Mr T then asked for written confirmation of this. I think that was a 
reasonable request for Mr T to make.
Mr T then received a letter dated May 2019 saying M&S hoped he was satisfied with 
how his complaint was resolved. He didnt get the written confirmation he asked for 
that his credit file was unaffected until December 2019, some time after he brought 
his complaint to us.
Like our investigator, I dont think that M&S should be criticised for including referral 
rights to our service in a letter which acknowledges that Mr T has already brought a 
complaint to us. M&S is obliged to inform Mr T of those rights. But I do think its 
unfortunate that M&S didnt actually send Mr T the reassurance he had asked for 
until significantly later. I dont think Mr T shouldve had to contact our service in order 
to get that from M&S.
I think this complaint has inconvenienced and worried Mr T, and I dont think that £25  
is enough to make up for that. So Ill ask M&S to pay a further £75. I think that 
provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
M&S said it agreed with my proposed outcome. Mr T didnt reply. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc must pay Mr T £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman