DRN-1606536
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to Mrs S. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1996. RBS says it sold Mrs S 
the policy at the same time that she applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
The sale took place more than 24 years ago and so there are no documents surviving about 
the sale of the PPI. I also wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that 
happened so many years ago when the PPI started. Ive borne in mind these difficulties in 
the evidence when considering the case and trying to reach a fair decision. 
Ive considered what Mrs S has said, but Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will 
explain why.
Mrs S has said the PPI was added without her knowledge  shes certain she wouldnt have 
agreed to it, as she didnt need it. However it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this 
happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of this. Where someone has 
said another person or organisation has done something wrong, fairness requires that the 
person making the allegation should present evidence that this probably did happen. It 
wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt do something wrong, especially 
when it was such a long time ago. Without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was 
added without Mrs Ss consent. 
RBS says it didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Ss individual 
needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. However, even 
if it had made a recommendation, I still wouldnt say a recommendation was inappropriate. 
Although Mrs S has said she had good employer benefits, the PPI could still potentially have 
paid out for longer than her full employer sick pay lasted. And it would have paid out on top 
of any sick pay or redundancy pay. It would have meant Mrs S could put off the time shed 
need to fall back on other resources. So it would have been potentially useful, and so a 
recommendation would have been suitable. Its difficult now to know how well RBS explained the PPI. Its possible the information RBS 
gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont think full 
information about costs and benefits would have affected whether she took the PPI. I say 
this because, in her circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less 
useful. And it doesnt look like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions 
in the policy. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman