DRN-2189561
The complaint
Mr M has complained about The Prudential Assurance Company Limited. He is unhappy 
about the charges he paid when he entered drawdown. Hes also unhappy that he wasnt 
told about changes to pensions legislation which took place in 2015. Mr M has also 
questioned why drawdown was said to be a retirement option for him when his pension 
product didnt allow it without transfer (and the connected expense). 
What happened
Mr M set up a Free-Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) pension plan with 
Prudential in 1997.
In December 2019, Mr M received a retirement pack which set out some options that were 
available to him. Mr M says that he wanted to take tax free cash (TFC) of 25 per cent and 
then enter into a drawdown arrangement. A drawdown option was included in the retirement 
pack.
On enquiry, Mr M was told that drawdown wasnt an option for this FSAVC plan. He met with 
an adviser to discuss other options and he was advised to set up a Self-Investment Personal 
Pension Plan (SIPP) to receive the FSAVC funds and then drawdown when he needed to.
Mr M then discovered that there would be a charge for this amounting to three per cent of 
the fund value.
Mr M made a complaint. He said he was unhappy with the service he had received, and he 
was concerned that he hadnt been informed of the Pension Freedoms legislation, in 2015.
Mr M did accept Prudentials advice and set up the SIPP.
Prudential accepted that there had been some service issues and offered Mr M £150 (which 
he has recently accepted). But it didnt uphold the remainder of the complaint. It said the 
three per cent charge was in respect of the cost of setting up the new policy. Also, it said that 
its pension literature had been updated after pension freedoms in 2015, but it didnt contact 
all customers regarding this as that would be costly.
Mr M didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service. Mr M confirmed that he didnt 
wish for us to consider the service issues. His focus was on the other aspects of the 
complaint.
The complaint was considered by an investigator, but she didnt think that it should be 
upheld. She explained the background to the Pension Freedoms legislation and said that, in 
effect, although it did provide more flexibility in the way pension funds could be accessed it 
didnt directly impact on the terms of existing pension plans. This plan started in 1997 long 
before drawdown was available, the 2015 legislation didnt change that.
The investigator didnt think Prudential had acted unreasonably by not allowing Mr M to 
move to drawdown with this plan. His FSAVC plan didnt include that option and the 2015 
legislation didnt change that.
The investigator also explained that Prudential wasnt under and general regulatory 
obligation to inform its policyholders of changes to pension rules or legislation.
Finally, with regard to the three per cent fee, the investigator was satisfied that Mr M was 
made aware that he could take advice elsewhere if he wished and that there had been 
transparency about the charges before he had accepted the advice.
Mr M didnt agree. He said, in summary, the retirement pack included flexible drawdown as 
an option. It was only when he enquired that he was told it wasnt actually an option and that 
there would be a three per cent charge to effect this. Also, guidance in the Pension 
Regulator Trustees Advice suggested that information should be provided to pension-
holders about changes in legislation.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive summarised the background to this complaint and what Mr M has said in response to 
the investigators view, but I have read everything. Having done that, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for the same reasons. I dont uphold this complaint.
The drawdown option
Mr M held a FSAVC plan which was set up in 1997. Drawdown wasnt an option for 
pensioners then and so its not surprising that it wasnt included in his policy. The Pension 
Freedoms legislation provided pensioners with more flexibility about how they access 
pension funds. But this legislation didnt have any direct effect on Mr Ms FSAVC plan. It 
didnt change the terms and conditions of the plan and there was no requirement on pension 
companies to change the terms.
So technically, drawdown wasnt an option for Mr M when he retired as the plan didnt 
include it. But Prudential did include it as an option in his retirement pack. I can understand 
why Mr M questions this, but I disagree with him and I dont think it was acting unreasonably 
in doing so. I think there was a valid reason to include it as it was something that could be 
achieved although with additional steps and additional costs. It must have been an attractive 
option for Mr M as its the one he chose. I agree, that for completeness it may have been 
better if there had been some explanation of the steps necessary and the costs, but the 
retirement pack isnt intended to provide a totally in-depth guide to every possible option. Its 
a starting point. Looking at it another way, I think Prudential may have been open to greater 
criticism if it hadnt referred to drawdown as an option at all. 
The charges
Im satisfied that there was adequate transparency about Prudentials charges. These were 
clearly set out before Mr M was committed to them. He was also advised of his option to 
shop-around for advice elsewhere if he wished. He didnt have to stay with Prudential if he 
didnt want to. And as the investigator said, its not the role of this service to assess if fees are fair or if they represent good value. There was transparency and Mr M went ahead in an 
informed position in my view.
Information about changes in legislation
Ive noted Mr Ms comments about Prudentials obligations to inform its customers of 
changes in legislation. I can fully accept that if there were legislative changes which had 
impacted directly on his FSAVC plan and the way it operated, it may have been reasonable 
for Prudential to tell him about it. But that isnt what happened here. The Pension Freedoms 
legislation didnt directly impact upon his FSAVC plan, the legislation was more general and 
not in any way specific to his plan. I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Prudential to 
inform all its pension-holders of each and every change to pension rules or legislation. That 
would be too onerous, expensive and probably not in the interests of its customers.
Im sorry Mr Ms experience when he accessed his pension didnt go as smoothly as it could 
have done, but Im not satisfied that Prudential has done anything wrong so that I should 
uphold his complaint and make an award. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman