DRN-1886858
The complaint
Mr H has complained, on behalf of a church that I'll refer to as T, that Ecclesiastical 
Insurance Office Plc provided misleading information which led to T not being fully covered 
for a property insurance claim following a theft. 
What happened
T had been covered by Ecclesiastical's Parishguard policy for a number of years. At the 
policy's renewal in July 2016 Ecclesiastical transferred T to the Parish Plus policy. To 
promote this new policy Ecclesiastical provided a leaflet which said that the cover for theft of 
metal had changed, along with accompanying documents setting out T's level of cover. The 
leaflet said churches would now be covered for metal theft up to the total amount the church 
was insured for - except where a church was considered particularly vulnerable. 
Mr H said due to an internal error he hadn't been provided with the accompanying letter. He 
said he didn't consider T to be particularly vulnerable, so from the leaflet thought T had the 
increased level of cover. Mr H said that meant T didn't go ahead with fitting the additional 
costly security measures that were being planned. 
The policy renewed in July 2017 and July 2018. In September 2018 T suffered a theft of lead 
from the roof.  While making this claim Mr H found that T had a £7,500 limit on metal theft. 
Mr H complained about this to Ecclesiastical because he'd understood that T had adequate 
insurance.
Ecclesiastical said due to the amount of lead on the roof, T was considered vulnerable to 
theft. It said the letter and documents it had sent with the leaflet in 2016 set out the level of 
cover, as did the renewal packs in 2017 and 2018. 
Mr H brought the complaint to us. He said the information Ecclesiastical provided was 
misleading and had caused T a loss, due to it thinking it didn't need to fit the additional 
security measures. Our investigator didn't recommend that T's complaint be upheld. He 
thought the leaflet was generic and designed to be read alongside the other documents. He 
thought the other documents made T's level of cover clear. 
Mr H didn't agree with our investigator. He said Ecclesiastical shouldn't be able to send 
contradictory information within the same information pack. He said he wasn't to know the 
leaflet was generic. He also said the leaflet referred to churches that were vulnerable to 
theft. He said while lead was valuable, this wasn't the same as vulnerable which was why he 
didn't consider T to be vulnerable. As Mr H didn't agree he asked for an ombudsman's 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ecclesiastical sold T's policy in a non-advised sale. That means it had to provide information 
that was clear, fair and not misleading. And in such a way to allow T to decide if the policy 
was suitable. 
Mr H has made a number of detailed points and I hope he doesn't take it as a discourtesy 
that I'm going to focus on what I see as being the central issues of this complaint. 
I've looked at the renewal pack Ecclesiastical sent to T in July 2016. The pack contained a 
leaflet setting out how Ecclesiastical had asked for feedback from its policyholders and made 
changes to the cover based on that. The point that's applicable to this particular complaint is 
headed "You asked for unlimited metal theft cover". Under this the leaflet says "We will now 
cover you for metal theft up to the total amount your church is insured for. For some 
churches that are particularly vulnerable to such losses, we also require an alarm or CCTV 
to benefit from the higher cover".
There was also a letter that contained the renewal premium and additional information. This 
asked T to read the policy schedule and documents in conjunction with each other. On the 
second page of this letter Ecclesiastical said:
"Parish Plus offers unlimited theft of metal cover but for some churches we will still require 
additional security measures in order to provide this cover. We have reviewed your church 
policy and in order to provide unlimited theft of metal cover we will require the installation of 
an approved roof alarm or CCTV system".
Under this in bold type the letter said:
"Your limit for theft or attempted theft of external metal is £7,500 any one period of insurance 
and £7,500 for the subsequent damage as a result of the theft or attempted theft of external 
metal".
Also in the pack was the policy schedule. On the second page of the schedule it says that 
the policy limit for metal theft is £7,500. This is also set out in the renewal schedules in 2017 
and 2018.
I think the pack is designed to be read as a whole and the letter and policy schedule clearly 
set out the limit of T's cover. The limit is in bold type in the letter to make it stand out and the 
letter also explains that additional security measures are required. I appreciate that Mr H 
wasn't given the whole pack by whoever opened it, but that's not Ecclesiastical's fault. 
I also don't think the leaflet is contradictory with the rest of the information in the pack. It lets 
the reader know that there will be some cases where additional security measures are 
required. I understand Mr H thinks the lead being valuable is different to the church being 
vulnerable to theft and the leaflet didn't make that clear. But I think it's reasonable for 
Ecclesiastical to describe something valuable as being vulnerable to theft without having to 
specify that it's because it's valuable. I say this because there may be a number of different 
factors that make something vulnerable and I don't think Ecclesiastical needed to set all 
those factors out in the leaflet.
I appreciate this isn't the outcome Mr H was hoping for, as it will cost more than £7,500 to 
repair the roof. But I'm satisfied that Ecclesiastical provided information in a way that was 
clear, fair and not misleading. So, I don't think it mis-sold the policy and I'm not going to 
require it to do anything further.My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman