DRN-4023883
The complaint
Miss M complains about Motor Gap Limited trading as Direct Gaps (MGL) customer 
service while making enquiries to renew her Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Miss M says she called MGL and spoke with an agent (agent 1) to renew her GAP policy 
but was informed she couldnt at that point as it was too early, so she was invited to call 
back. Miss M called back around two weeks later and spoke to a different agent (agent 2). 
Miss M says agent 2 was persistent and asked the same questions which had already been 
covered by agent 1. Miss M says she felt agent 2 was being abrupt which made her feel 
uncomfortable, so she explained she will call back to speak with agent 1. Miss M says agent 
2 then said MGL wouldnt provide a renewal for her and to look for a policy elsewhere.    
Miss M says she called MGL again a couple of days later and spoke with agent 1 who 
explained agent 2, his manager, had put a note on their system to decline Miss Ms renewal. 
MGL then sent an email to Miss M setting out their reasons for not offering a renewal.     
Miss M then complained about the service shed received. 
MGL responded and explained agent 2 took the right steps and refusing to offer a renewal 
was the only option. MGL said, when Miss M spoke with agent 1, he was under the 
impression Miss Ms car was bought through a Personal Contract Purchase (PCP) 
agreement, but after speaking with agent 2, it was established Miss Ms car was obtained 
through a Personal Contract Hire (PCH). MGL said, because of this an Agreed Value 
Policy wasnt suitable, so a finance/contract hire GAP insurance was the only option 
available. 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss M. She thought MGL hadnt acted unreasonably 
in declining to offer a renewal. Miss M disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Miss M will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. The primary dispute here relates to Miss Ms call with agent 2 and MGLs 
actions thereafter in declining to offer a renewal. Theres no dispute Miss M first had a 
conversation with agent 1 and it being agreed that Miss M would call back to take forward 
her renewal. 
Ive listened to the call recording of Miss Ms conversation with agent 2, and it starts with    
Miss M asking to speak with agent 1 - and agent 2 explaining hes away from the office. 
Agent 2 then explains he can help. Agent 2 asks Miss M if she purchased her car or whether 
it was on a contract hire agreement. Miss M then explains her car was obtained through a 
PCH. Agent 2 asks how long the contract hire agreement is for and Miss M says, Thats 
why I need to speak to [agent 1] because weve discussed all this, thats why he asked to 
ring him back, and now Im going to go through all that again what Ive gone through with 
[agent 1] and I really dont want to, its a little bit frustrating, to have to explain myself to take 
a renewal, Im happy to go with another company, its not a problem. 
Agent 2 explains they need to ensure the policy theyll be offering will be fit for purpose and 
suitable. Miss M says shes repeating everything thats already been explained to agent 1. 
Agent 2 explains the information Miss M gave to agent 1, which is showing on their system, 
refers to Miss M purchasing her car, so the details recorded by agent 1 say they would be 
offering a certain type of cover  in this case an Agreed Value Policy. Agent 2 explains   
Miss M has now confirmed her car was obtained through a PCH which would require a 
different type of cover to what agent 1 wouldve offered. Agent 2 then says, If youre not 
prepared to answer the basic questions that we have with cover then we are more than 
happy for you to shop around and find the cover elsewherethe reason Im asking those 
questions is because what you have advised [agent 1] is slightly different and the cover 
[agent 1] was going to offer you could well have been an incorrect level of cover for what you 
require. Agent 2 then says, So, with the fact that you wont want to repeat those details to 
me, Ill be quite happy for you to go and purchase some cover somewhere else. Miss M 
says, Ok, Ill do that.  
A couple of days later, Miss M speaks with agent 1. Miss M explains she understands agent 
2 has refused to provide a renewal offer on the basis Miss M refused to answer questions so 
he could ascertain whether the policy would be fit for purpose. Miss M says she found agent 
2 to be overpowering and shed explained to him that she wanted to speak with agent 1. 
Miss M asks for agent 2 to send her an email explaining the reasons for refusing to offer a 
renewal. Miss M explains she had a detailed discussion with agent 1 and her concern was 
that she didnt want to have to go through everything again with agent 2. Agent 1 says, One 
thing that I will just point out is that, when we spoke earlier on, and we established that the 
actual finance agreement thats linked to it isnt a PCP as we originally thought, and that it is 
a PCH, then the policy that we spoke about previously, the agreed value policy, that then 
wouldnt have been fit for purpose. That policy wouldve only have been fit for purpose if you 
had actually had a PCP finance agreement. Agent 1 then discusses why Miss Ms existing 
policy is suitable for a car obtained through a PCH but why the cover he was looking to 
provide, following the first call, wouldnt be suitable now theyre aware of the PCH.     
MGL then follow this up with an email saying they arent able to offer Miss M a renewal 
against her current GAP policy. They say this decision was made on the basis Miss M 
declined to provide MGL with the basic details required. MGL explain all agents are required 
to go through the details when quoting so that theyre able to ensure the correct level of 
cover is sold and is fit for purpose should a customer need to claim. MGL say, as Miss M 
wasnt prepared to go through and provide the details they required, and the conversation 
then breaking down, theyve declined to offer cover to ensure any policy wasnt mis-sold.
I acknowledge this event has been very upsetting for Miss M and I do fully appreciate it will 
be frustrating for a customer to have to repeat information already given to a business. 
Where a customer has provided responses to questions, I would expect a business to make 
a record of this to avoid a customer having to repeat information. But in this case, its clear 
agent 2 was asking questions because hed picked up on an inconsistency in what MGLs 
records were showing. Given the potential consequences of Miss M taking out a policy which 
might not be suitable, I dont think agent 2s line of questioning was unreasonable. I acknowledge Miss Ms intention was to speak with agent 1, and she also asked to speak 
with him. But given that agent 2 had now identified that the policy they were potentially 
looking to propose, following the first call, wasnt suitable and fit for purpose, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for agent 2 to look to clarify the position by asking questions. 
I note Miss M believes agent 2 was aggressive, persistent and bullying and she says she 
was made to feel like a fraudster. I fully acknowledge from the phone calls and emails that 
Miss M was left upset by the call with agent 2. But I dont agree agent 2 was aggressive or 
persistent in his approach. I agree Miss M did originally ask to speak with agent 1, but he 
wasnt available, so I cant say it was unreasonable for agent 2 to offer to help. Its then 
established early into the call that the cover MGL were considering for Miss M might not be 
suitable, and thats what led to agent 2s further questions. I cant say though that agent 2 
then persisted in asking these questions  and he does explain the reasons why he needs to 
ask these questions. Given that the further questions werent answered, and in view of the 
consequences of mis-selling a policy, I cant say it was unreasonable for MGL to then 
decline to offer a renewal.    
Miss M has asked that our service review calls between agent 2 and other customers. My 
decision here focuses on the service Miss M has received so I cant review other calls 
involving agent 2  and this also wouldnt fall within our services jurisdiction when 
considering the merits of this complaint. 
I understand Miss M will be disappointed, and I am sorry to read about the impact this event 
has had on her. But my role here is to decide whether MGL have acted fairly and reasonably 
when handling Miss Ms enquiries for renewal  and from the information Ive seen, I think 
they have. I wish to reassure Miss M Ive read and considered everything she has sent in, 
but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent 
seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my 
decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman