DRN-1770828
The complaint
Mr D complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) declined a claim under his 
gadget insurance policy because he failed to provide proof of ownership for a laptop. 
What happened
On 13 August 2019, Mr D contacted D&G asking it to add a laptop to his gadget insurance 
policy, stating he bought the laptop in 2014. The following day he made a claim, stating he 
had dropped the laptop it by accident. He was told to send it to D&Gs repair agents, who 
said it was completely smashed and 6 to 7 years old. 
Due to the discrepancy with the age of the laptop and the fact the claim was made the day 
after it was added to the policy, D&G asked Mr D for a new damage form and proof of 
ownership for the laptop. 
Mr D completed a damage form but failed to provide proof of ownership, telling D&G he 
wanted to make a complaint. D&G refused to continue with the repair, and the laptop was 
sent back to Mr D. D&G didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had followed the correct 
process as per the terms and conditions of the policy, and the fact Mr D was unable to 
provide proof of ownership meant its decision not to proceed with the clam was fair.
Mr D wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. But our investigator didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think D&G had done anything wrong in asking him 
to provide proof of ownership, and he thought its decision to decline the claim was fair.
Mr D has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman and so its been passed 
to me for a decision.
D&G has commented where we identify any inconsistences, irregularities, disproportionate 
claims activities etc. we reserve the right to exercise said due diligence and request 
appropriate and reasonable supporting information and evidence to support the customers 
claim. This may include a proof of purchase which is asked for at our discretion where we 
feel necessary.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
D&Gs notes show Mr D was asked to show proof of purchase because of irregular activity 
on the plan. Taking into account the timing of the claim and the fact the laptop appeared to 
be older than the one Mr D had asked to be added to the policy, I think D&Gs concerns 
were justified and that its request for proof of ownership was reasonable.
The policy wording states that a claim can be cancelled where you fail to co-operate with us 
or to provide us with information or documentation we reasonably require and this 
substantially affects our ability to process your claim or deal with your policy. D&G cancelled 
the claim because Mr D failed to provide proof of ownership as per its request, and Im 
satisfied that was reasonable and that it amounted to a fair application of the terms and 
conditions of the policy. Consequently, Im satisfied D&Gs decision to not to repair the 
laptop was fair.
My final decision
I understand Mr D will be disappointed but for the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman