DRN-1715481
 
The complaint
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA), as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my 
decision.
Miss C says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Miss C took out on a store card account in June 2000. It 
was added to her account when she applied for the card in store.
Miss C says she cannot recall how she took out PPI but she had no need for it. She says 
she wasnt given clear information about it. She thinks AXA mis-sold the policy to her.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Miss C has said she wasnt given clear information about the PPI policy including the 
optionality of it. But I think AXA made Miss C aware that she had a choice about buying the 
PPI, and that she chose to take it. I say this because AXA has given us a copy of the store 
card application form from the time of sale. This shows there was a separate section for PPI 
and that it is presented as optional. 
It says on the separate section for PPI: only sign this box if you require account cover. Miss 
C then signs next to this statement. Had Miss C not wanted the PPI she could have 
completed the application without signing separately for it.
So, on balance, I think Miss C was aware the policy was optional and she agreed to take it 
out by signing the separate section on the application form.
This application was made by Miss C completing an application in a store. So because of 
this, I dont think a recommendation was made by AXA. So AXA didnt have to check if the 
policy was suitable for her. But it still needed to make sure it gave Miss C enough 
information so she could make an informed choice whether the policy was right for her.Its possible the information AXA gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. So I need to consider if Miss C would have acted differently and not bought the 
policy, if better information had been provided. And on balance I dont think better 
information wouldve led her to act differently.
Miss C has told us she would have statutory sick pay if she needed and held no savings at 
the time. So I think the policy would have been of use to her. It would have paid out in 
addition to any provisions Miss C would receive and for longer. I think taking into 
consideration what Miss C has said about her circumstances, the PPI would have been 
useful to her in that her store card payments would be met. I also couldnt see any significant 
or limiting terms that would have affected Miss Cs decision to take the policy out either.
Im not sure AXA gave clear information on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think this 
would have affected Miss Cs decision to take out the policy for the reasons I have already 
given. 
Ive taken into account all Miss Cs comments, but for the reasons mentioned above, these 
points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 June 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman