DRN-3305393
The complaint
Mr J complains that he was advised by Able Financial Management Ltd (AFM) to switch his
pension in 2007. He questions whether the switch was in his best interest taking into account
the charges and commission he had to pay.
Mr J switched and combined pensions several times over the years on the advice of the
same adviser (albeit whilst the adviser was working for different companies). Each complaint
is dealt with separately. This decision relates to the advice given in 2007.
What happened
In 2007 Mr J met with AFM for financial advice. He had a pension worth around £42,700
which was invested in a with-profits fund. A fact find was completed which showed Mr J was
34, single with no dependants and that he had a salary of £36,000. He owned his own home
and had an additional buy to let property which both had outstanding mortgages on them. He
had around £30,000 in savings. Mr J completed a risk questionnaire which resulted him
being recorded as an aggressive investor with a risk level of 9 out of 10.
Mr Js pension was invested in a with-profits fund which at the time attracted returns in form
of annual bonuses of 2.75% and a final bonus which would be paid when the policy matured.
At the time of the advice the transfer value included a final bonus of £6,386.76. The final
bonus for 2007 had been zero. The plan had an annual fee of 0.875%.
Mr J was advised to switch his pension to a new plan. Initial commission paid to AFM was
£2,564.85. The plan had a policy fee of £2.10 per month. 100.5% of the transfer value would
be used to buy units. A charge of 0.3% per month would be taken for the first 24 months of
the policy. After this period a loyalty bonus of 0.8% per year would be paid.
Mr J was to be invested in a number of different funds, and each fund had its own charge.
Ive included the investments, the percentage of the pension they represent, and their annual
charges below:
- Balanced Managed, 15%, 1%
- CM Dynamic Return, 10%, 1.75%
- CM IP High Income, 15%, 1.8%
- Smaller Companies, 10%, 1%
- UK Equity Fund of Funds, 15%, 1.75%
- UK Growth, 15%, 1%
- UK Property, 20%, 1%
Our investigator said it was suitable advice to transfer out of the with-profits policy. However,
she said Mr J should have been advised to switch to a stakeholder pension which would
have been cheaper. She also said the funds recommended in the new plan seemed to be
too high risk for Mr J. She didnt think he had the capacity for loss to invest this much into
equities and property.
AFM disagreed. After reviewing the costs of the plan again, the investigator conceded that in
the recommended plan wasnt more expensive than a stakeholder pension. However, she
still thought the asset allocation had been too risky and recommended to compensate Mr J
for any potential losses he incurred by switching.
AFM still disagreed, so Mr Js complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding Mr Js complaint.
I agreed with the investigator that the recommendation to switch out of the with-profits policy
was suitable. There were no other fund choices available in Mr Js existing plan and he was
able to transfer without penalties. He was able to secure the final bonus available on the
policy at the time. This bonus wasnt guaranteed and could have reduced in future. The final
bonus in 2007 in fact had been zero and annual bonuses were also relatively low and had
even been lower in the previous four years.
I looked at the illustrations and switching comparisons and I thought it was reasonable for 
the adviser to think better returns could be achieved by switching to a plan with more 
investment options which could be altered to better match Mr Js attitude to risk. The 
illustrations show that assuming a middle growth rate, all the charges including commission 
would reduce the investment growth from 7% to 6.1%. This was based on the actual funds 
Mr J invested in as set out above. However, taking into account the increased allocation rate 
of 100.5% and the loyalty bonuses, I thought the new plan worked out cheaper overall.
A stakeholder pension would have had capped charges at 1.5% for the first ten years and
1% thereafter. However, for the same reasons as set out above, I thought the recommended
plan here was competitive with this.
Where I didnt agree with the investigator is that the funds that were chosen didnt match
Mr Js risk profile. Ive looked at his risk profiler form and the answers recorded and I was
satisfied that he was willing to take a higher risk with his pension at the time. For example he
disagreed with the statement the thought of losing money on an investment makes me
nervous and strongly agreed with the statement I am prepared to take high risk in order to
gain high returns. The suitability report also clearly stated that the risk profiler had identified
him as an aggressive investor and that he was willing to take a very high risk with his
investments. I think its reasonable to assume Mr J would have raised this as an issue if he
felt this didnt accurately reflect his attitude to risk. 
I explained that how much risk someone is willing to take is subjective and can change over 
time for different reasons. So the fact that his attitude to risk was recorded as moderately 
aggressive a few years later is not an indication his attitude to risk was wrongly recorded 
here. Having said this, someones attitude to risk might be higher than is in their best 
interest. They might not have the capacity to lose large amounts or might not have the 
necessary knowledge and experience necessary to go into particularly complex or non-
mainstream investments. In these cases, the adviser would be expected to point this out to 
the customer and recommend investments better suited to their circumstances.
However, I didnt think the investments Mr J went into were unsuitable for him. He was
invested in a mix of balanced managed funds, equity and property. A high proportion of
equity can make investments volatile, but Mr J was 34 and many years from retirement. So I
didnt think a larger proportion of equity investment in his circumstances was unreasonable.And the investment in property helped the diversification of investments. 
Mr J had many years to recoup any short or medium term losses in his pension before he 
needed to access retirement benefits. Mr J was also starting a new pension with his 
employer and was likely going to accrue further benefits over his working life, so he wouldnt 
only rely on this pension in retirement. Most lifestyle strategy plans which are suitable for 
many customers are invested in larger proportions in equity which then reduces as the 
customer approaches retirement.
Overall, I thought the recommendation for Mr J to switch to a new plan and invest the way he 
did was suitable.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to provide. AFM accepted my 
decision. Mr J disagreed.
He felt his pensions were churned and it wasnt considered that the three complaints he 
raised were connected. He also noted that his adviser received good commission on the 
sales which had not been taken into account. He finds it suspicious that he was moved from 
one pension in 2007 only to be switched back again a few years later and that the adviser 
changed firms several times.
I understand that Mr Js disappointed with the outcome, however Im still satisfied the advice 
he received in 2007 was suitable. Mr J complained about advice which was given to him on 
three separate occasions over the course of 10 years. Ive considered each complaint 
separately, but can assure Mr J that I treated them as linked complaints which is why one 
ombudsman looked at all of them at the same time. I also considered the commission paid 
where relevant. 
Mr J didnt end up in the same pension in 2017 that he left in 2007. He moved back to the 
same provider. However, the fund and charging structure was completely different. Im well 
aware of practices of churning in the financial industry where advisers may switch customers 
to different products for no good reason motivated by commissions or advice fees, leaving 
customers in more expensive or too risky products. However, this doesnt mean that 
customers should never be advised to change pensions. In 2007 Mr J was switched from a 
restricted with-profits fund which wasnt performing well to a cheaper plan (even after all 
commissions and fees were factored in) which in my view was able to better cater for Mr Js 
attitude to risk. So I think Mr J was given suitable advice.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman