DRN-3286627
The complaint
Mr and Ms M are unhappy with the way St Andrews Insurance Plc handled a subsidence 
claim they made under their home insurance policy.
Mr M has primarily dealt with the claim and complaint, so for ease Ill refer to him only.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
In 2015, Mr M got in touch with St Andrews about damage to his garage. It inspected 
the problem and declined the claim. It said the damage had been caused by thermal 
expansion and advised Mr M to have a thermal joint installed.
Mr M arranged that work and paid £750 for it.
In 2019, Mr M got back in touch with St Andrews because the damage had returned 
and seemed to be getting worse.
St Andrews accepted the damage had been caused by subsidence and arranged for 
the problem to be put right. Vegetation was removed and repairs carried out.
Mr M complained that St Andrews hadnt dealt with the claim properly in 2015. Whilst 
it had been dealt with since, he thought hed lost out financially as a result of the way 
the claim was handled. In particular, the potential loss of value to the property. And 
he thought his property should be returned to the way it was prior to the 2015 claim.
St Andrews agreed it hadnt handled things fairly in 2015 and apologised. It also 
offered to pay £750 for the thermal joint, plus interest, and £1,100 compensation for 
the worry and upset caused.
Our investigator thought this was a reasonable way to put things right.
Mr M disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that St Andrews made a mistake in 2015  it agrees it should have carried 
out further investigations into the subsidence problem, rather than declining the claim 
outright. Its taken steps to put right that mistake.
Mr M doesnt think those steps go far enough to make up for the impact of the mistake.
Its my role to consider what position Mr M would likely have been in had St Andrews not 
made the mistake  and whether St Andrews has returned Mr M as close to that position as 
is reasonably possible. There are three main points to consider:
Financial loss
Quality of repairs
Overall handling and impact on Mr M
What should have happened
After Mr M returned to St Andrews in 2019, it appointed a loss adjuster experienced in 
dealing with subsidence claims. They arranged an inspection and relevant investigations, 
such as soil testing, drain testing, and arborist advice. They removed vegetation thought to 
be causing the subsidence and carried out repairs to the building.
These are all steps commonly taken in subsidence claims. I understand none of this took 
place in 2015. If the claim had been handled properly in 2015, I think its likely these kinds of 
steps would have taken place to resolve the problem.
That means Mr M would still have had to go through a subsidence claim and the 
inconvenience and distress that inevitably brings. So he would still have a subsidence claim 
on his insurance record and a home that had a history of subsidence. I dont think those 
things would have been different had the claim been accepted in 2015.
Mr M notes the damage was more significant by 2019  so if it had been dealt with in 2015, 
there would have been less damage to repair. I agree. That would likely have reduced the 
time it took to carry out repairs. And if things had been dealt with properly in 2015, Mr M 
wouldnt have suffered the distress of seeing the damage worsening over time.
But whilst there would likely have been less damage and repair in 2015, there would still 
have been some. So I dont think it would be fair to say the mistake in 2015 caused the need 
for repairs. Rather, it increased the extent of repair.
Financial loss
Mr Ms main point is that his house may be less valuable as a result of the subsidence 
problem. Im afraid thats an inevitable consequence of subsidence itself, and not the way St 
Andrews handled the claim. And this consequential loss of value isnt covered by the policy.
In principle, if Mr M suffered a financial loss as a direct result of the mistake St Andrews 
made in 2015, thats something Id likely ask it to pay him as compensation, which is outside 
of the policy terms.
For this point, that would likely mean showing that when selling the house, the value had 
been lessened solely by the additional extent of repair required in 2019  over and above 
that which would have been required in 2015. Mr M hasnt provided evidence to show a loss 
along these lines has been suffered  or what value it might be. I dont think it would be fair 
to expect St Andrews to pay for an unspecified potential loss that might never happen.
I understand Mr M was unable to find evidence of the exact amount he paid for the thermal 
joint, given it was installed many years ago. St Andrews agreed a figure of £750 with Mr M 
and added 8% interest to this amount from around the time its likely to have been paid. I 
dont think this amount is in dispute, but Im satisfied its a fair and pragmatic way to ensure 
Mr M isnt out of pocket for the unnecessary work carried out.Quality of repairs
Mr M would like St Andrews to return his property to the way it was prior to the 2015 claim. 
As Ive outlined above, it would always have been subject to subsidence repairs, even if the 
mistake hadnt been made. But Ive considered whether St Andrews carried out a 
reasonable repair.
The policy covers the cost of repairing subsidence damage. St Andrews is required to carry 
out an effective and lasting repair of the damage. That includes providing a reasonable 
match to similar surrounding areas. Ive looked at the photos Mr M has provided, and Im 
satisfied the repairs carried out by St Andrews provide a reasonable match. The render is 
the same colour and is likely to weather in over time.
Overall handling and impact on Mr M
Its clear the way the claim was handled in 2015 has had an impact on Mr M. Its taken 
several years longer to resolve the original problem than it should have done. And its given 
him cause for concern about the value of his house.
Hes mentioned numerous times his worry that the original surveyor acted negligently. I cant 
make a finding about professional negligence  but St Andrews has clearly accepted a 
mistake was made. Although its taken steps to put that right, I think Mr M has found this a 
distressing and disappointing experience.
Mr Ms complaint also included some delays and communication problems during the 2019 
claim. St Andrews accepted this had happened and avoidably added to Mr Ms distress.
Taking this into account, along with the other areas of distress, inconvenience and 
disappointment noted above, Im satisfied £1,100 is reasonable compensation in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman