The complaint
Mr K complains about the service he received from Lloyds Bank PLC when he discovered it 
had revised the terms and conditions for his credit card which affected his direct debit 
payments.  
What happened
Mr K has a credit card with Lloyds. On 27 September 2018 he said he received a text 
message stating that as a reminder any payments to his credit card would not reduce the 
direct debit that would be taken from his bank account. He said this worried him immensely 
as he had already paid a significant sum into the credit card account within the previous 
couple of weeks before he received the message. He had not been aware that this was a 
new policy. 
Mr K complained to Lloyds on the phone. He said that at first the advisor wasn't aware of the 
change and agreed with Mr K that any payment Mr K paid to his credit card would either 
lower the amount of direct debit, or cancel it. After discussing with a colleague, Mr K said the 
advisor then changed his opinion. He said Mr K should have received a letter about this 
change. Mr K said he felt the advisor didn't believe him that he hadn't received the letter. He 
said he was very concerned and felt vulnerable because he had paid a signifiant amount of 
money to the credit card in the previous weeks and had no money left. He said a direct debit 
taken from his current account would put him into overdraft and incur charges. 
Mr K said the operator suggested the only option was to cancel the direct debit. But Mr K 
said this wasn't a good option as the direct debit automated the process of paying off the 
credit card balance. After the call Mr K did cancel the direct debit with his bank. 
On 2 October Lloyds called Mr K and apologised. It said not everyone had been sent letters. 
Mr K was annoyed that Lloyds hadn't sent him the new terms and conditions or a hard copy 
of the letter, given it now knew he hadn't received them. 
On 6 October Mr K discovered that despite cancelling the direct debit it appeared on his 
credit card account that the transaction had gone through. When he checked with his bank 
the money had not, in fact, been taken. He said he hadn't been advised that he had to 
cancel a direct debit with the credit card account. He had only done so with the bank so 
Lloyds had tried to take the direct debit. Mr K was also annoyed because he had had to take 
time out from his holiday to check this. He complained to Lloyds. 
In its final response Lloyds upheld the complaint and offered Mr K £50 to cover distress and 
inconvenience. It said it was unable to evidence any correspondence being sent to him in 
relation to the charges on direct debits for credit cards and apologised for this. 
DRN-1002388Mr K brought his complaint to this service. He wanted a copy of the terms and conditions 
and remuneration for time spent dealing with this complaint and the distress caused.  
Our investigator thought that Lloyds should have done more to help Mr K and felt that it 
should pay him £100 for the trouble and upset. She said while it was clear Lloyds was trying 
to help Mr K during the call it didn't explain things clearly enough, and he was clearly deeply 
concerned about his financial circumstances. But she didn't think Lloyds had acted unfairly 
with respect to the direct debit. 
Lloyds provided additional commentary regarding information contained in Mr K's statements 
in support of its case that Mr K was informed about the changes to direct debits. The 
investigator issued a second unchanged view in response. 
Lloyds said it believed every effort was made to make all customers aware of the changes 
and when they would come into effect and had made no error. Mr K said he was still unable 
to find the terms and conditions online. So it has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I shall be instructing 
Lloyds to pay Mr K £100. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K has said he did not receive a letter prior to the changes to direct debit payments. The 
terms and conditions of Mr K's account state that customers should be notified of any 
changes 30 days before it happens. Lloyds has said it did notify its customers by letter. I'm 
not disputing that Lloyds sent out notification to customers in general. But in its final 
response Lloyds itself said it was unable to evidence any correspondence being set to Mr K 
in relation to the changes on direct debits for credit cards. 
During our investigation Lloyds said it believed every effort had been made to make all 
customers aware of the changes but it was unable to provide evidence to this service that 
the letter was sent to Mr K. It was able to send a screen shot of the system notes regarding 
the text message but not the letter. In its final response Lloyds originally offered Mr K £50 to 
cover the distress and inconvenience and apologised that he "hadn't been mailed in regards 
to this".
Lloyds sent us a template copy of the letter. This letter advises customers that if their direct 
debit is due on or after 27 September Lloyds will take the direct debit amount shown on the 
statement. And that this amount will not be reduced by any payments the customer may 
have made before 27 September. I agree this letter is very clear about the changes to the 
direct debit but the content of the letter is not in dispute. Mr K said he didn't receive the letter 
and while Lloyds is not responsible for the letter being delivered I would expect a record of it 
being generated and sent to be in Mr K's contact notes or system notes.  
Therefore I'm satisfied that Lloyds cannot be certain that a letter was actually sent and 
indeed admitted as such to Mr K. £50 does seem fair and reasonable for this error. And 
Lloyds did issue an apology. I listened to the call recording provided by Lloyds. It is clear that Mr K was very concerned 
on the call about the direct debit. He said he hadn't received the letter and repeatedly asked 
for some help to deal with the fact that the direct debit would go through and may cause him 
to go overdrawn on his current account. 
While the advisor on the phone did try to help Mr K it is evident at the beginning of the call 
that the advisor himself was not aware of the change because he quoted the old terms and 
conditions back to Mr K. The phone call appeared to go round in circles with the advisor 
repeatedly telling Mr K that Lloyds had sent the letter. Twice Mr K asked the advisor to log 
the complaint so he could end the call and figure out what he could do to help himself. I've 
no doubt the advisor's intention was to help Mr K but the option presented to him did not 
help and only sought to increase his concern. The option presented was for Mr K to cancel 
his direct debit which he was reluctant to do.
Mr K made several payments prior to this call which I'm satisfied he wouldn't have made had 
he known it wouldn't affect his direct debit. On the call the advisor is unable to evidence that 
the letter was sent. Mr K became increasingly concerned and in the end actually said to the 
advisor he was begging for him to write the complaint up so he could get off the phone and 
start looking into it to see what he could do. 
So I'm satisfied that Lloyds could have done more to help Mr K during the call and I believe 
an additional £50 is fair and reasonable in these circumstances. 
Mr K has asked for a copy of the terms and conditions. The investigator included a link to the 
terms and conditions in her view. Mr K also asked to be remunerated for the time he's spent 
sorting this out. I do understand that this has caused Mr K distress and inconvenience. 
Unfortunately we do not award compensation for specific units of time. I've thought carefully 
about this and believe that £100 in total is fair and reasonable and what I would expect in the 
circumstances. 
Mr K has also complained that he wasn't informed by Lloyds how to cancel the direct debit 
and that this should be done with Lloyds. Having listened to the call I can see that Lloyds did 
advise Mr K that an option to stop the payment would be to cancel the direct debit but it's not 
certain that this was the course of action Mr K would be taking as Mr K was going to figure 
out what to do next. So I don't believe Lloyds has made and error here. 
Putting things right
I'm satisfied that it's quite possible Lloyds did not send the letter confirming the changes to 
direct debit. And when Mr K made the additional payments I believe he did not know these 
would not be deducted from the amount the direct debit would collect. 
 My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2020.
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman