DRN-3169031
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are business partners. They complain about the actions of The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc (RBS) regarding the management of their business loan accounts.
What happened
During the 2000s the partners had a number of loan and overdraft facilities with RBS to 
support their property business.
The partners business ran into difficulties at the time of the 2008 financial crisis. From 2008 
onwards, properties were sold to reduce the partnership debt. In November 2010, RBS 
transferred the management of their accounts to the banks Global Restructuring Group 
(GRG). In February 2012, LPA receivers were appointed and the remaining security 
properties were sold. 
The partners complained to RBS in 2018. The bank reviewed part of the complaint under its 
voluntary GRG complaints scheme and the outcome was that bank offered the partners a 
total of £1,339.71 plus interest, in redress for unreasonably charged interest and a refund of 
an overcharged security review fee. Following consideration by the Independent Third Party, 
which was the appeal stage of the review process, the bank confirmed in 2020 that the 
outcome of the review was unchanged. Other parts of the partners complaint were reviewed 
separately by the bank which gave a final response in 2021 that didnt uphold the complaint.
The partners were unhappy with the banks responses and referred their complaint to this 
service.
Mr and Mrs H explained that their complaint to this service can be separated into two main 
parts:
The partners business was treated unreasonably by the bank after the transfer to 
GRG. This culminated in their losing the opportunity to sell their property portfolio.
Before the partners accounts were transferred to GRG, the banks relationship 
manager acted as a shadow director, forged documents and failed to allocate funds 
correctly to accounts after property sales.
Our investigator looked at all the evidence provided and concluded that RBS didnt need to 
do anything further. In summary, he gave the following reasons:
The partners complained that the transfer to GRG was the result of the bank using 
desktop valuations when making loan-to-value (LTV) assessments. But the 
investigator noted that the LTV wasnt the banks only concern  the bank explained 
at the time that the partnership had loan facilities totalling more than £4m which had 
expired and a further £56,000 unauthorised overdraft. The bank was concerned 
about the partnership not being able to cover the interest payments on its borrowing. 
For these reasons, the investigator didnt think it was unreasonable to transfer the 
partners accounts to a specialist department like the GRG.
The partners complained that in the autumn of 2010, RBS unfairly delayed 
agreement to the sale of properties which ultimately led to the buyer pulling out. But 
the investigator thought the evidence showed that the bank withheld its agreement 
because the partners hadnt provided information it requested, such as the rental 
income they would receive after the properties were sold and the source of the funds 
for the purchase. The investigator thought it wasnt unreasonable for the bank to 
seek the information, in order to meet its wider regulatory requirements and to 
understand how the partnership would support the debt that would remain 
outstanding. As not all the requested information was provided in time, the bank was 
unable to provide its agreement.
The partners complained that their relationship manager, before the transfer to GRG, 
acted as a shadow director for their business. This was the subject of a previous 
complaint to the bank in 2011, when the partners said the manager advised and 
assisted on every aspect of the business. The bank investigated in 2011 and 
concluded that the manager hadnt acted unreasonably. Our investigator said he 
could see that that the manager worked closely with the partners, including on 
property sales and acquisitions. But the investigator didnt think it was unusual at the 
time, when it was common for managers to develop long-standing relationships with 
customers. From what he could see, Mr and Mrs H were in control of their business 
at all stages and were experienced in the property sector. 
The partners made other allegations about the relationship managers actions during 
the period before the accounts were moved to GRG, including that he operated a 
secret account, forged documents and used the proceeds of sales for the partners 
interest payments rather than repayment of their debt. But in each case the 
investigator said the partners hadnt provided specific evidence to enable these 
events to be investigated. The bank said that its own investigations found no 
evidence of a secret account or forged documents. Our investigator didnt think the 
available evidence showed that the bank had done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with the investigators findings. In particular, they said that the 
relationship manager had exerted an influence over the partnership business that was 
greater than the investigator accepted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im sorry to tell Mr and Mrs H that Ive come to the same conclusions as 
the investigator and for largely the same reasons.
Management of the partners accounts by GRG
In my view, the bank was entitled to decide on its own management arrangements for the 
partners accounts, as long as it treated its customers fairly. 
I appreciate that the partners feel the banks LTV figures were subject to uncertainty 
because it had used desk-based updates for the property valuations. But Im satisfied that 
the banks decision to move the accounts to GRG was based on the overall financial 
situation of the partnership business, rather than the LTV figures alone. At the time, the 
partners lending had expired and they faced business difficulties, so I dont think it was 
unreasonable for RBS to move the management of the accounts to a specialist unit.RBS informed the partners about the change of account management by letter and in a 
meeting. I think the banks communication about the move to GRG was clear.
For these reasons, I dont think RBS treated the partnership unfairly by transferring the 
accounts to GRG.
In October 2010, at the same time as the transfer to GRG, the partners told the bank that 
they were considering selling their properties (alongside the sale of other properties by other 
businesses controlled by the partners), having received an offer. The bank asked for 
information about the sale  about the funding for the purchase, about the purchase price 
compared with current property values, and about how the residual debt would be serviced. 
There were exchanges between the parties in October and November 2010, during which 
the partners provided information and the bank made further requests. By the end of 
November, the partners had provided some of the information sought by the bank, but not 
all. During November, the partners agent told them the potential buyer had withdrawn their 
offer because of delays.
In response to the partners complaint, RBS argued that it had been entitled to request 
information about the proposed sale so that it could fully assess the proposals and provide 
an informed decision on whether or not to consent to release its security. In the 
circumstances, I think the banks view was fair and reasonable. It had concerns about the 
customers debt that would remain after the properties were sold, and it had regulatory 
obligations concerning the funds for the purchase. 
RBS therefore had legitimate reasons to assess the risks of discharging the security and 
needed information from the partners to make that assessment. For these reasons, I dont 
think the bank unreasonably delayed the partners plans to sell the properties in 2010.
The relationship managers actions before the accounts were moved to GRG
The partners claim that the RBS relationship manager had undue influence over their 
business and acted as a shadow director. They say he worked closely with the business 
between 2005 and 2010. Ive looked at events during this period and I cant see any 
evidence of his actions regarding the business that were outside the usual role of a 
relationship manager at the time. I agree with the investigator and the bank that the partners 
were experienced property developers and were in control of their own business. I also note 
that the partners lending applications were subject to the usual scrutiny and clearance by 
the banks credit assessors, and Im therefore satisfied that consideration was given to the 
serviceability of the lending by bank staff other than the relationship manager.
Its clear that the partners and the manager became good friends  he visited their home and 
had meals with them. Again, I agree with the investigator that it wasnt uncommon at the 
time for relationship managers to socialise with their customers, and I believe the partners 
were in control of their own business. However, I note that at the end of 2008 the partners 
lent the relationship manager a family car while his was being repaired. In my view, this was 
unprofessional on the part of the relationship manager and it could be described as an 
abuse of their friendship, given the imbalance of power between the bank and the customer. 
But I havent seen any evidence that the loan of the car caused the partnership business any 
loss or contributed to any of the problems regarding the transfer to GRG.
Taking all the evidence into account, I dont think the relationship manager had undue 
influence over the partnership business or caused any losses as a result of his close 
relationship with the partners.Mr and Mrs H say the relationship manager operated a secret account. But theyve given no 
details of what the account was used for or how it affected their business. Ive been shown 
no evidence that such an account existed. In the circumstances, I cant fairly or reasonably 
conclude that the bank did anything wrong here.
The partners have sent us a copy of an asset statement for Mr H, which they claim to be 
forged. Im not a handwriting expert, so I havent attempted to assess whether the signature 
on the document is genuine. But in any event, the partners havent said how this document 
affected their relationship with RBS or how it led to any losses. I note that the statement 
dates from May 2010, when the partners RBS lending had already expired. The accounts 
were transferred to GRG only four months later. Even if, as the partners suggest, some 
assets were overstated in the document, they havent said how it was used or how it would 
have disadvantaged them in their dealings with RBS. In the light of the available evidence 
and arguments, I cant fairly or reasonably conclude that the bank caused the partners any 
losses in respect of this document. 
I can see that when the partnership ran into difficulties, funds generated from refinancing its 
loans and from property sales were increasingly devoted to the running of the business  
including its regular loan repayments to the bank  rather than to reduction of its debt. But 
theres no evidence that this was a decision made by the relationship manager rather than 
partners. The partners have also suggested that the charges which the bank held over the 
properties werent removed when they were sold, but I cant see that there were any 
problems with the transfer of the properties to the new owners, so I believe they were sold 
unencumbered. 
Having considered all the available evidence, I dont believe the partners suffered any losses 
caused by the bank incorrectly allocating funds from refinancing or from property sales.
In summary
Having looked at all the evidence and arguments in this complaint, I dont require RBS to do 
anything further.
In its GRG review outcome, RBS offered the partners a total of £1,339.71 plus interest. The 
bank has said this offer remains open. The partners should contact RBS directly if they wish 
to accept the banks offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman