DRN-1618992
The complaint 
Mr and Mrs L complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to them alongside a mortgage in 1990. 
When PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs L, BOS was trading as the Leeds Permanent Building 
Society. For ease of reference, Ill refer to BOS for the rest of this decision. 
Background
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with 
that view. They said BOS told them they had to buy a PPI policy. They didnt think they 
needed a PPI policy because they were both in secure jobs with no prospect of redundancy. 
They also had savings they could have used to make their mortgage repayments if one of 
them was out of work. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs L, but Im afraid I havent upheld their complaint. Ill 
explain why below. 
Mr and Mrs L told us PPI was sold to them during a meeting. I cant know what was said 
during that meeting, so to help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive looked at 
what Mr and Mrs L told us about it. And Ive considered some paperwork and electronic 
records from BOS that are available from the time. 
Mr and Mrs L said that BOS told them the policy was compulsory and they didnt have a 
choice about buying it. I dont doubt that what Mr and Mrs L told us is what they honestly 
remember about the sale. But I also have to bear in mind that its difficult to remember 
precisely what happened 30 years ago, which is when this policy was sold. Ive also been 
mindful that Mr and Mrs L took out an endowment mortgage  so the endowment policy 
would have been compulsory, whereas the PPI policy was not. 
I havent seen any paperwork from the actual sale, but I have been given a copy of the policy 
document. I can see that very early in the document, it tells Mr and Mrs L that they can 
cancel their policy within 14 days if they didnt want it. Thats not consistent with the PPI 
being a compulsory policy. Ive also been provided with an electronic note of a call Mr L 
made to BOS in 1995 where he appears to have cancelled the policy some time before the 
mortgage was redeemed. Its not clear why Mr L would have cancelled the PPI if hed been 
led to believe it was a requirement of the mortgage. On balance, I cant say its most likely 
that Mr and Mrs L were told they had to take PPI. BOS advised Mr and Mrs L to buy PPI. So it had to make sure the cover was suitable for 
their needs. To help me decide whether the cover was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of the cover. And Ive also considered what Mr and Mrs L told us about their 
personal circumstances at the time. 
I can see that if theyd had to make a claim on the policy, Mr and Mrs Ls repayments would 
have been covered for up to 12 months if they were off sick from work or if they lost their 
jobs. They told us that they wouldnt get any sick pay from their employers if they were off 
work, so it follows that the PPI cover would have lasted significantly longer and paid more 
than any sick pay they would have received.  
Mr and Mrs L told us that they were in secure jobs. I have no reason to doubt what they say 
on that point. However, I dont think they can reasonably know that they wouldnt be made 
redundant over the life of their mortgage, which was 25 years. And while I can see that Mrs L 
told us she would have received enhanced redundancy pay of at least three months, the PPI 
would have covered them for considerably longer. 
Ive also been mindful that Mr and Mrs L told us they had savings that they could have used 
to repay their mortgage if necessary. In their PPI form, they told us their savings were the 
equivalent of between three and six months salary. With PPI, I think they could have used 
those savings on their other essential expenditure at what would have no doubt been a very 
stressful time if either of them was out of work. I think it is so important for me to stress that 
their mortgage was secured on their home. And if they fell behind with those repayments, 
the consequences could have been serious. 
Mr and Mrs L told us that they were in good health at the time they bought this cover. And I 
havent seen anything unusual about their circumstances that would have stopped them 
making a successful claim if they needed to. With all of this in mind, despite their job 
security, I think the PPI was a suitable recommendation. 
Even so, BOS still had to give Mr and Mrs L enough information about the cover so they 
could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. I think its possible that 
the information BOS gave them wasnt as clear as it could have been. But Ive set out above 
how I think the cover could have been helpful if Mr and Mrs L were out of work. It follows 
then that I dont think more or better information about the PPI would have caused Mr and 
Mrs L to change their minds about it. 
Taking all of this into account, I havent upheld this complaint. I dont require BOS to take 
any further action in respect of it. 
My final decision 
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman