DRN-3118405
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society mishandled a chargeback claim and as a 
result caused him financial difficulties. 
What happened
Mr A came across a broker Ill refer to as G online. G persuaded him to invest £5,000 (using 
his Nationwide Visa debit card linked to his current account) with a regulated investment 
company Ill call I on 5 December 2019 and he was provided with an online trading account. 
Mr A was subsequently blocked from his trading account and when he eventually regained 
access, he had lost all his money.
In June 2020, Mr A asked Nationwide for assistance with recovering his money via a 
chargeback claim. Nationwide attempted a chargeback claim and temporarily credited the 
disputed amount to Mr As account whilst it disputed matters with Is bank. Mr A said 
Nationwide advised him the money was his to keep (a point disputed by Nationwide) and he 
proceeded to spend it. 
A few months later, Nationwide advised Mr A that the chargeback claim had failed because 
Is bank defended it. It re-debited the temporary credit, which took Mr As current account 
into an unarranged overdraft. Mr A complained.
 
Nationwide issued its final response in November 2020 explaining that it advised Mr A when 
he first contacted it that a credit would be temporary if the claim was refuted. Nationwide 
stated it could have reminded him the claim was still ongoing when he called it in August 
2019. It also reflected on Mr As chargeback claim and noted it shouldnt have processed it 
from the information he provided. And it acknowledged the dispute being processed 
wouldve given him false hope. It paid him £250 compensation to recognise the trouble and 
upset this matter caused him.
Mr A referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators initially felt that 
Nationwide should set up a repayment plan over 24 months to assist Mr A with repaying the 
outstanding debt and remove any adverse information recorded against his credit file as a 
result of the debt. Nationwide was open to a repayment plan but said the investigators view 
was unworkable, it said it would still need to report the debt as being in arrears on a monthly 
basis and it would require manual adjustments which was unrealistic. It instead suggested 
that it could remove the adverse information once Mr A has repaid the debt. 
The case was passed to a new investigator who didnt think that Nationwide should do 
anything differently, she concluded I werent scammers and Nationwides offer of 
compensation was enough. Mr A didnt agree, he said his credit file had been impacted and 
asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
I wrote to Nationwide and Mr A with my thoughts that the complaint should be upheld in part, 
that Nationwide should refund interest and charges applied to Mr As overdrawn balance, 
come up with a repayment plan agreeable to both parties and remove adverse information 
recorded on Mr As credit file. I also explained that I thought the compensation paid should 
be increased to £500 in total to reflect the impact this matter has had on Mr A. 
Nationwide replied and explained that the matter of Mr As credit file had been dealt with as 
a separate complaint recently. It agreed as part of that complaint to pay Mr A £150 
compensation and remove all adverse information reported on his credit file from December 
2020. Mr A also repaid the debt. Nationwide provided notes of that conversation where Mr A 
confirmed he was happy with the outcome and for that complaint to be closed. Nationwide 
was happy for this service to consider its settlement of Mr As credit file complaint as part of 
this existing complaint. It noted it had already followed most of the actions in my proposed 
settlement and would agree for a total of £500 to be paid (meaning it would pay an additional 
£100 to settle this matter). 
Mr A was broadly happy with the outcome but he felt the compensation should be increased 
because this matter shouldnt have needed to be referred to this service and it has taken so 
long for it to be resolved which caused him trouble and upset.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold the complaint in part and Ill explain why: 
1. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa (the scheme relevant to Mr As debit 
card transaction) whereby they will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the 
merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of each scheme  so there 
are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is 
not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Nationwide) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
2. The only chargeback dispute reason code suitable for Nationwide to consider in Mr 
As case would have been reason code 13.5. This was available for investment 
trading disputes where the merchant (I) prevented the cardholder (Mr A) from 
withdrawing his available balances from his trading account. 
3. I think Nationwide tried to assist Mr A by processing a chargeback claim for him 
(given his concerns that he had been scammed) but it acknowledges that based on 
his original report, it shouldnt have processed it and this gave him false hope that his 
funds could be recovered. Ive listened to Mr As initial call with Nationwide on 5 June 
2020 and I heard him explain he paid £5,000 to an investment company and after a 
few months his balance went to zero. The adviser paused the call for a while whilst 
she looked into things and returned to say the following to Mr A: funds will not be 
credited to your account until we have reviewed the evidence. The adviser went onto 
say; if the company provides evidence that the disputed payment is genuine, we will 
make you aware of this and will let you know that we will be debiting our credit from 
your account. Mr A explained it was his first-time falling victim to a scam and trying 
to recover his payment this way and asked for advice on how it works. He also asked 
if he should submit Whatsapp conversations as evidence. The adviser told Mr A he 
should provide as much information as possible but she later said she cant advise 
what will happen as his evidence will need to go to a specialist team. I agree that 
based on this call and the limited chargeback grounds suitable for investment trading 
disputes that Mr A volunteered enough information for Nationwide to conclude that he might not have chargeback dispute options as he had a nil balance on his trading 
account. Though, I accept the adviser said it would have to be reviewed by a 
specialist chargeback team, so she may not have known in detail what could likely 
succeed or fail as an investment dispute claim and I dont think Mr A was misled at 
this point.
4. Mr A called Nationwide on 19 August 2020 (after receiving a credit of £5,000 into his 
account). Nationwide in its fraud notes suggests that this is the date he submitted all 
of his chargeback evidence. Im not persuaded of this. During the call of 5 June 2020, 
Mr A was told that he would need to submit the evidence within 28 days or the claim 
would be closed, so Im persuaded hed submitted the evidence in good time. In the 
call of 19 August 2020, Mr A advised that hed received a credit of £5,000 into his 
account and wanted to check that it was in relation to the chargeback dispute he 
submitted months earlier. The adviser informed Mr A that the credit was from 
Nationwide and confirmed it was in relation to the dispute. There was no mention that 
the funds could be re-debited and I think Mr A sincerely believed that his claim had 
been successful as it had been sometime since he raised his dispute. Its from this 
point that I think Nationwide ought to have provided clear information about the 
temporary credit and that the chargeback claim was still ongoing  something 
Nationwide acknowledges.
5. Nationwide wrote to Mr A in October 2020 to explain the funds would be re-debited 
within 22 days as the merchant confirmed the payment was valid. Its unclear under 
which reason code Nationwide processed the dispute but I think when the specialist 
chargeback team reviewed Mr As evidence, it ought to have concluded that the 
claim  had no reasonable prospect of success given that Mr As only reasonable 
chargeback option required him to have an available balance  which he didnt have. 
Even if Nationwide wanted to attempt a chargeback claim to assist Mr A, I think it 
ought to have better prepared him that a claim was unlikely to succeed. By his own 
admission to Nationwide, it was his first time raising this type of dispute, or indeed 
falling victim to what he believed to be a scam. He asked questions to try to 
understand the process and called Nationwide as soon as he received the payment 
to check it was related to his dispute. I think the subsequent letter of October 2020 
would have come as a shock to Mr A as he had since spent the temporary credit 
believing it was his to keep. 
6. However, whilst I think Nationwide could have been clearer with Mr A about the credit 
into his account in August 2020, I do think Nationwide tried to put things right by 
offering compensation of £250 by way of an apology. Whilst I know Mr A would have 
liked it to write off the debt, I dont think this would have been reasonable. Mr A had 
the benefit of the funds that werent his to keep (despite his belief they were) and was 
responsible to repay them following Nationwides requirement to return them to Is 
bank. 
7. I recognise that Mr As personal circumstances changed due to Covid 19 as he lost 
his employment. Whilst this is not Nationwides fault, it did delay processing the 
chargeback claim and in my opinion, it shouldnt have processed it based on the 
information provided by Mr A. Nationwide put Mr A in a difficult position and it was 
reasonably foreseeable that I (being a legitimate company) would defend the claim 
based on the information supplied by Mr A. Nationwide should have reasonably 
explained this to Mr A so that he could manage the temporary credit appropriately. 
8. Mr A has now repaid the outstanding debt with nothing left to pay and Nationwide 
has removed all adverse information relating to this matter from his credit file. It also 
paid him an additional £150 to recognise the impact the matter has had on him, 
which Mr A accepted and so I make no further finding on the matter of his credit file. 
9. Overall, I dont think Nationwide has done enough to recognise that it contributed to Mr As financial difficulties in regards to the debt he was left in and the impact this 
had on him. So I think it should pay an additional £100 which would make the overall 
compensation paid to Mr A £500. This covers all issues relating to Nationwides 
handling of his chargeback claim to I, along with the impact it had on his credit file. I 
recognise that Mr A would like additional compensation for the length of time its 
taken to resolve this matter. He also doesnt think he would have needed to refer the 
matter to this service if Nationwide had resolved things appropriately when he first 
complained. My role is to consider Mr As complaint against Nationwide. Im satisfied 
having considered everything, that £500 fairly reflects the impact Nationwides 
actions have had on Mr A. I think most of the trouble and upset Mr A experienced 
was caused by the advice he received from G which resulted in him losing £5,000 to 
an investment he believed would earn him a profit.
My final decision
My final decision is, I uphold Mr As complaint in part and require Nationwide Building 
Society to:
Pay an additional £100 compensation to Mr A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman