DRN-3554303
The complaint
Mr R and Mr A in their capacity as Trustees of the D Trust have complained about the advice 
given to them by Dunhams Financial Planning Limited in respect of the tax treatment of a 
bond.
What happened
In 1999, Dunhams advised the late Mr and Mrs W to invest £100,000 into a Wealth 
Preservation Bond (now known as the Inheritance Bond) with a provider now known as P. It 
advised them to place this into a Discounted Gift Trust (DGT) as a means of reducing their 
inheritance tax (IHT) liability.
In 2014, following the passing of Mr W, Mrs W approached Dunhams to determine her IHT 
liability and propose ways of mitigating it. Mr R and Mr A (Mrs Ws sons) were also present 
at these meetings.
In 2015 Dunhams gave recommendations as to how Mrs W could mitigate her IHT liability. 
As part of this advice, Dunhams told Mrs W that the funds held in the Inheritance Bond fell 
completely outside of her estate, as the money had been gifted over seven years previously. 
Mrs W sadly passed away in May 2019. Mr R and Mr A, as executors of the estate and as 
trustees of the Inheritance Bond engaged solicitors to wind up the estate. Dunhams was 
asked to provide information relating to the late Mrs Ws investments to assist with this. 
However, after filing the estate paperwork with HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC), it was 
discovered that the estate would need to pay IHT on part of the Inheritance Bond with P  
this was because the endowment element of the bond, valued at around £125,000, was 
always part of the late Mrs Ws estate. As a result, the estate incurred an unexpected IHT bill 
of £40,233.71. The executors were also required to resubmit paperwork to HMRC, incurring 
extra solicitor costs of £1,046.
Mr R and Mr A complained to Dunhams about the advice Mrs W had received in 2015. This 
was the subject of a complaint that I have already given a final decision on, so I wont be 
commenting on this further here.
Mr R and Mr A also complained about advice that they had each received in 2019 as 
trustees of the DGT that held the Inheritance Bond and a DGT holding another bond. They 
said this advice was incorrect (given the issue with the estate having to pay IHT on part of 
the bond) and they didnt think they should have to pay the associated advice fees. They 
were also unhappy that the reports hadnt been amended to reflect the true tax position of 
the Inheritance Bond.
Dunhams didnt agree to refund the advice fee, saying that it had performed the work set out 
in the letter of engagement. Dunhams said it was awaiting instruction from Mr R and Mr A as 
to how to proceed.
Unhappy with the response, Mr R and Mr A referred the complaint to our service. The 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Although he accepted a mistake had been made, he 
thought the advice fee charged wasnt excessive and Dunhams had provided the service it 
had been asked to give. He didnt think it was reasonable to expect Dunhams to reissue the 
advice reports given the bonds in question had either been reassigned or encashed and the 
relationship between Mr R, Mr A and Dunhams had broken down.
Mr R and Mr A remained unhappy and so asked for a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for largely the same reasons given by the 
investigator.
It is evident that the content of the reports produced by Dunhams in December 2019 for 
Mr R and Mr A is inaccurate insofar as they relate to the Inheritance Bond. Dunhams thought 
that the entirety of the bond fell outside of the late Mrs Ws estate and so was free of IHT. It 
also believed that the bond could be reassigned to the beneficiaries  this would avoid the 
trustees triggering a chargeable gain. But as is detailed above, that isnt the case.
It should be noted however, that the assessment and recommendation put forward by 
Dunhams in respect of the other bond (not the subject of either of the complaints) is correct 
and has since been implemented. This has ensured that the trustees havent had to pay any 
capital gains tax as the bond was able to be reassigned to the beneficiaries. So, in terms of 
the reports provided by Dunhams, it cant be said the advice was wholly inaccurate.
Furthermore, it was as a result of the assessment and recommendation put forward by 
Dunhams that the issue with the Inheritance Bond was discovered. Dunhams engaged with 
P to ascertain whether anything else could be done. And P initially told Dunhams that it was 
possible to assign the whole of the bond to one of the beneficiaries. However, ultimately it 
was clarified that this wasnt possible and so the bond had to be encashed, which led to the 
unexpected IHT bill for the estate.
While Dunhams initial assessment of the tax position of the Inheritance Bond was incorrect, 
it went on to establish the correct position. It set out in detail what that was (and why) in its 
email of 3 June 2020 and explained Mr R and Mr As options. I appreciate that Mr R and 
Mr A were disappointed with the issue in relation to the IHT bill and they had already acted 
upon Dunhams earlier mistake. But the impact of this on the estate has already been 
considered in the final decision I made about the estates complaint. My role here is limited 
to determining whether it was reasonable for Dunhams to charge the associated advice fee. 
Ultimately Im satisfied that it was reasonable. Dunhams was engaged to determine the tax 
position of the bonds and advise Mr R and Mr A on their options. The fee for this work was 
agreed in advance and Im satisfied that the service was provided, even if it took additional 
time for Dunhams to clarify the final position in respect of the Inheritance Bond. Its also clear 
that Dunhams was prepared to rectify the position with HMRC as part of the service, 
although I respect why Mr R and Mr A didnt wish to deal with Dunhams further.
I understand that Mr R and Mr A feel they were forced into paying the advice fee before the 
completion of the service. But I can see that the invoice was issued in February 2020, and a 
polite reminder for payment was sent in April 2020. Mr R and Mr A responded in late 
April 2020 voicing their concerns and frustrations. This was met with a polite 
acknowledgment from Dunhams and a further request for payment. However, after not 
receiving a reply Dunhams chased this again in May 2020, advising that it would not progress matters further without payment.
I dont think that was unreasonable given the invoice had been sent over three months ago. 
I also dont think it was unreasonable for Dunhams to request payment of the fee in 
February 2020. Dunhams had completed the first phase of the advice and was continuing its 
enquiries in respect of the Inheritance Bond. It was able to confirm the final position to Mr R 
and Mr A in June 2020, around two weeks later. So, even if Dunhams had delayed asking 
for payment until 3 June 2020 I dont think Mr R and Mr A having to pay the fee in May 2020 
has caused them detriment. And, like the investigator I dont see the value in Dunhams 
reissuing the report given the bonds have now been dealt with and Dunhams email of 
3 June 2020 has clarified the tax position.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mr A as 
Trustees of the D Trust to accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman