DRN-3949628
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax has provided misleading 
information in relation to his credit card account.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why below.
Mr H, in his own submissions to this service, has said that he banks online and uses the 
Halifax banking app. Halifax has explained that it sent a letter outlining the revised Terms 
and Conditions to Mr H on 21 July 2021. This explained that the cashback award was 
capped at £190 and anything above this would not be redeemable. The revised Terms and 
Conditions were sent to Mr Hs online banking inbox and Halifax explains it was marked as 
read. I have reviewed the letter and am satisfied that it clearly states the cashback is 
capped at £190. As Mr H has said he regularly uses his Halifax online banking application, I 
am persuaded that he received the letter outlining the revised Terms and Conditions; and in 
turn ought to have been aware about the cap.
Since our Investigator issued his opinion, Mr H has said:
I accept the fact that Halifax have followed their own process around issuing revised T&Cs
Therefore, I will move on to consider if Halifax has provided misleading information. 
Mr H said that the banking application shows that the cashback amount is £450, and he 
feels this is unfair and deceiving to customers.
While I am satisfied that the letter Mr H received (via his mobile banking application) on 21 
July 2021 clearly outlines that the cashback amount is capped at £190, I have gone on to 
consider other correspondence which was available to Mr H. 
I have reviewed Mr Hs statements for September 2021 and September 2022. In both these 
statements it clearly highlights that the cashback awarded will be £190. Again, in line with 
the letter sent to Mr H on 21 July 2021. These statements would have been available to Mr 
H via online banking. As mentioned above, Mr H has confirmed he uses this, and I cant 
ignore the fact its his responsibility to ensure he is reviewing his statements.
So, while I appreciate Mr H is unhappy with how the cashback amount is showing online, as 
it is showing as cashback earned I am not persuaded that this is misleading. I say this 
because, while it may show as earned Mr H was aware, through multiple forms of 
correspondence, that the earned amount would be capped at £190. As such, he ought to 
have known he would only ever qualify for the £190 cashback award. 
With this in mind, I wont be asking Halifax to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman