DRN-3315228
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about Cabot Credit Management Group Limited pursuing her for a 
debt which she says she doesnt owe.
What happened
This complaint surrounds a credit card account which was sold to Cabot. In 2017, a county 
court judgement (CCJ) was granted against Mrs S for this account.
Mrs Ss representative explained that she was unaware of this account, and that it was 
opened and used by her now-deceased partner, who didnt tell her about it. They asked for 
the debt to be written off.
Our investigator explained that in granting a CCJ, a court had decided that Mrs S owed the 
money, and we couldnt overturn court decisions. They also explained it was the original 
creditor who were responsible for how the account was opened or any fraudulent spending. 
They explained how Mrs S could take her complaint to the court and the original lender.
Mrs Ss representatives didnt agree. They felt that as Cabot now owned the account, the 
complaint should be against them. The matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service does not have a free hand to consider every complaint thats referred to us. 
There are rules setting out which complaints we can and cannot look at. These rules are set 
out in the handbook of the Financial Conduct Authority (or FCA for short), and are known as 
the Dispute Resolution Rules (or DISP for short).
DISP 2.3.1 says that we can only consider a complaint about a business if its about the 
business carrying out certain types of activities. The relevant category for Mrs Ss complaint 
is regulated activities  which includes debt collecting.
So normally, if a business is trying to collect a debt under a regulated credit agreement, 
thats usually a regulated activity, which would be something we could look at. But once a 
CCJ is granted, the original credit agreement falls away. And instead of the money being 
owed under a credit agreement, its then owed under the CCJ instead. So in order to recover 
the money owed, the business is no longer collecting a debt under a credit agreement  it 
can only attempt to recover the money by enforcing the court judgement. And enforcing 
court judgements is not a regulated activity. So we cant consider complaints where the 
business are trying to enforce a CCJ, like what Cabot are doing here.
Further  and perhaps more importantly for this case  the Financial Ombudsman Service is 
only an informal alternative to the courts. We are generally unable to make decisions about 
issues that have already been dealt with in court. And we dont have the power to overturn or 
undo court decisions.
Here, as part of a CCJ, a court decided that Mrs S was responsible for this debt. And I do 
not have any power to overturn or undo that. I cannot set aside the CCJ or write off the 
account. So I cant help with the crux of Mrs Ss complaint  Im afraid its simply outside the 
jurisdiction of our service. As our investigator explained, Mrs Ss representative would need 
to contest the CCJ with the courts directly.
In regard to how the credit card was opened and spent on, thats not something that would 
be appropriate to look at against Cabot. I understand the representatives arguments about 
how Cabot own the debt now. But the key question is who actually carried out the activities 
in question  i.e. which business opened the account and allowed it to be spent on. 
Here, Cabot did not open this account. And Cabot did not administer it when the spending 
took place. It was the original lender who opened the credit card, and it was the original 
lender who administered the card as it was being spent on. So any complaint about the card 
being opened or spent on fraudulently would be best directed to the original lender. It would 
not be appropriate to look at that against Cabot. As our investigator set out, Mrs S and her 
representative can of course ask for our help in any complaint against the original lender.
Lastly, in the limited scope of time where I can consider Cabots actions, Ive not found them 
to have done anything substantially wrong. Prior to the CCJ, they were pursuing a debt 
which theyd purchased in good faith.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Cabot Credit Management Group Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman