DRN-3696623
The complaint
Mrs H complains JAJA FINANCE LTD (JAJA) didnt do enough to protect her from losing 
money to an investment scam.
What happened
In August 2020 Mrs H made a payment of £2,206.60 to TransferWise using her JAJA credit 
card, funds which were then sent onto a merchant going by the name of Concept4x for what 
Mrs H thought was a legitimate investment. 
Mrs H contacted JAJA when she realised she had been scammed. As JAJA didnt reimburse 
Mrs H, she remained unhappy, and referred her complaint about JAJA to this service. As the 
investigator here (who recommended that the complaint be upheld) was unable to resolve 
the matter informally, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint, for materially the same reasons as the investigator. Ill 
explain why.
Recovery  chargeback and section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
After the payment was made, I couldnt reasonably expect JAJA to have done anything 
further until Mrs H notified it of the scam. Then, because this was a credit card payment, the 
two potential avenues for potential recovery of the payment would have been chargeback, 
and section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
However, Mrs H made the payment from her JAJA credit card to TransferWise (and not 
directly to Concept4x). This means the merchant here, for chargeback and section 75 
purposes, would be TransferWise (and not Concept4x). TransferWise legitimately provided 
the services intended (which was to send money onto the details Mrs H provided). The 
transfer of the funds through TransferWise onto Concept4x would not give rise to a valid 
chargeback claim through JAJA, and there would be no valid claim under section 75 either, 
as the debtor-creditor-supplier link is broken given Mrs H paid TransferWise  a legitimate 
merchant. So I dont think this payment was recoverable by JAJA once it had been made.
Should JAJA have reasonably prevented the payment in the first place?
Having decided the above, I can only uphold this complaint if I think JAJA reasonably ought 
to have prevented the payment to TransferWise in the first place  therefore preventing 
Mrs Hs loss.
Its common ground that Mrs H authorised the scam payment in question here. She was 
tricked by the scammer into instructing JAJA to make the payment. I accept this was an 
authorised payment even though Mrs H was tricked. So although she didnt intend the 
money to go to a scammer, Mrs H is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider JAJA 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
My fellow ombudsmen and I have referenced the relevant rules, codes of practice and good
industry practice at the time in many previous decisions published our website.
JAJA has said that it did flag and block Mrs Hs payment. And that after a conversation with 
Mrs H, within which, it says, Mrs H confirmed the payment to be genuine, the blocks were 
removed to allow Mrs H to proceed with the payment.
The very nature of scams like this  where a consumer authorises a payment as a result of a 
scam  is that the consumer thinks the payment is for a genuine endeavour. So I think JAJA 
reasonably ought to have been aware that a consumer authorising a payment for what they 
think is a genuine endeavour does not mean they are not being scammed. 
In order to properly protect Mrs H from the risk of harm, in a case like this where the 
payment flagged on JAJAs systems for checks before it was processed (and JAJA spoke to 
Mrs H), I think JAJA reasonably ought to, therefore, when it spoke to Mrs H to check 
everything was in order, have asked her who the payment was for, what it was for, and for 
basic surrounding context, and to have then proceeded appropriately from there with the 
intention to disturb or unearth a potential fraud or scam. Ive not seen evidence that satisfies 
me JAJA did this, in circumstances where I think it should have. 
I have no reason to believe Mrs H wouldnt have been open with JAJA, if it had such an 
appropriate conversation with her before processing the payment. In which case, I think 
JAJA would have quickly learned from its conversation with Mrs H the basic background to 
the payment instruction  that Mrs H was making a payment to TransferWise to transfer 
money to Concept4x for an investment.
Given JAJAs obligations Ive summarised above, and that JAJA reasonably ought to have 
been aware of the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, including 
investment scams like this, I dont think JAJAs conversation with Mrs H ought to have 
stopped there.
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA  the UK regulator) published a warning about 
Concept4x in April 2020, some four months before Mrs Hs payment instruction, that it 
believed Concept4x may be providing financial services or products without its authorisation. Ive seen a snapshot of Concept4xs website in August 2020, on which Concept4x 
advertised itself as one of the worlds fastest growing and best Forex trading platform.  
The FCA banned the sale and marketing of binary options in the UK from 2 April 2019. And
immediately prior to this, binary options/forex traders offering services in the UK were
required to be regulated by the FCA, and Concept4x wasnt. I think JAJA really ought to 
have been aware of this, and following an appropriate conversation with Mrs H, given her a 
warning about investment scams like this.
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied if JAJA had done this, its most likely Mrs H 
would have decided the risk of proceeding with the payment was too high for her to accept. 
So I think ultimately, if JAJA had done what it reasonably ought to have done, Mrs H 
wouldnt have lost this money.
Putting things right
Ive thought about whether Mrs H should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. Im not satisfied such a reduction in compensation is appropriate here. I think 
Mrs H was in the dark and wouldnt have been aware of scams like this. In my view, it was 
the failure of JAJA to have an appropriate conversation with Mrs H when the payment 
flagged that really caused the loss.
JAJA should therefore reimburse Mrs H the money she lost to the scam, and pay Mrs H 
interest at 8% simple per year to compensate her from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, I uphold this complaint and I direct JAJA FINANCE LTD to 
pay Mrs H £2,206.60 plus interest calculated at 8% simple per year from the date of loss to 
the date of settlement. If JAJA FINANCE LTD deducts tax in relation to the interest element 
of the award, it should provide Mrs H with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman