DRN-4479162
The complaint
Mrs B is complaining that Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF) shouldnt have lent to her 
 she says they were irresponsible in doing so. Mrs B brought her complaint to us via a 
representative, but for ease Ive written as if weve dealt directly with her.
What happened
In June 2019, Mrs B took out a hire purchase agreement with SMF to finance the purchase 
of a vehicle. She paid a deposit of £5 and borrowed £5,995  the cash price of the vehicle 
was £6,000. The agreement required Mrs B to make 59 monthly repayments of £166.99, 
followed by a final instalment of £176.99 (including a £10 option to purchase fee).  
In July 2022, Mrs B complained to SMF, saying that she thought SMF had failed to conduct 
appropriate checks before lending to her. She said she had a number of active credit 
agreements at the time of the lending as well as two defaulted accounts and two further 
accounts which had defaulted and been passed to debt recovery companies. 
In response, SMF said when shed applied, Mrs B told them she earned £1,500 net monthly 
income, was married, and lived in rented accommodation. They said they verified her 
income but didnt explain how. SMF added that theyd carried out a credit check before 
lending to Mrs B, but as they specialise in providing credit to people whove previously 
experienced financial difficulty, some level of missed payments on credit wouldnt be a 
reason for them to decline an application.
SMF went on to explain how theyd calculated that the loan was affordable for Mrs B  
saying theyd factored in her credit commitments and split the rent and cost of living amounts 
because she was married. They said the maximum monthly payment they would have 
allowed Mrs B was £375 so the actual repayments of £167 were within her capacity.
Mrs B was unhappy with SMFs response and brought her complaint to our service, where 
one of our investigators looked into it. SMF provided some more information about the 
affordability checks they had done but our investigator upheld the complaint, saying she 
thought SMF hadnt done enough to check that the lending was affordable for Mrs B. 
SMF didnt reply to our investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator  Ill explain below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did SMF carry out proportionate checks?
SMF said they carried out the following checks:
reviewed Mrs Bs credit file; 
used current account turnover analysis and other checks from one of the credit 
reference agencies to verify that Mrs B hadnt overstated her income; and 
used statistical data to estimate Mrs Bs cost of living and hence disposable income. 
SMF added that they then cap this figure depending on various factors and in Mrs Bs 
case it was capped at 25% of her net monthly income, i.e. £375.
Whether or not these checks were proportionate depends on various factors, including the 
size and length of the loan, the cost of credit, and what SMF found. At around 25%, the cost 
of credit was significant, and the term of the loan was five years. So Id expect the checks to 
be thorough.
SMF said they verified Mrs Bs income as £1,500 per month, took her monthly credit 
payments figure of £73 from her credit file and estimated her cost of housing as £394, and 
other cost of living expenditure as £297. They said these estimates were based on data from 
a credit reference agency and assumed Mrs B and her husband shared these costs equally. 
CONC allows a business to use statistical data when it hasnt got reasonable cause to 
suspect the statistical data might not be appropriate. But when SMF looked at Mrs Bs credit 
file, theyd have seen she had defaulted on four accounts and two of these defaults had 
been just four months prior to her application. Shed also missed a payment on a credit card 
six months before her application. SMFs estimates suggested Mrs B had disposable income 
of over £700 per month  but this isnt consistent with someone having recent defaults and 
missed payments on their credit file.
On balance Im not satisfied SMF carried out proportionate checks  in the context of the 
recent defaults I think they should have done more to understand Mrs Bs expenditure.
If SMF had done proportionate checks, what would they have found?
Ive looked at statements for Mrs Bs bank accounts for the three months leading up to her 
application to SMF. Im not saying SMF needed to obtain bank statements as part of their 
lending checks. But in the absence of other information, bank statements provide a good 
indication of Mrs Bs expenditure at the time the lending decision was made.
Looking at these statements, I can see Mrs B was using a significant amount of credit  her 
payments to creditors were much higher than SMF had estimated, averaging around £540 
per month. Mrs B had limited other committed expenditure  she was paying around £160 
per month for TV, phone, internet, and pet insurance, and paying around £200 per month to 
another individual which appears to have been a contribution to rent and bills. On top of this, 
she was spending around £350 per month on food and fuel. So in total, Mrs Bs non-
discretionary and committed expenditure totalled around £1,250.
As SMF found, Mrs B had income of around £1,500 per month. And the monthly repayments 
under their agreement were around £170. So it would be fair to assume Mrs B would have 
monthly disposable income of around £80 after taking out this agreement. Im not satisfied this was enough to cover emergencies and any additional expenses arising from having a 
new vehicle.
In addition, I note Mrs B was often in her overdraft, and used multiple different lenders for 
short-term credit. Its clear she wasnt managing her existing credit repayments in a 
sustainable way, which adds weight to my decision that this new agreement wasnt 
affordable for her. If SMF had done proportionate checks they couldnt have fairly decided to 
lend to Mrs B.  
Putting things right
As I dont think SMF should have approved the loan, I dont think its fair for them to charge 
any interest or other charges under the agreement. But Mrs B has had use of the vehicle for 
over four years and its fair she pays for that use. Mrs B has now paid more than the cash 
price of the car  Im satisfied thats enough to reflect fair usage.
To settle Mrs Bs complaint, SMF should do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay and transfer ownership of the vehicle 
to Mrs B.
Refund all the payments Mrs B has made in excess of £6,000 (the cash price of the 
car), adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Bs credit file regarding the 
agreement.
If SMF consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award they should 
provide Mrs B a certificate showing how much theyve taken off so that Mrs B can reclaim 
that amount, assuming she is eligible to do so.
My final decision
As Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Specialist Motor Finance Limited need to 
take the steps outlined above to settle the matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman