DRN-3218198
The complaint
Mr R and Miss D say that the early repayment charge (ERC) they paid to redeem their 
mortgage with Santander UK Plc was unfair. They say, in summary:
They shouldnt have had to pay an ERC as they had to sell the property as part of a 
court order.
The ERC was excessive and a penalty.
It wasnt based on a reasonable pre-estimate of the loss.
The calculation for the ERC hasnt been disclosed to them.
Santander didnt offer any alternatives, such as a waiver for a temporary extended 
period so one or other of them could have ported the product to avoid the ERC.
What happened
In 2017 Mr R and Miss D applied for a fixed rate mortgage with Santander. The mortgage 
offer was issued in May 2017 and explained that if the mortgage was repaid before 2 August 
2022 an ERC would be applied, to a maximum of £19,599.95. The mortgage completed in 
June 2017.
In May 2020 Mr R and Miss D sold the property and repaid their mortgage. They complained 
about the ERC theyd incurred.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, saying the ERC was set out in the paperwork 
and Santander had calculated it fairly. She said ERCs werent calculated on an individual 
basis and she was satisfied with the information Santander provided about it.
Mr R and Miss D didnt agree, and so it was passed to me to decide.
Mr R and Miss D had asked for a hearing with me so they could provide details and sensitive 
oral submsissions about their circumstances which led to the early redemption of the 
mortgage. They said if the request for a hearing was refused, they reserved the right to 
provide written submissions before the final determination of the complaint.
I emailed Mr R and Miss D on 6 January 2022 explaining I was satisfied a hearing wasnt 
necessary in this case, and offering the opportunity for them to make oral submissions by 
other means. I said that if Mr R and Miss D wanted to make any final submissions then they 
needed to provide those to our investigator by 21 January 2022. Nothing further has been 
provided, despite a reminder from our investigator, and so I now issue this final decision as 
the last stage of our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr R and Miss D wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in 
the way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments 
to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome.
The ERC wasnt a penalty as that has a distinct meaning in law; its a contractual term that 
applies where there is a breach of contract. But when Mr R and Miss Ds mortgage was 
repaid, there was no breach of contract. Thats because the contract allowed for the 
mortgage to be repaid if Mr R and Miss D paid an ERC.
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power under our terms of reference to comment on, or 
otherwise determine, how financial businesses operate in general terms. I have to consider 
this complaint by reference to Mr R and Miss Ds particular situation. When I do that, Im 
satisfied the terms of the ERC were set out in the mortgage offer in a way that should have 
been readily understandable to Mr R and Miss D; certainly, the information about the ERC 
was set out in a manner that met the regulators requirements. So Im persuaded Mr R and 
Miss D knew  or at least should have known  how much theyd have to pay if they repaid 
the mortgage before 2 August 2022.
That said, I need to decide what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of the 
complaint. The rules we operate under say that in doing that I must take into account, 
amongst other things, the relevant rules and regulations. In this case that is the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook 
(MCOB).
MCOB includes provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that an ERC must be able to 
be expressed as a cash value, and must be a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs resulting 
from early termination of the mortgage. But a lender can choose how it calculates an ERC, 
and can calculate the same level of ERC across a group of mortgages of similar type, rather 
than for individual loans. Santander is entitled to set an ERC based not on the actual cost to 
it of Mr R and Miss D ending their own mortgage early, but on a reasonable pre-estimate of 
the costs of early termination of a group of mortgages of similar type.
Lenders generally raise money to offer preferential rates for their mortgage customers on the 
wholesale money markets. Theres a cost to that, and its generally fixed in advance. But the 
lender expects to receive a return to outweigh those costs. If a mortgage ends early, it 
doesnt get back all the returns it expected, and so doesnt make back the costs in raising 
the funds to offer that preferential rate.
Its complex and onerous for lenders to calculate individual losses as and when individual 
customers decide to terminate their contracts early. And it isnt possible to estimate, for any 
given individual, when or if they might do so. So Santander is allowed to project how many 
customers, on average, are likely to terminate early and, on average, at what point theyre 
likely to do so, and to apportion that cost across the mortgages in the group. For some 
individual mortgages that will end up being an over-calculation, and for others it will be an 
under-calculation. But thats allowed; Santander doesnt have to refund the difference, but 
equally it doesnt tell a consumer to pay the difference if it goes the other way.
The ERC is expressed as a cash value in the mortgage offer. So Ive considered whether the 
ERC was a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost of the mortgage being repaid early. 
Santander has provided evidence to show how it pre-estimated the costs of this tranche of 
mortgages being repaid early. Under our rules I am allowed to accept evidence in confidence if it is appropriate to do so. I am satisfied that the information Santander has 
provided is commercially sensitive and I have good reason to accept that in confidence and 
so I wont be disclosing it to Mr R and Miss D.
The information from Santander shows that it takes into account a number of factors when 
estimating the cost of a fixed rate mortgage being repaid. It has provided a breakdown of the 
figures it used and an explanation for the calculations and estimates it has made. It shows 
that the ERC reflects its costs of setting up and servicing the mortgage, the cost of the 
capital it has to set aside, the cost of funding the fixed rate, the cost of financial instruments 
that could be used to protect its position (and unwinding those) and its future losses. Ive 
looked carefully at what Santander has said and I consider it is a fair way to calculate the 
ERC.
Mr R and Miss D have told us they had no option but to sell their house and redeem the 
mortgage due to a court order. Theyve referred to their circumstances as being 
extraordinary. Ive a great deal of sympathy for the position Mr R and Miss D found 
themselves in, but their situation wasnt as unusual as they think. Many customers have to 
sell their homes (some for similar reasons, and others for other equally valid reasons). It 
would be highly unfair for Santander to treat Mr R and Miss D any differently from how it 
would treat any other customer that has to sell their home whilst there is an ERC on their 
mortgage.
I can see from the contact notes that Mr R explored porting the mortgage but that wasnt 
possible. Santander didnt have to offer any other alternative options, such as an extended 
period for them to port the mortgage, and so there was no error by Santander in not 
exploring anything else.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied:
Santander was entitled to charge Mr R and Miss D the ERC set out in their 
mortgage contract when they repaid their mortgage early.
There was no requirement for Santander to only charge an amount worked 
out based on Mr R and Miss Ds individual loan and date of redemption, 
instead it was allowed to charge an amount based on its pre-estimate of the 
costs of early termination of a group of mortgages of similar type.
The calculations provided to us by Santander demonstrate the ERC set out in 
the contract was a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs for that tranche of 
mortgages.
Santander didnt have to treat Mr R and Miss D any differently to any of its 
other customers that redeem their mortgage whilst there is an ERC in force, 
nor did it have to offer them any alternative options.
Mr R and Miss D dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they 
nor Santander will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other 
restrictions a court might impose, Mr R and Miss Ds right to take legal action against 
Santander over the subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our 
consideration of it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Miss D 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman