DRN-4138858
The complaint
Ms S has complained about her motor insurance broker Wesleyan Assurance Society; she 
feels it misled her about the appropriateness of cover, which caused her a financial loss.
What happened
Ms S arranged a multi-car cover via Wesleyan in 2012 for three family vehicles. The policy 
renewed yearly after that until 2021, although one car had been removed from cover in 
2016. In 2021 Ms S noted the cost of cover was high, compared to the market value of the 
remaining cars. She made enquiries, found cover at a lower price for the cars elsewhere (at 
a saving of £641), didnt renew with Wesleyan and complained. 
Wesleyan noted that its team dealing with multi-car policies doesnt have access to its full 
panel of insurers that deal with single car policies. But also that Ms S had never told it that a 
multi-car policy was not suitable for her, in fact she had accepted each renewal. Further that 
it had been providing advice since 2017 about the price of renewal, including that Ms S could 
shop around (in line with regulatory requirements). So it felt it had acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ms S complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator noted that the policy documents presented to Ms S by Wesleyan had 
indicated it was recommending the cover to her. He noted that it had been aware that its 
search of the market for suitable cover had been restricted  but that Ms S hadnt been 
informed of that  not until after she had highlighted her concerns about the cost of cover. 
He concluded that shouldve been made clearer to her earlier, and that, if it had been, shed  
most likely have shopped around in 2016, finding cover at a lower cost, when the number of 
cars requiring cover reduced. Our investigator felt Ms S should be compensated and that a 
fair way to do that would be to express the £641 saving as a percentage of the premium for 
Wesleyans proposed 2021 renewal, and apply that percentage to the premiums for cover 
from 2016 onwards, refunding the corresponding cost amount to Ms S. He said he hadnt 
seen any distress or inconvenience caused to Ms S, so wasnt minded to make a 
compensation award in this respect.
Wesleyan said it did not agree with the findings. It said:
The product sold to Ms S was based on the demands and needs at the time the policy 
was taken out, so the policy was suitable to her. 
In 2016 when one car was removed, Ms S said that she would possibly be looking to add 
another car at a later stage  the advice at the time was to stay on a multi-car policy. 
Ms S never suggested that she wanted to reduce the levels of cover. 
In-line with requirements of the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority, FCA), from 
2017 onwards renewal documents recommended that Ms S shops around. 
There was no overcharging as its not clear that Ms S could have got the cover at a lower 
cost elsewhere or through its own panel available for single car policies. 
There is no evidence that the company Ms S went to in 2021 could have provided the 
same level of premium savings for the previous five years. To base a premium on a 
value taken from a turbulent market in 2021 is not acceptable.
The complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Wesleyan made recommendations to Ms S as to the suitability of the cover 
it had found for her. Im also satisfied that she relied on Wesleyans expertise in this respect. 
I note Wesleyans point about regulatory requirements being adhered to since 2017. And 
that Ms S agreed to each renewal, never telling Wesleyan that she did not want a multi-car 
policy. But I feel that all misses the point that Ms S was relying on Wesleyans expertise to 
recommend what was suitable for her whilst she did not know that even within its own 
business, a wider choice of policies with related premiums, would be available to her if single 
car policies were considered. I think Wesleyan prevented Ms S from making an informed 
choice about her cover. Im satisfied that if she had been aware she would have asked 
Wesleyan to make a wider search for her, and likely looked herself at alternate cover much 
earlier than 2021.
Like our Investigator, Im not minded to think Ms S would have acted differently when the 
policy was first sold to her. At that time she had her previous years cover for two cars (the 
third being obtained around the time the multi-car policy began) to compare the proposed 
costs to. I think she wouldnt have accepted the cover if it had not looked like it would benefit 
her. But by 2016 I think Ms S would likely have lost track of what shed been charged in 
2011 by her previous insurers and she also reduced the number of cars she owned (from 3 
to 2). I think that when the number of cars on cover was reduced, if Wesleyan had told Ms S 
that it was seeking multi-car policies from a restricted panel  where shed have more to 
choose from if she looked at single car policies  shed likely have opted to do so. 
I accept that it cant be known for sure that Ms S could have found cover at a lower cost in 
2016, then up to and including 2020. But she has shown that was the case for 2021. The 
market in 2021 was somewhat disrupted but Ive not seen any evidence from Wesleyan 
demonstrating that the cost of cover fluctuated as a result, such that the price for cover in 
2021 was unusually low compared to that likely available in previous years. I think its 
reasonable to conclude that if Ms S had been fairly informed of the limited nature of 
Wesleyans recommendations, shed have looked for alternate cover and found lower cost 
policies which suited her needs. 
It may well be that the prices which would have been available to Ms S in 2016 through 2020 
wouldnt directly reflect the saving found in 2021. But, in the circumstance, given it isnt 
practically possible, at this stage, for premiums to be recalculated with any degree of 
accuracy over such an extended period, I think its reasonable to use the price difference in 
2021 as the baseline for guiding the redress reasonably due to Ms S. And as the exact cost 
of likely cover isnt known/being used, I wont require Wesleyan to add interest to any 
settlement paid to Ms S. Im satisfied that reflects fair and reasonable redress for the loss 
Ms S likely suffered as a result of Wesleyan not treating her fairly and reasonably when 
arranging her renewal in the period 2016  2020.   
Ive not seen that Ms S was caused distress and/or inconvenience as a result of Wesleyans 
failure to treat her fairly and reasonably. So I wont award any compensation in this respect.
Putting things right
I require Wesleyan to:Express the £641 saving from 2021 as a percentage of the proposed premium for the 
August 2021 renewal (e.g. £641 is 50% of the August 2021 premium).
Apply this percentage to each annual premium, going back to, and including, the 2016
renewal, and refund to Ms S each cost figure generated (e.g. 50% of the 2016 premium 
is £x, with £x being refunded to Ms S). 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Wesleyan Assurance Society to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman