DRN-3780977
The complaint
Mr G complains Monzo Bank Ltd registered a fraud marker at CIFAS, the national fraud
database. He doesnt think its treated him fairly.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 19 October 2022, inviting both parties 
to let me have any further evidence or comments by 2 November 2022, before I finalised 
things. I have set out a copy of my provisional decision below. 
What happened
Mr G held an account with Monzo. On 20 February 2021, his account was credited with
£500. Shortly afterwards £450 of that was transferred to a third party who I shall call M. On
24 February the account received a further £500. £610 was transferred to M again. On 26
February the payment made into Mr Gs account on 20 February was identified as fraudulent
- the bank from which the funds had come told Monzo their customer had been the victim of
a scam. Monzo blocked the account and Mr G contacted Monzo about this.
Following a review, Monzo told Mr G that it would be closing his account. Mr G later 
discovered Monzo had also placed a misuse of facility marker against him with
CIFAS which was preventing him from opening an account. He contacted Monzo to
complain, but it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said, it had placed the marker in
line with its internal policies and regulatory obligations. Unhappy, Mr G referred his complaint
to us.
An adjudicator considered the complaint, she asked Mr G for some information. In summary
Mr G said:
- He did not know the person who transferred the funds to his account.
- He couldnt remember anyone called M.
- He had in the past shared his account number and sort code with family and friends.
- But he had never shared his mobile app details on his Monzo account.
- Only he had access to his phone and mobile banking app.
Having considered the complaint, the adjudicator was satisfied Monzo was entitled to record
the marker because it had received a report of fraud from another bank. And looking at the
available evidence, the adjudicator couldnt see how funds could have been paid and
removed without Mr Gs involvement. She also didnt think Monzo had made a mistake in
closing the account.
Mr G didnt accept the adjudicators conclusions and asked for an ombudsman to review his
complaint. So, the case was passed to me. During the review, I asked the adjudicator to
speak with Mr G again about the activity on his account that had led to the loading with
CIFAS and the withdrawal of banking facilities.
Mr G told us that he needed help financially and asked a friend to assist him. I shall refer to
his friend as P. But he said P didnt have money so P asked another friend to help him. So,
he thought the money paid in was from Ps friend. Our adjudicator pointed out that the
fraudulent payment was from a female rather than a male (as was another payment
matching the same surname). She asked Mr G for the name of Ps friend, but Mr G said he
didnt know.
Our adjudicator then asked Mr G if hed made payments to M from the money hed received.
He said he had transferred funds to M, because M was a friend who he owed money to. Our
adjudicator asked Mr G if he could provide evidence to support what he was telling her. Mr G
said hed respond later that day or the next morning if he found anything. Mr G didnt
respond.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Monzo has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr G is guilty of fraud or a financial
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The
relevant guidance says:
- There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has
been committed or attempted; [and]
- The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently
report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds
have entered Mr Gs account, whether they are retained or pass through the account.
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that Mr G was deliberately
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate
payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account to receive an
illegitimate payment. But a marker should not be registered against someone who was
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. To meet the standard of
proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out checks of sufficient depth
and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the account holder the
opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand their level of
knowledge and intention.
Monzo received a report from the third-party bank that an incoming payment was from a
fraud. And while Monzo dont appear to have asked Mr G for more information about what
he knew, this isnt the end of the matter. As there are further considerations. In order to
determine Mr Gs complaint, I need to consider whether I think having regard for what we
know now that theres enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered the account and
that Mr Gs actions suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find
that Monzo is justified in recording the fraud marker here. Id like to explain why in a little
more detail.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Gs
account did so because of fraudulent activity. I have seen the report from the sending bank
about the payment made on 20 February. Mr G says he has no knowledge of this or the
second payment on 24 February either. So, the only matter which remains in dispute here is
whether Mr G was complicit in allowing his account to receive illegitimate payments.Mr G says he doesnt know anything about the two payments into his account, including the
one that was flagged as fraudulent by the third-party bank. But he says he had been
expecting funds from a friend of a friend and assumed these related to that. Ive thought
about Mr Gs testimony but I dont find it very plausible. I say this because, Ive reviewed Mr
Gs mobile banking records that show the date and times his banking app was accessed.
And I can see from these that his account was accessed not just on the days when both
payments came in but in-between too. Monzos evidence also shows that only one mobile
device was registered to his banking app  which matched Mr Gs. Mr G has said no one
had access to his app or phone so based on this I think its more likely that it was him
viewing the account. Particularly, as the records show the use of a thumb print that had been
used by Mr G before. Given the occasions and periods over which the account was
accessed, Im satisfied Mr G was aware of the incoming payments and as such, he also
knew these came from two females and not a friend of his friend. However, theres no
evidence of him querying this.
Following receipt of the fraudulent payment on 20 February, funds were paid out relatively
quickly. Mr G says he did this because he needed to pay M back. But I dont find Mr Gs
version of events persuasive. Ive listened to a call that took place in September between our
adjudicator and him and when hes given Ms name, he says he cant remember anyone with
that name. Ive thought about this within the context of what G has told us more recently and
if what he suggests is true, I would have reasonably expected him to remember M (tell our
adjudicator) and reference the fact that Ps friend was also sending him some around this
time, which hed be using to pay M back. But none of these details are mentioned in the
conversation. Also, of note is the fact that theres no other evidence to corroborate the
arrangements Mr G has described involving him, P, Ps friend, and M.
Considering everything, I think its more likely Mr G had knowledge of the fraudulent funds
that credited and later debited his account. While Ive thought carefully about what hes said,
the available evidence suggests its more likely than not he was complicit in receiving
fraudulent payments in his account.
Of course, Monzo should have asked further questions as per CIFASs guidance to its
members. But Im satisfied from looking at the evidence that if in possession of this
information, Monzo would have still recorded the marker and was therefore reasonably
justified in loading it. It follows that my provisional conclusions are that I dont think its
treated Mr G unfairly and so theres no basis for asking it to remove the marker.
Im also satisfied Monzo closed Mr Gs account in line with its terms and conditions given the
account activity and level of awareness. So, I provisionally find it made no mistake here
either.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Monzo responded to say that it didnt have anything further to add. Mr G responded on 25 
October. He said hed been the innocent victim of a fraud and hed provide screen shots of 
messages from P. These would show Ps friend was genuinely loaning him £500 so that 
when the funds credited his account thats what he understood they were for. Mr G asked 
that we wait two days for him to provide evidence. 
The deadline for my provisional decision expired on 2 November 2022. No further 
information or evidence was submitted.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr Gs comments, but he hasnt provided any of the supporting evidence that hes 
alluded to and the deadline for my provisional decision which extended beyond the two days 
he said hed need has now passed. I also note that the adjudicator had also asked Mr G for 
supporting evidence before I issued my provisional decision. But none was forthcoming. 
Also, as I said in my provisional decision, I would have reasonably expected Mr G to 
reference the details hes told us about in his initial call with our adjudicator but he didnt. In 
the circumstances, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision which I fully adopt 
as part of this final decision. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely Mr G had knowledge of the fraudulent funds 
that credited and later debited his account. I explained in my provisional decision why the 
available evidence suggests its more likely than not he was complicit in receiving fraudulent 
payments in his account.
I think if in possession of the information referenced in my review, Monzo would have still 
recorded the marker and was therefore reasonably justified in loading it. It follows that I dont 
think Monzo has treated Mr G unfairly and so theres no basis for asking it to remove the 
marker. Im also satisfied Monzo closed Mr Gs account in line with its terms and conditions 
given the account activity and level of his awareness. So, I find it made no mistake here 
either.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman