DRN-1340445
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly valued his car when it settled his 
car insurance claim.
What happened
Mr T had a car accident involving several parties. A third party was found to be at fault and, 
as his insurer, UKI decided that Mr Ts car was beyond economical repair. UKI said Mr Ts 
car was worth £2,470. 
Mr T complained to UKI. He says his car is rare and the settlement figure offered wouldnt 
be enough to buy a similar car  which he says UKI agreed was the case during a 
telephone call. Mr T says his car didnt have any pre-existing damage and disagrees with 
the description in the valuation, which recorded the condition of the car as fair. 
Mr T says hed incur additional costs in order to purchase a similar car. Hed have to pay for 
travel and to transfer his private number plate to his new car. Mr T wants UKI to pay for 
these additional costs as well as the added cost of purchasing a similar car.
UKI says it used a market leading valuation guide as a basis for the settlement offer it 
made. UKI says the valuation was adjusted to account for things like the mileage and 
condition of the car. 
After this service looked into things, our investigator concluded that UKI had acted fairly. 
The investigator thought UKIs settlement figure was in line with the values provided by 
relevant valuation guides and that it had acted in accordance with the terms of Mr Ts motor 
policy. The investigator said that the other costs Mr T wants UKI to pay arent covered by 
his policy.
Mr T disagreed and felt hed been left in a worse off position even though he wasnt to 
blame for the accident. He says UKI shouldve represented his interests in claiming against 
the third party and that the sum offered doesnt take in to account the real-world market 
value of his car. Mr T also questioned UKIs independence as some of the other parties 
were also insured by UKI. Mr T added that his claim is against the third party, so the cover 
offered under his own policy is irrelevant. 
As he didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive also concluded that UKI has acted fairly and Ill explain why.
I appreciate Mr T has queried why the terms of his policy are relevant given that the claim is 
against the third party. However, Mr T hasnt claimed directly from the third party, hes 
claimed on his own policy. That means UKI will settle his claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of his policy. 
The terms of Mr Ts policy say that if his car is damaged, UKI will pay to repair or replace 
the car up to its UK market value and this will be based on the value of the vehicle at the 
time of the claim. The terms define market value as the cost of replacing your car with 
another of the same make and model and of a similar age and condition at the time of the 
accident or loss. Under the terms, UKI is entitled to decide how to settle the claim. 
My role isnt to value Mr Ts car, but to consider whether the valuation UKI has reached is 
fair. This service generally considers the fairest approach for an insurer to take when 
determining a valuation is to consider the relevant motor trade guides. These are based on 
extensive national research of likely selling prices and provide valuations based on the 
make, model, age, condition and specification of a car. This service generally finds these 
trade guides to be more persuasive than other sources, such as adverts that dont take into 
account a margin for negotiation from the advertised price.
UKI says it used three different guides to determine its valuation. It also says it sent the 
valuation to one of the trade guide bodies who confirmed the valuation was accurate. Ive 
checked relevant trade guides and can see that the market valuation for Mr Ts car is 
around £2,000 to £2,500. UKI has offered a settlement figure within this range, so I think 
the valuation is fair.
I acknowledge what Mr T says  that he wont be able to purchase an equivalent car with 
this amount and that it doesnt reflect the real-world market value of his car. However, when 
a car is being sold, theres usually a margin applied in the advertised price for profit or 
negotiation. So the advertised price of the car is normally higher than the retail value. And 
the guides are based on likely selling prices. So, I remain satisfied that UKIs offer is fair. 
Mr T says the condition of his car wasnt fairly reflected in the valuation  he says it 
shouldve been recorded as exceptional rather than fair. Looking at the valuation, I cant 
see that theres been a deduction in the market value because the condition was recorded 
as fair. So there isnt anything I can ask UKI to do in relation to this as it wouldnt make a 
difference to the valuation.
Additional points
Mr T says hell incur additional costs as part of purchasing a replacement car and he wants 
UKI to over these costs. But the terms of his policy say that indirect losses arent covered. 
And UKI only has to pay up to the market value of the car. So I cant say that UKI has acted 
unfairly by not covering these costs. 
Mr T thinks UKI has a conflict of interest because other parties involved in the accident 
have a motor policy with UKI. I cant comment on third-party insurance policies  my role is 
to look at the individual circumstances of this complaint and decide whether Mr T has been 
treated unfairly. Ive looked in to whats happened and I havent seen anything that 
suggests that UKI didnt handle Mr Ts claim in a fair and reasonable manner. 
In summary, I think the valuation figure UKI has arrived at is fair in the circumstances and I 
wont be asking it to do anything more in relation to this claimMy final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020. 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman