DRN-2926483
The complaint
Mrs C complains about Santander UK Plc and their decision to default her loan account.
What happened
Mrs C took out a personal loan with Santander in 2018. She increased this loan in 2019 and 
agreed to a monthly repayment of £266.50. Mrs C maintained these monthly payments until 
February 2020, when her personal circumstances changed.
Mrs C called Santander and explained shed gone on maternity leave due to an unexpected 
pregnancy. So, her personal income had halved, and she was unable to meet the monthly 
payments until she returned to work in November of that year.
Santander continued to take the monthly payment by direct debit in March 2020. So, Mrs C 
called again to explain she was unable to afford this. Santander agreed to refund the 
£266.50, and Mrs C agreed to be placed on a token payment arranged where shed need to 
pay at least £1 to the loan every 30 days. Santander explained that her account would 
accrue arrears and this would be reported to her credit file. But, they told Mrs C theyd be 
able to arrange a repayment plan once Mrs C returned to work to begin to clear this.
Santander also offered Mrs C to option of another repayment plan, where shed be required 
to meet the agreed monthly repayment plus an extra payment towards the arrears after a 
few months. But they didnt think this option was viable due to Mrs Cs income and 
expenditure, which showed she was in a deficit due to other outstanding credit. Mrs C 
agreed, and the token payment plan was put in place.
The next month, Mrs C mistakenly paid her token payment to her closed credit card account, 
rather than her loan. She rectified this mistake with Santander in May 2020, and the token 
payment plan was re-instated. But Santander again explained arrears would accrue on the 
account, and default notices may be sent. But they told Mrs C to continue with the 
arrangement and the arrears could be sorted when Mrs C returned to work.
In August, Santander issued a default notice to Mrs C. She called Santander to discuss this 
and whether she needed to pay the whole amount immediately, as the letter suggested. 
Santander told Mrs C this wasnt required and that a repayment plan could be put in place 
when she returned to work. But they explained the default would be in place for six years. 
And in September, the account was defaulted and recorded against Mrs Cs credit file. And 
the debt was passed to a third-party collection agency. Mrs C was unhappy with this, so she 
raised a complaint.
Mrs C didnt think Santander had made it reasonably clear to her how the default would 
impact her credit file and access to future credit. She said shed entered into the token 
payment arrangement in good faith, to make Santander aware she intended to resume full 
monthly payments as soon as she was able. And she said if Santander had explained what 
the token payment arrangement would lead to, shed have explored other options of 
maintaining full payments. So, she wanted the default removed from her credit file.
Santander didnt agree. They thought theyd made it reasonably clear to Mrs C that arrears 
would build on her account when she agreed to the token payment plan. And as Mrs C 
hadnt began to clear these, they thought they were fair to default the account after sending 
the notice as they were required to do. So, they thought theyd acted reasonably, within their 
obligations, by reporting this default to Mrs Cs credit file and didnt think they needed to do 
anything more. Mrs C remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint 
to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She recognised arrears were 
building on Mrs Cs account as shed entered into a token payment arrangement. And she 
agreed Santander had acted positively and sympathetically to Mr Cs situation by offering the 
arrangement to begin with. But, crucially, she didnt think Santander had made it reasonably 
clear to Mrs C the impact a default would have on her credit file. She thought Santander had 
downplayed the significance of this in the calls with Mrs C. And she recognised the upset 
this wouldve caused Mrs C, when she discovered her loan had been terminated and debt 
passed to a third-party company. So, she thought Santander should pay Mrs C £150 for this 
upset. And she thought Santander should remove any negative information from Mrs Cs 
credit file that related to the loan account.
Santander didnt agree. They thought theyd defaulted the account fairly as arrears were 
continuing to build on the account and theyd followed the correct default process. They 
didnt agree theyd failed to explain the default clearly and thought Mrs C had the option to 
request clarity on what a default meant and didnt think she did so. They explained had a 
duty to accurately report the way Mrs C maintained the account to her credit file. So, they 
didnt think theyd done anything wrong and didnt think they needed to do anything more. As 
Santander didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I e-mailed both Mrs C and Santander on 3 September 2021, explaining my intention to 
uphold the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. But I explained I 
intended to direct a different outcome. I thought Mrs C was reasonably aware her account 
would accrue arrears when she entered into the token payment arrangement. So, I thought 
Santander had acted fairly when reporting this to Mrs Cs credit file. But I agreed with our 
investigator that Santander hadnt explained clearly what impact the default would have on 
Mrs Cs credit file. So, I thought the default should be removed from Mrs Cs credit file. And I 
thought Santander should pay Mrs C £150 to recognise the upset she was caused when she 
discovered her loan had been terminated and debt passed to a third-party debt collection 
company as I thought Santander had led Mrs C to believe theyd agree a repayment plan for 
the arrears when she returned to work.
Santander responded and agreed to outcome I proposed. But Mrs C responded to this e-
mail explaining she wouldnt have entered into the token payment arrangement had she 
been aware of the default process and what this would mean. So, she thought all the 
negative information on her credit file relating to the account should be removed. As Mrs C 
didnt completely agree with the outcome I proposed, Ive continued to issue a final decision 
on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.I explained in my e-mail to Mrs C and Santander on 3 September 2021 that I thought 
Santander hadnt done enough to explain the default process to Mrs C, and what this would 
mean for her credit file. And I recognised this upset this caused Mrs C. Both Santander and 
Mrs C have accepted this, so I dont intend to discuss this any further. Instead, Ive focused 
on the main area of dispute, which surrounds the actions I think Santander need to take to 
put things right.
Putting things right
Any directions I make are intended to place Mrs C back in the position she wouldve been in, 
had Santander acted fairly in the first instance. So, in this case, I dont think Santander fairly 
explained the default process and the impact of this to Mrs C. And by not doing so, they 
prevented Mrs C from having the opportunity to prevent a default being applied to her 
account.
Although Im unable to say that Mrs C wouldve been able to prevent the default considering 
her financial situation at the time, I think she shouldve been given the opportunity to explore 
any alternative options she had to prevent this. So, I dont think the default was applied fairly 
and to address this, I think this should be removed from Mrs Cs credit file.
And I do think having a default applied to her account wouldve been upsetting for Mrs C, as 
she was taking proactive steps to manage her existing debt while her income had lowered in 
order to prevent any impact on her credit file. And I recognise the worry Mrs C wouldve felt 
at not being able to obtain future credit, as well as dealing with third party debt collection 
agents. So, I think Santander should pay Mrs C £150 to recognise this.
But Im aware Mrs C thinks any negative information reported to her credit file for the loan 
should be removed. And she thinks this as she believes Santander failed to make it clear to 
her that the arrears would impact her credit file.
Ive thought about this at length. And Ive listened in detail to the calls Mrs C held with 
Santander, when she initially discussed the token fee arrangement. In these calls, I think 
Santander make it reasonably clear that arrears would accrue on the account. Although 
Santander didnt specifically state these arrears would be reported to Mrs Cs credit file, they 
did ask at the end of the call whether Mrs C had any further questions. If Mrs C was unsure 
about this, I think she had the opportunity to ask at this stage. But I dont think she did.
Santander have a responsibility to accurately report the way Mrs C managed her account as 
this information helps provide future lenders with a way to calculate any risk in future 
lending. And in this situation, Mrs Cs account was accruing arrears as she wasnt able to 
meet the monthly payments. So, I dont think Santander acted unfairly when reporting this 
information, and I think Id be placing Mrs C in a position of betterment if I directed 
Santander to remove this information. And this is something Im unable to do.
Im aware Mrs C feels shed have looked to maintain the monthly payments if she was aware 
her credit file would be affected. But I dont think its likely this wouldve been the case. This 
is because on the calls Mrs C held with Santander, it was confirmed that Mrs Cs income 
was in a deficit compared to her expenditure, due to the lowering of her wages while she 
was on maternity leave. And it was also confirmed that Mrs C had entered into other 
payment arrangements with other creditors. So, on the balance of probability, I think its most 
likely that Mrs C wouldve continued with the token fee arrangement. So, I dont think Mrs 
Cs comments change my overall decision. 
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint about Santander UK Plc and 
direct them to take the following action:
Remove the default from Mrs Cs credit file; and
Pay Mrs C £150 to recognise the upset shes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman