DRN-2221789
The complaint
Mr O complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly closed a number of his accounts.
What happened
Mr O went to a Nationwide branch in May 2020. An incident took place where Nationwide 
didnt think Mr Os behaviour was appropriate so they decided to end their relationship with 
him by closing his accounts.
Mr O didnt think hed been inappropriate in the branch and felt it was unfair for Nationwide 
to close his accounts. He complained to Nationwide but they didnt change their decision. 
Mr O then brought the complaint to our service for an independent review. 
The investigator considered what both sides had said and concluded it was most likely Mr O 
had behaved inappropriately. So they thought it had been reasonable for Nationwide to close 
Mr Os accounts.
Mr O maintained his behaviour was appropriate and that staff are lying about what 
happened. The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr O that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
This pandemic has presented huge challenges for everyone; for businesses in how they try
to continue to offer their services and for their customers in how theyve had to adjust their
everyday lives. Ive kept this in mind when coming to my decision as these are
unprecedented times for everyone. 
The incident on 5 May 2020
On 5 May 2020 Mr O went to a Nationwide branch to withdraw a small amount of money
- around £18. He says hed been told previously by Nationwide to reduce his visits to branch 
due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Mr O said he considered his visits - approximately 
five times a month - to be for essential reasons.
Nationwide have said that Mr O wanted to make a withdrawal using his passbook and had 
also been in the previous day. They say hed been told a number of times previously that he 
should limit non-essential visits to the branch due to COVID-19. 
Nationwide say Mr O began to shout and behave aggressively, including saying: I havent 
got the virus, youre blowing this whole thing out of proportion, you have screens to protect 
you and spat at one of their advisers but he was still allowed into branch where he 
continued to shout. 
Its not entirely clear what happened on 5 May when Mr O arrived at the branch. I say this 
because although Nationwide have provided copies of their internal investigation into what 
happened, no CCTV or independent witness statements have been provided. There are also 
conflicting versions of events in Mr Os testimony. For example in one recollection he says 
there was no spitting incident, but in another he says a small amount may have landed on 
the adviser, but that it wasnt deliberate and staff are lying about what happened.
The alleged spitting incident may or may not have been accidental  again, theres no 
independent witness statements or CCTV footage of it. 
Mr O strongly denies it being intentional, but whether accidental or not, both parties have 
acknowledged that some saliva did end up on the Nationwide advisers clothing. I find Mr Os 
theory that the adviser spat on her own clothes to not be plausible, particularly as he said 
(when describing the incident) in a letter to Nationwide dated 1 June 2020; when a small 
amount of saliva fell from my mouth and fell mostly on the ground. I told staff twice that it 
was not deliberate. Very little if any fell on the member of staff.  
Ive also kept in mind that it wasnt just the alleged spitting incident that Nationwide felt was 
inappropriate behaviour. In their investigation into the incident, theyve said that Mr O started 
to shout at the adviser and behave in an aggressive manner.. and .continued to rant and 
shout whilst in the branch. Ive also kept in mind that the staff member felt strongly enough 
about what had happened to report the incident to senior management and the police. 
Overall, I think its more likely than not that something happened between Mr O and the 
Nationwide advisers in branch on 5 May that they fairly interpreted as threatening or abusive 
behaviour towards them. 
I also think that Nationwide have acted fairly, reasonably and within the terms of their 
banking relationship by choosing to close his accounts because of this. Its important to point 
out that the accounts werent ultimately closed because of the frequency of Mr Os visits, but 
because of his behaviour towards Nationwide staff. 
 
I know Mr O will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute with Nationwide  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman