DRN-1736760
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs T, who are represented by a third party, complained about the sale of a regular 
premium mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold by Santander UK Plc 
(Santander), then trading as National and Provincial Building Society, when they took out a 
mortgage in August 1992.
Background
From what we know, it looks like the policy Mr and Mrs T took out provided them both with 
cover. They say they were told they had to buy the cover even though they didnt need it. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this case and provided Mr and Mrs T with a view that 
the complaint shouldnt be upheld. But Mr and Mrs T have disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when deciding this 
case.
Having done this, Im not upholding this complaint.
These events are from a long time ago so its understandable we no longer have access to 
all the paperwork from the sale. Its also possible  and indeed understandable  that 
Mr and Mrs T may not be able to fully remember everything that was said during a meeting 
that happened so long ago. But Santander has accepted that it wouldve probably advised 
Mr and Mrs T to take out the PPI policy. This means it had a duty to make sure it was 
suitable for their needs at that time. Santander also needed to ensure that the information it 
gave them was clear enough so they could make an informed choice about taking out the 
cover.
I think it's likely that Santander made it clear that Mr and Mrs T didnt have to take out the 
PPI and that they chose to take it out  although I can understand why they may not 
remember this. Mr and Mrs T say they were made to think they had to take out the cover to 
get their mortgage. I cant know precisely what was said to them at the time of the sale, so I 
am making my finding based on what I think is most likely to have happened. 
Its unfortunate that the actual sale documentation is no longer available, although itss not 
surprising considering these events happened almost 28 years ago. So Ive relied on what 
Mr and Mrs T and Santander have told us plus what I already know about Santanders sales 
process for this type of policy at the time. Having taken all this into account I think its more 
likely than not that Mr and Mrs T would have known they had a choice about whether to buy 
the policy and decided to go ahead and buy it. Ive looked very carefully over what Mr and Mrs T has told us about their situation when the 
PPI was taken out. I think they were eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the 
major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. I also think the policy was comparable in 
cost to similar ones I know were available at the time.
Mr and Mrs T both say they had employer benefits of 6 months at full pay followed by 6 
months at half pay and so they didnt need this type of cover. I do understand why Mr and 
Mrs T have told us about this, but Im afraid it doesnt necessarily mean the policy was 
unsuitable.
I think the mortgage wouldve been a big and long-term financial commitment and the 
consequences of not being able to keep up payments on it couldve had serious implications. 
If successfully claimed on, the policy would have paid a monthly benefit to help with the 
mortgage, for up to 24 months. This period is much longer than the sick pay Mr and Mrs T 
said they had with their jobs. So taking all of this into account, I think the policy was of use 
and I think it was suitable.
Mr and Mrs T told us they had some additional insurance cover they couldve relied on if 
necessary. Our adjudicator asked for details about this but neither Mr and Mrs T nor their 
representative have come back to us with any information. So its not something Im able to 
take into account.
Santander also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. Obviously 
I cant say Santander provided all the information it shouldve. But from what I know the cost 
of the cover was separate from the mortgage repayments and so I think Mr and Mrs T 
wouldve known how much it was costing. 
It follows that, whilst Im sorry to have to disappoint Mr and Mrs T, I am not upholding this 
complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint so Santander UK Plc doesnt have to pay any compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman