DRN-4007348
The complaint
Mr M complains about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltds (Accredited) decision to decline 
his claim under his car insurance policy. 
Accredited are the insurers of Mr Ms policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of an 
agent. As Accredited have accepted they are accountable for the actions of the agent, any 
reference to Accredited includes the actions of the agent. 
What happened
Mr Ms van was broken into, and his spare car key was stolen. Mr M called Accredited to 
report this and asked if he could get his car locks changed. Mr M says Accredited agreed 
and also explained he could cancel the claim if he decided to get it done privately. Mr M 
says, around two weeks later, and while he was waiting for Accredited to contact him about 
changing the locks, his car was stolen. Mr M reported this to Accredited but they explained, 
when Mr M first called to report the theft of his car key, he shouldve been informed this 
wasnt covered under his policy. Accredited said their separate Key cover provides cover 
for a replacement key and lock changes, but Mr Ms policy didnt have this. Accredited 
apologised for any confusion caused but explained they werent under any obligation to take 
any further action at the time of the first call. Accredited explained they declined the claim for 
the theft of Mr Ms car as he hadnt taken reasonable steps to adequately safeguard his car 
between the date his car key was stolen to the date his car was stolen. 
Mr M complained about Accrediteds decision as he claimed his car was stolen while he was 
waiting for them to change the car locks. Accredited responded and again apologised they 
didnt inform Mr M, during the first call, that he didnt have a policy for key cover. Accredited 
explained, during this call however, when the call handler discussed Mr Ms excess, Mr M 
confirmed he wanted to put any claim on hold while he obtained quotes to get the car locks 
changed privately. Accredited said, they then didnt hear back from Mr M until he reported 
his car stolen. 
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Mr M and Accredited on 26 February 2023. In my provisional decision I said as follows:  
    
My starting point is Mr Ms car insurance policy booklet. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and under the heading General conditions and sub-heading Taking care 
of your car it says, You or any insured driver must take all reasonable steps 
to:protect your car from loss or damage. Accredited say its Mr Ms responsibility 
to take steps to ensure his car is protected from any loss and damage  and in this 
case that meant changing his car locks as his key had been stolen. So, Ive looked to 
see whether their decision is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
The main area of dispute relates to what was agreed during the first call. Accredited 
accept their call handler didnt explain to Mr M that he didnt have cover to replace his 
key or to change his car locks. But the dispute here relates to what was agreed in 
relation to the next steps, in particular, whether Accredited would start dealing with 
the claim or whether Mr M would first find out about changing the locks privately. Ive 
listened to this call and Mr M explains his car key has been stolen from his van and 
this was then used to break into his car also. He says his car key has been taken so 
Ill probably need the locks changing in case they come back. The call handler 
explains hell take details and will pass the matter through to a team that will decide 
how to proceed with the claim. The call handler then gives Mr M the claim reference 
number. 
Theres then a discussion about the excess and the call handler explains its £300. 
Mr M then says, Is it worth me checking how much the cost of this is without going 
through insurance rather than paying £300 excess? The call handler replies 
possibly and explains how this would be treated as a fault claim and the impact 
on renewal. The call handler says, It could potentially be worth you having a look 
elsewhere to see if you could do it privately and Mr M says Right ok, erm ok yeah, 
no problem, Ill have to have a look, erm, I didnt realise it was going to be that much. 
I didnt think I was going to have to pay the full £300 excess for this. Mr M then says 
Right ok, so how long, I mean, would that only be against me if I followed through 
with it completely, or is that following through with it from this call? The call handler 
explains, if Mr M follows through with the claim completely, then it would be recorded 
as a fault claim. The call handler explains if Mr M was to only inform Accredited of the 
incident, then it would be recorded for information purposes only. Mr M then says 
Right, so even if you carry on with it from today but I can get prices and stuff and 
then I decide against it, I can still cancel the claim? The call handler confirms thats 
the case as long as Mr M cancels the claim before Accredited start paying things out. 
Mr M then asks How long would I be waiting for the decision on this? The call 
handler explains usually within 24 to 48 hours The call handler then says Ill get 
this all marked up just now for you and well be in contact shortly there for you.        
Accredited say that, during the first call, Mr M mentioned on two occasions that, 
rather than making a claim against the policy at that time, he would prefer to get 
some quotes to replace the car locks privately. Accredited say Mr M then asked the 
call handler if he could cancel the claim and the call handler explained he could. 
They also refer to Mr M asking how long he would be waiting for a decision, and he is 
informed it would be 24 to 48 hours. Accredited say its clear Mr M was firstly going to 
place the claim on hold while he got quotes. 
They say they were therefore waiting for Mr M to come back to them to let them know 
if he wanted to proceed with the claim or whether to go ahead with his own private 
quotes which he was going to obtain. Accredited say, if Mr M had got back in contact 
to say he wanted to proceed with the claim, it would then have taken 24 to 48 hours 
to tell Mr M if the claim was accepted or not. Accredited say, the next time they heard 
from Mr M it was to report his car stolen. On the other hand, Mr M says, at no point 
during the call, did he ask Accredited to cancel the claim and his understanding was 
that Accredited would be coming back to him with a decision on his claim. 
Ive carefully considered both parties accounts and their understanding of what was 
agreed during the call. Having listened to the call, I disagree with a number of points 
made by Accredited. Firstly, I dont agree that Mr M, at any point, explicitly says he 
would rather obtain quotes himself privately than make a claim on the policy. I say 
this based on the sequence in which things are explained and agreed during the call. 
The call handler explains theyll pass the claim through to a handler who deals with 
theft claims and theyll probably contact Mr M if they have any questions. The call 
handler then gives Mr M a claim reference number. So, at this point its reasonable 
for Mr M to think a claim has been set up. A discussion then takes place about the excess, and I agree Mr M is clearly mindful 
of the cost of this. Mr M does then appear to lean towards obtaining his own quotes 
when he says, Right ok, erm ok yeah, no problem, Ill have to have a look, erm, I 
didnt realise it was going to be that much  But theres two points here which 
persuade me that Mr M was still, understandably, expecting his claim to be taken 
forward. Firstly, knowing that a claim has been set up on Accrediteds system, he 
doesnt at any point ask them to place it on hold. Secondly, its clear Mr M is 
concerned about how far into the process hes able to go before it gets recorded as a 
fault claim, and the excess becomes payable. And when Mr M is told the fault claim 
only gets recorded if he continues with the claim completely, its his next comment 
which I find particularly persuasive when deciding what I think has been agreed here. 
Mr M says, Right, so even if you carry on with it from today but I can get prices and 
stuff and then I decide against it, I can still cancel the claim? Im persuaded by Mr 
Ms testimony that he wanted Accredited to continue with the claim and he would 
decide whether to obtain quotes knowing that he can still cancel the claim. 
And I think Mr M became further reassured about continuing his claim when the call 
handler confirms Mr M can cancel the claim up until they start paying things out. I 
think its also important to make reference to Mr Ms next comment which is, How 
long would I be waiting for the decision on this? I think this suggests Mr M wants 
Accredited to continue with the claim and hes now asking how long it will take for 
them to make a decision. I note Accredited believe the call handlers response to this 
question was on the understanding that when Mr M returns and confirms he wants 
them to proceed, then it would take 24 to 48 hours. But I dont believe thats the case 
here because neither Mr M, when asking his question, or Accredited, when 
answering the question, qualify their comment by saying if   Mr M decides to proceed 
with the claim. And I think that was because both were of the understanding that Mr 
M was asking Accredited to pursue his claim and not placing it on hold while he 
decides whether to obtain his own quotes privately. 
The call handlers comment at the end of the call further persuades me that the 
understanding and agreement between Mr M and the call handler was that 
Accredited would be taking the claim forward. The call handler says, Ill get this all 
marked up just now for you and well be in contact shortly there for you. I think, in 
the proverbial sense, this places the ball firmly in Accrediteds court because the call 
handler, in saying this, implies the next steps will be taken by Accredited and will 
involve them contacting Mr M. If the understanding here, on the part of the call 
handler, was that the responsibility rests with Mr M to get back in touch with 
Accredited to confirm whether he wants to proceed with the claim, then I dont see 
why the call handler wouldve ended the call by making the comment they did. 
Ive also thought about Mr Ms own actions here and what I believe, on the balance of 
probabilities, this shows. During the call, Mr M explains he has bought a steering lock 
to protect his car until the locks are changed. I think this demonstrates Mr M promptly 
taking all reasonable steps to protect his car. So, had the understanding between Mr 
M and the call handler been that the claim should be placed on hold while Mr M 
obtains quotes privately, I dont believe Mr M wouldve left it two weeks without taking 
any steps to get his car locks changed. Mr M buying a steering lock the same day he 
realised his car had been broken into shows that he didnt want to delay taking any 
steps to protect his car. So, I believe its more likely than not, the fact that he didnt 
take any steps to change his car locks after the call, shows that he was fully 
expecting to hear back from Accredited with an outcome to his claim. And given what 
Ive said above, I believe that Mr Ms expectation in this respect was understandable 
and reasonable in the circumstances. Taking this all into account, I intend to ask Accredited to reconsider Mr Ms claim for 
the theft of his car. I acknowledge that Mr Ms policy didnt cover him for a change of 
locks but, during the first call, Mr M is given a clear impression that he can make a 
claim for a change of locks. Following this, and at no point prior to Mr Ms car being 
stolen, is this information corrected. So, while the policy might not cover a change of 
locks, I think it was understandable for Mr M to rely on what he was being told during 
the first call. And, given that Ive explained why I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Mr M to believe Accredited were dealing with his claim, I understand why he didnt 
take any action to change his car locks. On this basis, I dont think its fair for 
Accredited to decline Mr Ms claim on the basis that he failed to take reasonable 
steps to or adequately safeguard his car from the time his key was stolen to the date 
his car was stolen. I can see the error has had an impact on Mr M  hes been left 
upset, worried and frustrated by Accredited declining his claim on the grounds they 
have. So, Accredited should also pay £200 compensation to Mr M.   
So, subject to any further comments from Mr M or Accredited, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint and require Accredited to reconsider the claim 
and pay compensation.   
Following my provisional decision, both parties have confirmed they accept the decision. 
Given that both parties have responded, I see no reason to delay making a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with both parties accepting the decision, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional decision. So, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in 
my provisional decision and copied above.
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Accredited declined Mr Ms claim on grounds which are unfair and 
unreasonable in the circumstances. So, Accredited should reconsider Mr Ms claim for the 
theft of his car further, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It is of 
course open to them to make any other further enquiries they feel are necessary, but I dont 
think its reasonable for them to use the arguments they have to decline the claim. 
Accredited should also pay Mr M £200 compensation for the upset, worry and frustration 
caused.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd must take 
the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman