DRN-4255966
The complaint
Mr G complains as attorney for his mother Mrs G, that Nationwide Building Society refused 
to allow him to make withdrawals from his mother's and late father's accounts.
What happened
In early December 2022 Mr G attended a branch of Nationwide and asked to make a cash 
withdrawal on an account held in his late father's name for which he had a power of attorney. 
Nationwide refused to allow him to make a withdrawal as it had no record of any power of 
attorney being registered against the account. Mr G also refused to explain what the 
withdrawal was for. This was despite him having been able to make a number of withdrawals 
the previous month. He was asked to leave the branch.
Subsequently Nationwide provided a final response letter in late December 2022 to explain 
that there was no power of attorney on the account.
Mr G referred the matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He has explained that he 
registered a power of attorney for the account and this was confirmed in October 2022. He 
said that after the refusal to allow him to make a withdrawal he was unable to have access to 
his mother's accounts and as a result she couldn't pay for essential repairs to her house and 
she received a summons for non-payment of council tax
Our Investigator established that the situation was not as straightforward as Nationwide 
originally explained. It was notified that Mr G's father passed away in December 2020, 
However, because the death certificate was not supplied Mr G was able to make 
withdrawals from the account on a power of attorney up until his attempted withdrawal in 
December 2022. This was because by that stage Nationwide had removed the power of 
attorney from the account as the death was registered and it was therefore not applicable 
anymore. However, it explained that Mr G had full access to his mother's account from 
October 2022 due to the registration of the power of attorney on that account and that his 
late father's account was transferred into his mother's name in mid-December 2022 (after he 
had attended the branch).
Nationwide did explain that when Mr G attended its branch in December 2022, he was 
asking to withdraw funds from his late father's account and didn't mention his mother's . 
Mr G advised that he had had no access to his mother's account from March 2021.
Our Investigator said that Nationwide should have explained the position to Mr G earlier. As 
a result he believed he had no access to either account until the position was explained 
further in May 2023. He said that Nationwide should pay £700 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Nationwide accepted our Investigators view.
Mr G believed that Nationwide should pay a higher amount in compensation. The difficulties 
in accessing the account into which Mrs Gs pension was paid had been ongoing since 
March 2021. She had had summonses for non-payment of council tax and electricity. She is 
elderly and the matter has caused her a great deal of distress and affected her health.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to emphasise that this decision concerns what happened when Mr G attended the 
branch in December 2022, and the direct effects of that. Whilst he refers to the matter being 
ongoing since March 2021, he has already made a complaint about that to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. That complaint did not proceed and regrettably I have no power to 
reopen it.
The situation was complicated concerning both accounts. When Mr G attended the branch in 
December 2022 it appears that he presented a cancelled passbook but explained that he 
had a power of attorney on his late fathers account, which was the account he was 
attempting to make a withdrawal from. As he had been able to withdraw substantial funds 
from this account in several transactions in November 2022 I'm not surprised if he found it 
hard to understand why he could not still do it. It appears that, despite being advised that 
Mr G's father had passed away, Nationwide still allowed him to make withdrawals from the 
account until it was able to officially confirm the death.
As the transaction concerned his late father's account, it maybe that the customer adviser 
may not have been able to link it to his mother's account (on which a power of attorney had 
been registered). However there had been a power of attorney registered on his late father's 
account which I would have thought would have shown up in the records. If this was not 
evident when Mr G attended the branch, Nationwide would have been able to make 
investigations in response to his complaint to explain the position. Yet it only did so in 
response to a number of requests for information from our Investigator.
So it's not surprising that Mr G thought he did not have access to either account until 
May 2023 when our Investigator established the actual position. As a result Mrs G would 
have been caused some distress and inconvenience. I have considered this and in particular 
Mr G's representations about it. However I do think that a payment of £700 is a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation for Nationwide to pay here and is in line with awards 
we have made in similar cases. 
I've noted that Mrs G had summonses for non-payment of council tax and electricity but 
these related to debts dating back to sometime before Mr G attempted to withdraw from his 
late fathers account in December 2022. Up until then Mr G was able to make substantial 
withdrawals from the account in his late fathers name.
Finally, I can't make any award concerning the way Mr G feels he was treated when he 
attended the branch. The account is in his mother's name and she is the eligible complainant 
and I can only take account of the distress and inconvenience caused directly to her.
Putting things right
I think Nationwide should pay Mrs G £700.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Nationwide Building Society to provide the remedy set out under putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman