DRN-3004168
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined her claim.
What happened
Around November 2020, Mrs L made a claim for clothes and shoes that were left damaged 
due to damp caused by a leak. Mrs L says she wasnt living at home at the time of the claim 
because the condition of her property posed a health risk to her. The damaged items were 
discovered in a cupboard by her landlord who had been arranging repairs to the property. 
Mrs L says she advised her landlord to dispose of the damaged clothing. 
Aviva declined the claim because Mrs L couldnt provide evidence of the loss. She didnt 
have pictures or receipts and the insurer couldnt get enough information about the loss from 
her landlord either. Mrs L suffers from a medical condition which she says hasnt been taken 
into account. After she complained, Aviva concluded that it had declined her claim fairly and 
in line with its terms.
After Mrs L asked this service to get involved, our investigator looked into things and decided 
that Aviva had acted fairly. Mrs L didnt agree and provided bank statements which she says 
shows proof that she purchased the items shes now claiming for. Aviva reviewed this 
information, but said it wasnt enough to prove the loss.
As Mrs L didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To start with, Id like to point out that I empathise with Mrs Ls situation. Shes clearly gone 
through a very difficult period because of her medical condition. And I can only imagine how 
difficult it may have been dealing with this claim and the complaint on top of her condition. 
Having reviewed everything, I share the investigators opinion that Aviva has acted fairly. I 
know Mrs L will be disappointed to hear this, so Ill explain why.
The terms of Mrs Ls policy explain that it is her responsibility to prove any loss and that 
additional information, such as photographs or receipts, may be requested by the insurer. I 
dont find these terms to be unusual  in fact, it is typical for insurers to require additional 
information to support a claim. 
Aviva says that, when a claim is made, it needs to establish whether the circumstances 
satisfy the terms of the policy  this means it needs to determine whether or not it can pay 
the claim. Aviva says it reviewed the pictures it was sent showing the empty cupboard. The 
insurer acknowledges that there does appear to be signs of damp, but this doesnt persuade 
Aviva that the damage to Mrs Ls clothing was caused by a one-off event. Having reviewed 
the images, I dont think Avivas assessment is unreasonable. Its unclear whether the 
damage inside the cupboard was caused by a leak and, given there arent any images of the 
clothing, its difficult to conclude that Mrs Ls clothing was indeed damaged because of a 
leak.
I understand Mrs Ls predicament  her medical condition meant it wasnt suitable for her to 
visit the property to see the items of clothing herself or take pictures. Aviva suggests that this 
wouldnt have prevented Mrs L making alternative arrangements to have the damaged 
clothing collected  possibly by someone else. I dont find this to be an unreasonable 
suggestion. Mrs L says she instructed her landlord to dispose of the damaged clothing, but 
there doesnt seem to be anything to suggest that this needed to be done urgently. So I cant 
see why Mrs L made this decision immediately, before speaking to the insurer. Had she not 
disposed of the damaged clothing, Mrs L may have been able to provide Aviva with the 
information it needed.
Mrs L recently provided bank statements that she says is proof of the clothing she 
purchased, which she now says had been damaged by the leak. But as Aviva points out, the 
statements only show that Mrs L made purchases at certain retailers and there arent any 
details of what was actually purchased. So Im not persuaded that the bank statements show 
clear evidence of the clothing Mrs L is claiming for.
Ive listened to calls Mrs L engaged with as part of her claim. Mrs L says she was treated like 
a criminal and that Aviva left her stressed and frustrated. I know this was a difficult period for 
Mrs L, but I cant fairly say that the Aviva representatives she spoke to treated her unfairly. 
From what Ive heard, Mrs L was dealt with professionally. So I wont be asking Aviva to do 
anything in relation to this.
To summarise, I appreciate recent times have been difficult for Mrs L given her medical 
condition. But I need to treat both parties fairly here. And Aviva needs further information to 
substantiate Mrs Ls claim for her clothing. In this instance, Mrs L cannot provide this. So Im 
satisfied that Aviva has declined the claim fairly.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman