DRN-2501365
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has registered a marker at CIFAS, the national 
fraud database.
What happened
Mr H says that Barclays had registered the marker after he made an application for an 
account. He says that his application wasnt fraudulent, and the marker has prevented him 
from accessing banking facilities elsewhere.
Barclays says that it closed Mr Hs account in September 2018 after a report of fraud. Mr H 
then applied for a new account with it in March 2019. Barclays says he didnt disclose an 
address where he had an adverse credit history and so it then registered the marker at 
CIFAS. When he complained it first said in July 2019 that it should have given Mr H time to 
explain what happened before it closed his original account. It offered to pay him £100 but 
wrongly told him that there was no CIFAS marker. In September 2019 it increased the offer 
and paid him £250 because it had given that incorrect information. But it maintained that the 
CIFAS marker was justified.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr H hadnt disclosed an 
address as part of his application in March 2019 and there was adverse credit information 
about him linked to that address.
Mr H didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that this was causing 
stress and health issues for him. And he had financial difficulties as a result of not being able 
to have a bank account.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 January 2021. I set out below what I 
said.
Through our investigator I asked Barclays to provide some further information about the 
application so that I could see details of which address Mr H used when he made it and what 
questions he had been asked. 
I needed to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Barclays 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
Mr H has referred to having two addresses. To anonymise them I simply referred to them by 
the house number of each. The first is Number 81 which he says is his mothers address. 
And the second is Number 2 which he says is his partners address. 
The original Barclays account that was closed had the address of Number 81. Mr H 
attempted to open accounts elsewhere without success. He applied to Barclays again in 
March 2019. Barclays says he used an address of Number 2 in the application and said that 
he had lived there since January 2016. Barclays has shown that Mr H has a record of 
adverse credit at Number 81 and says he concealed this address in an attempt to open an 
account.
It has also stated that Mr H applied for an account again in December 2019. The address it 
has on its housekeeping print for Mr H only shows his address at Number 81. He wasnt 
successful in that application.
I mentioned above that I had asked for more information about the application in March 
2019. It seems that the information for Mr H has been merged into one record. And there is 
now no source information showing exactly what he input into the application in March 2019. 
While that might have existed at one point Id have expected Barclays to retain the 
information that supports the marker being added. I also noted that while there was adverse 
credit information linked to Mr H at Number 81 so too was there at Number 2.
When asked by the investigator about his address history Mr H seems to have been 
confused about the address he did use and said that he had been staying at times at his 
partners address. When he made an application to Barclays in March 2019 I didnt think 
hed thought through the consequences of its previous decision to close his account. And his 
actions seemed most likely the result of him being desperate to have an account not 
attempting fraud. He made a further application later in 2019 when he again tried to open an 
account with Barclays only for that to be inevitably declined too.
In any event Barclays hadnt satisfied me based on the evidence that it had grounds to apply 
the marker and so I considered it should be removed.
I knew Mr H wants significant compensation for the consequences of the marker. I said I was 
going to disappoint him about that. Financial businesses arent able to refuse to open an 
account solely based on a marker and in line with guidance from CIFAS must make their 
own checks. But they also look at information about past credit history and as I said Id seen 
clear evidence that Mr H has past defaults at both addresses which would have been 
relevant. He may want to check all that information held about him including the full record 
he can obtain from CIFAS. So, with all that in mind I was unable to conclude that Barclays 
actions were the sole cause of him not being able to open an account elsewhere. And in 
making that finding I noted that he wasnt successful in opening an account before March 
2019 when the CIFAS marker was applied by Barclays as well as after that too based on 
what hes told us.
Barclays has already offered and paid Mr H £250 in compensation for its actions in not 
giving him notice of the initial account closure and giving him incorrect information about the 
marker. I considered whether this is appropriate for the inconvenience and distress he was 
caused. In my provisional view the appropriate amount now taking into account everything 
that has happened was a total of £350  an increase of £100.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H said he would accept my decision as it was the right thing to remove the marker. He 
said that he had been caused financial stress and problems. But that he would agree to the 
overall position to resolve things.
Barclays said it didnt agree. It stated what its position was on the complaint again and so that it registered the marker because Mr H had concealed an address which had adverse 
credit information. And it accepted that unfortunately due to the number of applications that 
had been made by him the different profiles had been merged so it is unable to confirm 
the exact information provided at application stage.
It appreciated that there was adverse credit at both addresses but it said that its issue wasnt 
with the adverse information on the credit file but the fact he didnt disclose the address.
Barclays explained it had contacted CIFAS and it had confirmed it agreed. It provided a copy 
of this correspondence. CIFAS said to it that the standard of proof it required is a copy of 
the application details and details of the relevant undisclosed adverse credit.
Clearly those points are highly relevant to my decision here about whether the high bar for a 
CIFAS marker was reached. And about whether it is fair and reasonable for it to be in place. 
I additionally take into account Barclays own acceptance that it cant evidence the details of 
the application. What I have seen is Barclays comments on what it said it had at the time. 
But thats not the same as being able to provide a copy of the actual application details.
Ive taken into account the comments from CIFAS that Barclays has provided. But in doing 
so, Ive impartially considered those alongside all of the other evidence here. That includes 
what Mr H has said to this service. Ive thought about whether based on that and the 
adverse credit at both addresses he was most likely attempting fraud.  Having done so I 
think I can fairly explain my assessment of this complaint and distinguish it from what CIFAS 
said about the marker which was based on the questions and information Barclays had put 
to it. In doing so I dont find that Barclays has sufficiently evidenced the application details 
from that time, and nor has it satisfied me that there were reasonable grounds to think Mr H 
was attempting fraud. In these circumstances I dont think its acting fairly or reasonably by 
continuing to report this as it is.
So, I stand by my provisional findings for the same reasons as before. I appreciate what    
Mr H has said about the impact for him, but I remain of the view that a further £100 in 
compensation is fair.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
1) Remove the CIFAS marker and any external fraud markers relating to this complaint.
2) Pay Mr H a further £100 in compensation making a total of £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman