DRN-4086557
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked the transfer of funds to a new 
Individual Savings Account (ISA) that he had set up with his bank.
What happened
Mr S said on 12 October 2022 his bank submitted a transfer request to Nationwide for a new 
ISA account with interest fixed for one year, but this was rejected. He called Nationwide on 3 
November, but said hes been given the run around on the phone and email since. He said 
Nationwide finally responded on 29 December but didnt investigate properly and ignored his 
follow up email. Mr S said he was forced to reinvest his funds with Nationwide, but lost 
interest as a result of the problems and its lack of response.
Nationwide responded to Mr Ss complaint saying it hadnt made a mistake. It said the 
transfer was rejected on 13 October 2022 because his bank didnt include his National 
Insurance number and his bank were informed the same day. Nationwide said it transferred 
Mr Ss funds to another account when his bank made a second request in February 2023.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response saying that it didnt check the National 
Insurance number with him and didnt notify his bank until 1 November 2022 and it had this 
information on file. Mr S said hes suffered a loss of interest and should be compensated for 
the stress hes been caused by Nationwides failure to deal with this problem in a proper or 
timely manner. He referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said Nationwide 
received an electronic ISA transfer request from Mr Ss bank on 12 October 2022 missing 
his National Insurance number and rejected this on 13 October and informed Mr Ss bank.
Mr S didnt agree that Nationwide had followed the correct process. He said he gave it the 
required information on 3 November 2022, and it should have acted accordingly. He said 
Nationwide ignored his communications and didnt make contact. Mr S requested an 
ombudsman review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S is very unhappy that his transfer of funds for a new ISA was rejected by Nationwide, 
and it didnt act on this when he called on 3 November 2022. 
From what Ive seen, the electronic transfer request from Mr Ss bank didnt include the 
National Insurance number for Mr S, which is a government requirement. I think it follows in 
these circumstances that the correct process was for Nationwide to reject the application 
and I can see that it did so to Mr Ss bank the day after receipt, (13 October 2022). 
Nationwides notification to Mr Ss bank was all it was required to do in these circumstances, 
so I think the missing number could have provided via a new transfer request to prevent loss 
of interest. I havent found that Nationwide has made any errors and it appears to have 
followed the correct process in its treatment of the ISA application made on Mr Ss behalf.
It appears that Mr Ss bank put in a generic National Insurance number. I cant be certain 
whether or not this was an oversight, but as this complaint only concerns Nationwide I cant 
consider Mr Ss banks actions. It is open to Mr S to bring a separate complaint about his 
bank if he wishes. 
Mr S questioned why Nationwide didnt make a new transfer on 3 November 2022 when it 
had his National Insurance number and why it subsequently made an unauthorised transfer 
of his funds in February 2023, after the authorised request had failed. 
Nationwide has explained that the account was transferred in February 2023 to Mr Ss bank 
after Nationwide eventually received the electronic request it required from Mr Ss bank with 
the correct details. On 3 November 2022 there was no new electronic transfer request from 
Mr Ss bank. Im sorry to learn this involved an early redemption penalty to Mr S, but I think 
Nationwide was correctly following instructions and its process. 
Mr S said he received little or no communications from Nationwide. Nationwide receives 
electronic ISA transfer requests from other banks and payment providers and is only 
required to notify them of rejection  which it did to Mr Ss bank. I can see from its records 
that Nationwide made attempts to reach Mr S by phone on several occasions in November 
2022 without success. I havent found that Nationwide has acted in error or failed to follow its 
process for dealing with an ISA application and so I cannot require it to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman