DRN-4329563
The complaint
P, a limited company, is unhappy with what Higos Insurance Services Ltd did after it
contacted it about a legal claim that had been made against it.
What happened
P is a company involved in the management of a property. In May 2022 it told Higos (its
broker) about a letter of claim it had received from a leaseholder. That alleged P hadnt
taken action to address water ingress to his property.
Higos contacted the insurers of Ps management liability policy who said its policy excluded
claims relating to property damage. In June 2002 Higos contacted the insurers of Ps
property insurance policy. A loss adjuster was appointed but cover was subsequently
declined because the damage didnt result from an insured peril (it was regarded as a
maintenance and upkeep issue). Higos also checked in general terms with the separate
insurer of Ps legal expenses policy. It didnt think a claim would be covered under this.
In response to the complaint P made Higos accepted there had been delays in it confirming
cover wouldnt be provided under the management liability policy. It also accepted it didnt
make clear that claims were being handled by different insures or what requests for further
information related to. It offered to pay £300 in recognition of the inconvenience P had been
caused.
Our investigator agreed there had been failings by Higos. But he also noted P was aware
from its policy documentation of who it needed to contact to make claims on its policies. He
thought the £300 Higos had already offered was fair.
P didnt agree. It said it had trusted Higos as a professional broker to provide correct advice
and information about what to do. And it hadnt suggested it should approach its legal
expenses insurer. It had now done so and the claim had been accepted. It thought if it had
done this when the claim was first made the legal fees it subsequently had to pay would
have been covered by this policy. It thought Higos should be responsible for these. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
Ive reviewed Higoss terms of business which are available online. In relation to claims
these say When we receive notification of an incident that could give rise to a claim, we will
respond promptly, explain how we will handle your claim and tell you what you need to do.
We will give you reasonable guidance to help you make a claim under your policy.
So, while Higos isnt responsible for the decisions Ps insurers reached, it should provide
support in line with those terms. I dont think its in dispute that it didnt do everything it
should in this case. In particular although it provided an initial notification of the claim to the
insurers of the management liability policy it didnt provide P with information about the
outcome of that for a number of weeks.
It didnt contact the insurers of the property insurance policy until a month after the claim had
been made. And it didnt contact the insurers of a legal expenses policy P held until
September 2022 (around four months after the claim was first made to it). I can also
understand why P found some of the requests it made confusing given these didnt make
clear who the different parties involved with the claims were.
Ive gone on to think about how thats impacted P and whether the compensation Higos has
already offered does enough to put things right. P says Higos didnt advise it to approach its
legal expenses insurer. And, if it had done, the legal fees it had to pay itself would have been
covered by its policy.
I can see P did raise the issue of legal expenses insurance with Higos and it explained it had
been in contact with the relevant insurer who advised they didnt think their policy would
cover the claim. However, that insurer also made clear to Higos that P was free to submit a
formal claim for further assessment. I cant see Higos made that clear to P. I think it should
have done.
P says the claim it subsequently made was accepted by the legal expenses insurer and its
provided an email from March 2023 which confirms provisional acceptance of this. But it
says the policy wouldnt cover costs it had already incurred. So P thought Higos should take
responsibility for these because if it had submitted the claim earlier (or advised P to do so)
these would have been covered by its policy.
I understand that argument. But having reviewed the available information it wasnt clear to
me on what basis the legal expenses insurer had accepted Ps claim. The policy referenced
in its acceptance email wasnt one it appeared to be the insurer of. Nor was it clear what
cover was available under that policy for the claim P made.
I asked the legal expenses insurer for further information on this. In response it confirmed it
was no longer considering this claim. It said it had been assessed incorrectly using the
wrong policy terms. The correct terms were the ones previously referenced in its response to
Higos. And its position remained as set out in that email (which said the policy wouldnt
cover the legal expenses claim P wanted to bring).
I appreciate this has been a confusing situation for P. But on the basis of the information I
now have I cant conclude Ps legal costs would have been covered if an earlier claim had
been made to its legal expenses insurer. Although that claim was initially accepted the
insurer has now made clear that was in error and its position remains as previously set out. I
cant therefore say Higos should be responsible for the legal costs P incurred.
Nevertheless, I do appreciate P has been inconvenienced by what Higos got wrong. I
recognise this will have caused Ps directors to spend time dealing with issues which they
could reasonably have expected Higos to be addressing. But Im also mindful of the fact that
some of that work would have been required in any case to respond to the claim that had
been made against it.P has suggested there should be some sanction on Higos in relation to (for example) not
meeting the timeframes for providing a complaint response set out in the relevant rules. But
it isnt for us to punish or fine financial businesses (thats the job of the regulator; the
Financial Conduct Authority). Our role is to put right what a business got wrong in the
individual complaints which are brought to us. On balance I think the £300 Higos has already
offered is enough to recognise the impact on P of what it got wrong.
Finally, I can see in correspondence with Higos (and in its initial complaint to us), P queried
whether the management liability policy had been mis-sold (given it contained a property
damage exclusion). However, that isnt something P raised in response to the investigators
view or in the further comments it provided for me to consider. So it isnt something Ive
considered in this provisional decision. In any event, if P does have ongoing concerns about
the sale of the policy, I think those would be best addressed as part of a separate complaint
given its a distinct issue from its concerns about what happened after claims were made.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision, I dont have any reason to change the 
conclusions I set out in it. 
My final decision
Higos Insurance Services Ltd has already made an offer of £300 to settle the complaint 
which I think is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Higos Insurance Services 
Ltd should pay P £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman