DRN-2947567
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim 
they made under the subsidence section of their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have approached their home insurer  Aviva  three times to report cracking 
at their property, and to claim for this under the subsidence cover in their policy. 
This decision focuses only on Avivas decision to decline the claim in 2021. This is because 
all sides agree that Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about the first two claim decisions was brought 
to our service out of time. 
Following their claim being twice declined, Mr and Mrs B instructed an engineer to assess 
the damage at their property and provide a report. The report was completed in 
January 2021. Mr and Mrs B submitted the report to Aviva and asked it to reconsider its 
previous decision to decline their claim.
Aviva considered the new expert evidence provided by Mr and Mrs B, but it maintained that 
their claim could not be covered. Aviva explained that Mr and Mrs Bs report did not 
conclude that the damage was being caused by subsidence. Instead the report concluded 
that the damage had arisen because an adjacent property was demolished some time ago, 
and the proper steps werent taken by the neighbour (or their contractors) to prevent damage 
to Mr and Mrs Bs property.
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. She didnt think it should be 
upheld. She thought Avivas decision to decline the claim was reasonable, taking into 
account the findings of the report provided by Mr and Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions reached by our investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. Ill explain in more detail below.
Mr and Mrs Bs home insurance policy is not designed to cover every type of damage their 
property may suffer. Instead, the policy covers specified insured events (or perils). In this 
case, Mr and Mrs B are seeking to claim for damage which they say has been caused by 
subsidence  which is a specified insured event covered by their policy.
Mr and Mrs Bs policy defines subsidence as:
Downward movement of the land beneath the buildings that is not as a result of 
settlement.
This means that for successful claim, under the subsidence cover, it would need to be 
established that the damage to Mr and Mrs Bs property was most likely caused by 
downward movement of the land beneath the property.
Mr and Mrs B have provided a report, completed by a qualified engineer, to support their 
position that Aviva should cover their claim. But in my view, the report provided doesnt 
support their position that the damage to their property has been caused by subsidence.
The general observations section of the report states:
Historic Land Registry documents indicate that when the property was built it 
abutted tightly against the house to its immediate left.
The comments section of the report states:
The problem at this property is primarily caused by the lack of realisation of the 
neighbour and his professional team at the time that not only would they have to 
protect the new exterior left hand gable to Number .. from the effects of water and 
temperature, but also the untoward action of wind pressure/suction on the wall and 
the other actions on the wall, that the property was previously not constructed or nor 
had been designed to withstand
And in the conclusions section, the engineer concludes:
The movement at the property relates to the demolition of the property next door, 
and the inadequacy of the remedial construction carried out by the owners of that 
property to protect Number .. from the effects of the removal of the sheltering 
building
The report makes no suggestion that there has been downward movement of the land 
beneath the property. Instead, the engineer is clear in his findings that the damage to 
Mr and Mrs Bs property has been caused by the removal of the neighbouring property.
Based on the evidence provided, Im satisfied that Avivas decision to decline Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim, under the subsidence section of their policy, is both in line with the terms and 
conditions and fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. This is because the evidence 
suggests that the damage was not caused by subsidence.
Aside from the subsidence section, Ive considered whether the damage at Mr and Mrs Bs 
property should be covered under any other section of their policy, for example the 
accidental damage section. However, the accidental damage cover provided by their policy 
doesnt extend to the type of damage their property has suffered. And unfortunately for 
Mr and Mrs B, I dont think the damage at their property would be covered under any other 
section of their home insurance policy either.
Im aware that Aviva suggested that Mr and Mrs B may wish to utilise any legal expenses 
insurance they may have in order to pursue their neighbour. But Mr and Mrs B have stated 
they do not have any legal expenses insurance. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs B may wish to obtain some independent legal advice about their 
options moving forward. But in terms of their complaint against Aviva, I dont think it should 
be upheld for the reasons stated above.My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about 
Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman