DRN-3323700
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse 
Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr W acquired a used car via a five-year hire purchase agreement with 
Black Horse. The car was around three years old and had a mileage of about 44,000.
Mr W says that around the end of 2020 the car started to make a slight intermittent noise. He 
says that around this time the car had been due a service but because of the situation with 
covid this couldnt take place until May 2021.
Shortly after the car had been serviced the engine management light illuminated and Mr W 
booked the car in for an investigation with the supplying dealers. An issue with a turbo 
charger was diagnosed and the car was taken in for repairs in June 2021.
After the car had been returned to Mr W, the engine management light again came on and 
the car was returned to the supplying dealers. Mr W says he was advised the car required a 
new vacuum pump but when he raised the noise the car had been making the cars engine 
was stripped. This revealed that the cars timing belt had delaminated. Mr W says he was 
informed this could have been the cause of the other parts requiring repairs. Mr W says the 
total bill for repairs had reached £4,004.
Mr W complained to Black Horse as he said the timing belt should have lasted for either 10 
years or 140,000 miles. The car at this point was around five and half years old and had a 
mileage of 68,500.
Mr W had also raised a complaint with the manufacturer who had offered to pay one third of 
the repair costs.
Black Horse didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said that although the timing belt had failed 
prior to the recommended life cycle this does not mean the goods have not been durable for 
use and of satisfactory quality. Black Horse said there was no evidence that the timing belt 
had failed due to a manufacturing fault.
Mr W disagreed with the view of Black Horse and complained to this service. He said the car 
hadnt been fit for purpose. Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ws complaint should be 
upheld. She said that if there had been a fault with the timing belt either present or 
developing at the point of supply then she would have expected that to have come to light 
sooner than it had. Our investigator also said that she thought the car had been sufficiently 
durable taking into account its age and the number of miles Mr W had been able to drive 
since acquiring it. She said the expected life of a timing belt was a guideline only but that this 
was a wearable part and faults naturally developed over time.
Mr W disagreed with our investigators view. He said the issue with the timing belt was one 
which was well known by the manufacturer and the car hadnt been fit for purpose. 
As the parties have been unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr W is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Black Horse is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about 
their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price, and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here, the car wasn't new being around three-years old and with a mileage of about 44,500 
at the point of supply. I think that, taking into account these things, a reasonable person 
would have expected there to be issues with maintenance and repair over time since 
components of the car would have been subject to wear and tear through use. So, unlike 
a new car, there wouldnt be an expectation that the car was fault free.
Ive seen that Mr W has raised the car making an intermittent but minor noise from around 
December 2020, however, the car didnt go for investigations until the engine light 
illuminated in May 2021. I dont think I have enough evidence, given Mr Ws description of 
the occasional and minor nature of the noise to say that this was necessarily linked to the 
timing belt.
By the time the car required repairs Mr W had had the car for over 2 years and had driven 
in excess of 23,000 miles in it. I think that it is reasonable to say that had there been an 
issue with the timing belt either present or developing at the point of supply of the car to 
Mr W then the fault would have become apparent sooner than it had. 
Mr W says that as the life span of a timing belt is given as being either 10 years or 
140,000 then there was an inherent fault with the part, and it wasnt as durable as would 
be expected. He says that this means the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when hed 
acquired it. Mr W says it would be fair for Black Horse to cover the remaining costs of the 
repairs.
While I appreciate the manufacturer has offered to pay one third of the costs of the 
repairs, I cant reasonably say this is an admission of a fault with the part as opposed to a 
gesture of goodwill. Mr W says that issues with the timing belt are well known to the 
manufacturer, but I havent seen any evidence that the timing belt had an inherent fault. Mr W is relying on the issue having arisen earlier than the guideline.
Ive seen that timing belts are generally expected to last from 60,000 miles, but the 
lifespan of this part is variable, and it can be affected by a number of things such as how 
often the car is driven and even temperatures. Timing belts can and do require replacing 
earlier than the guidelines and this doesnt necessarily mean that the part had an inherent 
defect. I dont think I have enough evidence based only on when the timing belt failed to 
say that the car wasnt sufficiently durable and therefore not of satisfactory quality. I think 
a reasonable person would expect a car of this age (over five years) and this mileage 
(around 68,000) to require repairs and maintenance and would consider that the car had 
lasted a reasonable amount of time before issues arose. 
 
So, although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr W, Im not upholding his 
complaint for the reasons given.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman