DRN-2623327
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC recorded defaults on his credit file when they 
should have done and also with the amount of compensation that they have offered him 
because of this.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr T began receiving correspondence from a debt collection agency 
which said that Mr T owed an outstanding balance to Barclays. Mr T contacted Barclays who 
said that the balance related to two old accounts that had been inactive since 2010.
Mr T wasnt happy that Barclays had passed this balance to a debt collection agency, 
especially given that Barclays hadnt contacted him themselves about this. Mr T was also 
unhappy to discover that Barclays had recorded a default on his credit file in relation to this 
balance. So, he made a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ts complaint. They acknowledged that they had contacted Mr T for 
payment on the two accounts since 2010 and that because of this it wasnt appropriate for 
them to have done so on now. So, Barclays upheld Mr Ts complaint and agreed to remove 
the default from Mr Ts credit file. They also made an offer of £250 compensation for the 
inconvenience this matter had caused.
Mr T didnt think that Barclays offer of compensation went far enough. And while Barclays 
did remove the default from Mr Ts credit file, Mr T was dismayed to discover that the default 
had been reapplied to his credit file shortly afterwards. So, he made another complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ts complaint and apologised that the default had been recorded on 
his credit file for a second time. Barclays agreed to remove the default from Mr Ts credit file 
and increased the amount of compensation being offered for the inconvenience that Mr T 
had experienced to £500.
Mt T wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they noted that Barclays had already 
undertaken the corrective action necessary to restore Mr Ts credit file to the position that it 
had been in before the default was added, and they felt that the compensation of £500 
offered by Barclays was a fair amount. So, they didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr T for the detailed submissions that he has made to this service. I hope 
the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here will not be taken as a discourtesy. As an 
informal dispute resolution service, were tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to 
every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue. 
 
Id like to assure Mr T that any specific points he has raised which I havent responded to 
here shouldnt be taken an indication that I havent read and considered these points. 
Rather, I have read and considered all the points that Mr T has made but have focussed this 
letter on those points which I feel are impactful regarding the outcome of this complaint.
In their responses to Mr Ts complaints, Barclays acknowledged that it wasnt appropriate for 
them to have pursued Mr T for the balances outstanding from 2010, or to have recorded a 
default on Mr Ts credit file on either the first or second instance.
In circumstances such as this, where Barclays have acknowledged that they made a 
mistake, what this service would expect would be that Barclays take the necessary 
corrective action to restore Mr T to the position that he would have been in had the mistake 
not been made, so that Mr T doesnt incur any material financial loss because of what 
happened. It would also be expected by this service that Barclays would consider the 
distress and inconvenience that this matter has caused Mr T and to offer a reasonable 
amount of compensation to Mr T to account for this.
Considering the first point, its my understanding that Barclays have removed the default 
from Mr Ts credit file, for the second time, and that they have written off the outstanding 
balance relating to the two old accounts to ensure that Mr T will not be pursued for those 
balances moving forwards. 
This is the corrective action that I would expect to see here, and Im satisfied that this 
corrective action has resulted in Mr T being restored to the position that he would have been 
in had Barclays pursual of the balances never taken place. And it follows from this that Im 
satisfied that no financial loss has been incurred by Mr T as a result of what has happened 
here.
I understand that Mr T is concerned that the recording of these defaults on his credit file will 
have a lifelong effect. However, I can assure Mr T that this isnt the case, and that the 
removal of the defaults from his credit file leaves his credit file in the position that it would be 
in had the defaults never been recorded.
However, while Mr T has not incurred any financial loss because of the actions of Barclays, 
he has suffered some distress and inconvenience, and so I think its appropriate that 
Barclays should offer Mr T some compensation to account for this.
Compensation can be a subjective issue, and an offer considered fair and reasonable by 
one person may not be considered as such by another. But the £500 offered by Barclays 
here does feel fair to me, and I must note that it is commensurate with what this service 
would expect to see here, given the circumstances. 
I understand that Mr T is of the opinion that a much larger amount of compensation is 
warranted in this instance. But while I can appreciate Mr Ts frustration at what has 
happened, compensation at the level that Mr T is seeking doesnt feel reasonable to me 
here, and it would be disproportionate to the level of compensation this service would expect 
to see offered in similar circumstances.
Mr T has also expressed his dissatisfaction that Barclays closed his first complaint without 
his consent. It is beyond the remit of this service to formally investigate complaints about the 
complaint handling process of a business. But I would note, speaking generally, that a business is entitled to want a degree of finality on a complaint, and when thats the case its 
appropriate that the business should send a final response letter which includes any offer the 
business wishes to make, and which also advises that customer of their rights beyond that. 
Mr T also expressed concern that Barclays had breached data protection law in selling his 
debt to a debt purchasing company. This aspect of Mr Ts complaint is also beyond the remit 
of this service and I can only refer Mr T to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) if he 
wishes to pursue this specific matter further. However, I will note that Barclays confirmed 
that no sale of debt took place. Rather, the outstanding balance was passed to a debt 
collection agency to pursue the debt on Barclays behalf.
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that Barclays have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here. Im satisfied that Barclays have taken the necessary corrective action to 
put Mr T back into the position he would have been in had the balances never been pursued, 
and Im also satisfied that Barclays have made an offer of compensation to Mr T that it 
reasonable and commensurate with what this service would expect in similar circumstances.
It follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Barclays to take any 
further action here - beyond that which they have already offered to Mr T. I realise that this 
wont be the outcome that Mr T was wanting, but I hope that he can understand, considering 
everything I have explained above, why I have reached the final decision that I have.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman