DRN-2945990
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with information provided by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) about his direct 
debit guarantee.  
What happened
Mr N is being represented in this complaint by Ms H. For avoidance of confusion I have 
referred to Mr N throughout this final decision.
Mr N contacted Lloyds on 6 December 2020 after noticing he was paying more for his 
internet than what had been agreed with his provider (provider T). He informed the call 
handler that hed looked at his monthly statements, and theyre taking a payment at the start 
of the month which is like £60 and then theyre taking payment at the end of the month. 
The call handler said Im going to look at last 12 months and see what kind of payments 
theyve been taking from you. Mr N was then informed that hed paid provider T a total of 
£1,318.61 in direct debit payments from January to November 2020. 
The call handler explained Im going to go ahead and fill a direct debit indemnity form. He 
told Mr N [Lloyds] may contact the company in connection with the refund request and if 
they find that an error did not occur in collecting the direct debit [Lloyds] may be entitled to 
take the refund back from the account.
On 7 December Mr Ns account was credited with £1,049.61 as a direct debit refund. On 11 
December Lloyds applied a direct debit indemnity claim against Mr Ns account. Mr Ns 
account was debited for the amount of £1,049.61.
On 16 December Mr N called Lloyds to ask why the money had been credited, and then 
taken back. Mr N was told that following further investigation Lloyds had found that of the 18 
direct debits which had been taken from Mr Ns account, only one direct debit for the amount 
of £31.51 had been paid to provider T. The remaining 17 direct debits had been returned 
unpaid. So Mr N was only due £31.51 for the successfully paid direct debit.
Mr N was unhappy about this. He explained that his account was now significantly 
overdrawn. Mr N said the call handler told him hed paid £1,049.61 to provider T. Mr N 
wasnt expecting Lloyds to reclaim this money so hed spent the money shortly after itd been 
paid into his account. Mr N complained about the information hed been given. 
Lloyds responded to Mr Ns complaint on 23 December. They agreed that the information 
about the number of unpaid direct debits provided during the call of 6 December couldve 
been clearer. They offered Mr N £50 for their error. 
Mr N contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service as he was unhappy with the response 
from Lloyds. He said there were direct debits that werent paid and went straight back into 
the account. They shouldve seen that when they advised us instead [of] saying to us we 
have made those payments
The investigator found it wouldnt be fair to hold Lloyds responsible for the direct debit 
payments being returned unpaid, and the financial difficulties Mr N is now experiencing. 
Because of this the investigator didnt recommend Lloyds do anything more to put things 
right for Mr N. 
Mr N was unhappy with these findings. As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed 
to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
I understand that this has been an upsetting time for Mr N. Having reviewed the case, I 
agree with the investigators outcome for broadly the same reasons. So I wont be 
recommending further compensation. I can understand this is likely to come as a 
disappointment to Mr N but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached 
this decision.   
Its not disputed that Lloyds couldve done more to check the number of direct debit 
payments made to provider T, and given Mr N accurate information about the number of 
those direct debits which were returned unpaid. Lloyds have accepted responsibility for the 
lack of clarity in the information provided. The dispute now relates to the award of 
compensation they should pay for what went wrong. 
I agree that theres more that Lloyds couldve done to clearly inform Mr N about the 
transactions with provider T, and specifically that although several payments had been 
attempted, only one payment over the last 12 months had been successfully taken by 
provider T. If Mr N had been correctly told this, I think its likely that only one payment 
wouldve been refunded by Lloyds, and Mr Ns account wouldve unlikely been overdrawn by 
such a significant amount. 
Lloyds made an error, and I think its fair that they pay compensation for this. Mr N says the 
compensation amount should reflect the trouble and upset hes experienced by his account 
going overdrawn. Although Mr N is frustrated by whats happened, I dont think 
compensation should include the £1,049.61 amount. This payment shouldnt have been 
made by Lloyds in the first place, and so isnt an amount which Mr N is entitled to. 
In reaching this view, Ive taken into account that the complaint is not about Lloyds decision 
to debit Mr Ns account for £1,049.61. This complaint is about the incorrect information given 
to Mr N by Lloyds about the payments hed made to provider T.
Mr N told the call handler that he noticed the inconsistent payments to provider T after 
reviewing his Lloyds bank statements. I can appreciate Mr N may not have noticed the direct 
debits being returned on the payments to provider T, but I dont think thats something I can 
hold Lloyds responsible for. The statements clearly showed payments being made to 
provider T, only to be returned a few days later.
Mr N was also sent a letter in the post each time a direct debit instruction to provider T failed. 
Ive checked the address these letters were sent to and it matches the information provided 
to this service for Mr N. So on balance although I cant confirm whether Mr N received them, 
I think its likely these letters were correctly addressed and sent. The direct debit guarantee was processed in good faith, and Mr N was informed that if they 
find that an error did not occur in collecting the direct debit [Lloyds] may be entitled to take 
the refund back from the account. When Lloyds further investigated the claim, they debited 
Mr Ns account, as they said they would. Although I can appreciate the shock and upset 
caused to Mr N, I cant say Lloyds did anything wrong, as their actions were in line with what 
Mr N was told would happen. 
Lloyds have agreed to pay £50 in recognition of the information about unpaid direct debits 
not being clearly explained. Having considered all the evidence I think this amount is broadly 
in line with the compensation wed recommend- keeping in mind the statements and unpaid 
direct debit letters Mr N was sent showing his account activity with provider T. Because of 
this, I wont be directing Lloyds to do anything more in settlement of this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr N to decide whether to 
accept the offer of £50 from Lloyds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman