DRN-3462662
The complaint
Miss C complains that Unum Ltd unfairly declined her income protection claim. 
What happened
Miss C had access to a group income protection scheme through her employer. The policy 
was underwritten by Unum and in February 2020 Miss C submitted a claim on it.
Miss C explained shed been absent from work since November 2019 because of severe 
pain in her arms, hand, neck, and upper back. She said her doctors had advised that sitting 
at a desk was a major aggravating factor for her too, as was typing and looking at a screen.
Unum said the available medical evidence did not indicate that Miss Cs musculoskeletal 
problems meant she was unable to perform the material and substantial duties of her 
insured role with reasonable adjustments. So, it declined her claim. Miss C complained, but 
Unum maintained its decision.
Miss C referred her complaint to this service and told us she wanted Unum to admit her valid 
claim and make backdated payments. She said Unum should acknowledge the severity of 
her condition and its failure to obtain further opinions. And she said that it should apologise 
and compensate her for both legal costs and extensive distress. Miss C also said that Unum 
should confirm it would arrange a health assessment, with a medical professional that 
understood her condition during any periodic assessments of her successful claim. 
Our investigator looked at what happened but didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint. They said 
the medical evidence demonstrated that Miss C had been under the care of different 
specialists who all supported her diagnosis. But, they said it didnt demonstrate an incapacity 
in line with the group income protection policy terms. And, further, there was not any 
evidence to demonstrate that Miss Cs employer had investigated and implemented any 
reasonable adjustments to her working conditions either.  
Miss C disagreed and said Unum had not acted fairly. She said it needed to have a detailed 
understanding of medical conditions and the impact those could have on an individual in 
order to assess any claim. And, that all of the medical professionals involved in her care as 
well as her employer had declared her as unfit to work. Miss C also said that Unum had 
failed to contact her employer regarding any reasonable adjustments, and that her line 
manager had concerns about the feasibility of such adjustments too.  
Our investigator considered Miss Cs response but did maintained their opinion. They 
explained it was for a claimant to demonstrate that they had a valid claim and for Unum to 
assess the evidence presented to it. They said there wasnt sufficient medical evidence to 
support or reason Miss Cs incapacity, and that while they were happy to consider any 
evidence Miss C wanted to provide to show reasonable adjustments had been investigated, 
there still remained a lack of evidence to demonstrate incapacity in any event. 
Miss C said there was no way that Unum could have fairly reached the conclusion it did. So, 
she asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman and the case was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unum will already be aware that it has a responsibility to consider claims both promptly and 
fairly, and to not reject them unreasonably. 
The grounds upon which Unum provides its group income protection cover are set out within 
the relevant policy documents  namely, the policy schedule and the policy terms and 
conditions. They explain a member will be considered incapacitated when the following 
definition is satisfied:
Definition B:
(i) If a member is not required by his terms of employment or by his partnership 
agreement to hold a licence or certificate which is issued only when the member 
meets certain medical standards, and
(1) For the deferred period and the first 2 years following the completion of the 
deferred period, if
(a)Unum is satisfied that the member is unable, by reason of illness or 
injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of his insured 
occupation, and
(b) The member is not following any occupation, except as provided under 
paragraph 5.3,
then the member is incapacitated.
Material and substantial duties are defined as follows:
material and substantial duties means the duties that are normally required for the 
performance of the members insured occupation, and which cannot reasonably be 
omitted or modified by the member or the employer. A direct journey to/from the members 
normal residence to/from the members normal place of business is not regarded as part of 
their insured occupation.
So, in line with that, it would not be enough for the medical evidence in this complaint to 
demonstrate that Miss C was unwell and/or suffering from musculoskeletal problems. It 
would need to demonstrate that she was unable to perform the material and substantial 
duties of her occupation because of them.
Miss C clearly feels very strongly about her position and says Unum could not have fairly 
reached the conclusion it did based on the medical evidence available. Having looked at the 
available evidence, I agree that it shows Miss C was experiencing musculoskeletal 
problems. 
I wont refer to every piece of evidence, but I note for example that Miss C was signed off 
work by her GP on different occasions and the reasons given for that were, Stress, neck 
and arm pain, neck pain and arm symptoms and Cervical spondylosis with radiculopathy. 
I also note that a Consultant Neurosurgeon explained there was evidence of Miss C 
suffering from right sided C6 and C7 nerve compression and wear and tear in the mid-cervical spine. And a Consultant Sports Medicine Physician also said Miss Cs cervical 
spine imaging had confirmed evidence of radiculopathy secondary to a disc lesion.
Miss C has explained the ways in which her musculoskeletal problems impacted her ability 
to work and I thank her for doing so. As I noted above, I agree that the medical evidence 
shows Miss C was experiencing musculoskeletal problems and Ive no reason to doubt her 
testimony about the impact those had on her. However, for the reasons Ill explain I am not 
persuaded it was unreasonable of Unum to conclude that incapacity in line with the relevant 
policy terms had not been demonstrated. 
Without referring to every item I note:
On 8 August 2019 the Consultant Sports Medicine Physician quoted above 
recommended a neurosurgical opinion for Miss C. They also advised that she 
continue with her physical therapy and avoid breaststroke when swimming. 
On 13 August 2019 the Consultant Neurosurgeon quoted above recommended 
Miss C see an Osteopath  for four sessions in the first instance but return for a 
potential injection if that wasnt effective. They also said: 
Please adjust your workplace environment, so that you are not hyperextending your 
neck. We had a dialogue about that. You need to think about how you sit and make 
the adjustments before you get into a situation where you are experiencing pain.
On 21 November 2019 an Osteopath commented on Miss C doing well with 
treatment but acknowledged that was unfortunately not being progressive. They too 
said it had become clear that Miss Cs work posture aggravated matters, and they 
referred her back to the Consultant Neurosurgeon.
The Consultant Neurosurgeon reiterated on 26 November 2019 that the nature of 
Miss Cs work as well as her commute may well be aggravating matters. They noted 
that Miss C was off work at the time and said they hoped her symptoms would settle 
spontaneously after a further period off. 
On 20 January 2020 the same Consultant Neurosurgeon said Miss C ought to get 
into a physio programme to work on her core strength  particularly around her 
shoulders and back so that her posture was better. They also provided further 
commentary around Miss C adjusting her workplace and said:
You mentioned that as things stand at this moment, you are very limited in what you 
can do, hanging up clothes on a washing line can irritate your arms, as can carrying 
anything, as indeed can typing on a computer and you were left pondering whether 
your employer would keep you on with software such as voice activation, that 
enables you to carry on in your place of work. They may well do and I think that is 
worth discussing with them.
The Consultant Neurosurgeon further explained that while they were not closing their 
door for Miss C, they were not going to make a further routine appointment for her. 
So, while much of the medical evidence speaks of Miss Cs diagnosis and the 
treatment/management plans recommended for her, I dont think it demonstrates that she 
was unable by reason of her musculoskeletal problems to perform the material and 
substantial duties of her insured occupation. Again, thats not to say that Miss C was not 
experiencing musculoskeletal problems.I do appreciate that Miss C says her commute to her contractual place of work formed an 
inherent part of her job and should not have been excluded by Unum when considering her 
claim. The policy specifically explains a members commute is not regarded as part of their 
insured occupation however, so Unum was not required to consider the commute.  
I am aware that Miss C was seen by an occupational health service too, which found that 
she was not fit to work. Although helpful, that opinion needs to be considered in the round 
and I am mindful that it appears to have been largely based on Miss Cs described levels of 
incapacity. 
So again, although Miss C has provided much testimony to support the ways in which her 
musculoskeletal problems were preventing her from working, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Unum to find that was not collectively demonstrated within the wider 
available medical evidence. 
As both parties are aware, the terms of the group policy also set out that Unum will require 
evidence of any reasonable adjustments having been investigated and implemented: 
7.3 Rehabilitation and reasonable adjustment
In respect of a member, Unum will require evidence that the employer has:
(a) investigated and implemented any reasonable adjustments to the working conditions, 
the physical features and any other arrangements relating to the members 
occupation which would enable the member to continue working for the employer, 
and
(b)investigated and, where appropriate, made reasonable efforts to implement any 
rehabilitation and reintegration programmes designed to enable the member to 
return to work with the employer.
Miss C has said she found herself in a difficult position regarding the reasonable 
adjustments  in that her employer did not wish to pursue them without her being confirmed 
as fit to work, and her line manager had concerns about adjustments too. 
I empathise with what Miss C has said but think it would be unfair of me to hold Unum 
responsible for the actions of her employer. Some of the medical practitioners involved in 
Miss Cs care had set out that adjustments should form part of the treatment/management of 
her musculoskeletal problems. And the relevant policy terms required evidence of 
reasonable adjustments having been investigated and implemented. So I remain of the 
opinion that it was not unreasonable of Unum to decline Miss Cs claim for the reasons it did. 
Of course, I recognise Miss C will likely be further disappointed by my findings, but I hope 
she can appreciate why I have been unable to find in her favour. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman