DRN-2422234
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC closed his accounts even though he explained he had 
been the victim of fraud.
What happened
In May 2020 Lloyds wrote to Mr G and said that it would be closing his accounts after 65 
days. He complained and said that a marker on the CIFAS national fraud database had been 
added when his cheque book from another bank was taken and used without his authority. 
He is unhappy that Lloyds still closed his accounts. And he says that this had a significant 
impact on him as he has a disability.
Lloyds said in its final response that it had reviewed his accounts and decided to close them. 
And that it hadnt added any information at CIFAS about that decision. It also referred to Mr 
Gs application for accounts to another part of its business grouping being declined from 
reviewing information held with CIFAS and credit reference agencies.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld and said that Lloyds had 
acted within its terms and conditions. She said that any marker at CIFAS wasnt down to 
Lloyds and this was something Mr G might want to take up with the relevant financial 
business.
Mr G didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has correctly referred to the terms and conditions of the accounts Mr G held 
with Lloyds. And here a commercial decision was made to close them and in the letter about 
this Lloyds gave Mr G the required notice period.
Im satisfied that this decision was taken when Lloyds reviewed all the information it had 
about Mr G including his account history. It had heard his explanation about the marker at 
CIFAS. I know how devastating the decision was for Mr G given his personal circumstances 
and I can see that Lloyds considered an appeal but didnt change its position. 
I cant look in this complaint about Lloyds at the circumstances in which a fraud marker came 
to be recorded at CIFAS that Mr G refers to. That would be something he would need to take 
up with the business who added it or with CIFAS. I am looking here at whether Lloyds made 
a mistake or acted unfairly in closing his accounts. 
I know Mr G will be very disappointed when I say that I dont think it did and so I wont be 
asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman