DRN-3780089
The complaint
Mr L complains he was the victim of an investment scam and that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
didnt do enough to protect that from happening or to help him get his money back.
What happened
Mr L was approached by someone claiming to be an investment broker who encouraged him 
to pay £109,780.44 to three separate investment companies who Ill refer to as S, F and 
I. Between 1st March 2017 and 6th December 2017, Mr L made a total of fourteen card 
payments using his Visa debit card and three online transfers. During this time, he received 
eight refunds totalling £8,785.57. 
 
On 31st August 2017, Mr L was granted a loan by Barclays which he used to fund the 
investments. Applying for the loan, he said the money was for home improvements.
He realised hed been the victim of a scam when he was unable to access the funds. When 
he complained to Barclays, it said that as the complaint wasnt raised until 11 September 
2018, there were no grounds to challenge under Visas chargeback scheme as the 
transactions were to support trading, the dispute would need to be raised within 120 days.
Mr L wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He believes Barclays should 
have undertaken research which would have uncovered warnings and bad reviews about the 
companies hed paid. He also said his health had deteriorated and the experience had 
caused him to suffer from insomnia and nightmares. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He explained the Visa chargeback 
rules didnt cover investment trading that took place before 14 October 2017 and as the 
disputed payments occurred before that date, Barclays could only have raised a chargeback 
claim if Mr L had written evidence of the broker promising returns which were not received, 
which he didnt have.
But he noted Mr L had called Barclays to verify that his broker held an account with Barclays 
and as there was an FCA warning about S at that time, it had missed a chance to intervene 
and warn him about the risk of fraud. Mr L had also spoken to Barclays after he was blocked 
from transferring £25,000 online on 31 August, having successfully applied for a loan for the 
same amount earlier the same day. He thought Barclays didnt ask enough questions during 
that call about who Mr L was paying and that, if it had, it couldve prevented further loss. So, 
he felt Barclays should refund the money Mr L lost after this point. 
Our investigator explained that, once the refunds of £4,141.97 had been deducted from the 
full amount of £102,782.93, this left a total of £98,640.96 to be refunded (including £545.82 
in fees). But he also felt there should be a 30% reduction for contributory negligence 
because Mr L was told to lie on his loan application by the broker and he thought this 
shouldve been a red flag, as a legitimate business wouldnt do that. He also said hed 
listened to a call dated 6 September 2017, where Mr L had contacted Barclays to borrow a 
further £10,000. During the call Mr L was asked about the money hed already borrowed, 
and he said hed already sent the money to the builders. 
Mr L didnt think a reduction for contributory negligence on the full amount was fair, 
suggesting the reduction should only apply to the loan amount of £25,000. 
Barclays has said it would accept our investigators recommendation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess 
Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card 
issuer (i.e. Barclays) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to 
present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr L).
As the Visa chargeback rules didnt cover investment trading that took place before 14 
October 2017 Barclays could only have raised a chargeback claim if Mr L had written 
evidence of the broker promising returns which were not received, which he didnt have. So, 
Im satisfied Barclays decision not to raise a Chargeback request in respect of the card 
payments that pre-dated 14th October 2017 was fair.
Regarding the four card payments Mr L made after 14th October 2017, as this was an 
investment trading dispute, the only applicable misrepresentation option for Barclays would 
have been if he was unable to withdraw available funds. But its not just enough to be unable 
to withdraw available funds, Mr L would have needed to have provided dated evidence that 
he had funds available in his account on the day he requested them. I dont see that he had 
this evidence and therefore, I dont think there was a reasonable chance of a chargeback 
succeeding, so Barclays not raising a request is a reasonable exercise of its discretion.
Should Barclays refund any money?
There was a warning in respect of S dated 12th June 2017. And a warning in respect of F 
dated 12th May 2018. So, Im satisfied this was a scam. 
Although Mr L didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did authorise the disputed 
payments. Barclays is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make. But, where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Barclays has an obligation to intervene where there is a fraud or scam and these payments 
were part of a wider scam. In these circumstances, what we would expect Barclays to have 
done to protect Mr L is restricted to triggers, meaning I need to consider whether the 
transactions were so unusual that Barclays ought to have intervened to warn Mr L when he 
tried to make the payments.
Barclays, along with other payment services providers, should be monitoring accounts and 
be on the lookout for unusual transactions or other signs of fraud. Ive considered the nature 
of the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr L normally ran his account and I agree with our investigator that the first four payments, which 
were made using his Visa debit card between 1st March and 30th May, were not suspicious 
or unusual for the spending on the account. 
However, on 31 August, Mr L tried to make an online transfer of £25,000, and Barclays did 
block the payment. But, in the two subsequent calls he had with Barclays, neither call 
handler asked Mr L any questions about the payment. Had they made any enquiries, Im 
satisfied he would have told them he was investing, having volunteered that S was the 
recipient. And I think further questioning would have possibly uncovered the fact hed been 
advised to lie in the loan application. Had this happened, Mr L would have been told to do 
some research on S and, based on the fact hed previously been the victim of a scam and 
had tried to check up on the broker before, Im confident hed have done so. 
In these circumstances I think its likely Mr L would have discovered there was an FCA 
warning about S, at which point I think its likely hed have reconsidered his decision to go 
ahead with the payments. Having found that Barclays could have intervened to prevent Mr 
Ls losses from 31 August, I think it should refund £103,001 (which is the total of the 
payments (including fees) Mr L made from 31 August onwards, less the refunds he received 
after that date).
Contributory Negligence
Our investigator has recommended a 30% reduction to the settlement for contributory 
negligence based on the fact Mr L lied when he applied for the loan. Regardless of how he 
obtained the loan money, the question for me to consider is whether he went ahead with the 
payments in the face of information or evidence that should have made him stop to consider 
whether this was a scam. 
When Mr L was asked by the broker to give false information on his loan application I think 
this should reasonably have led him to question whether the broker was operating a scam. I 
also think he should reasonably have considered the investment could be a scam when 
considering the fact he was promised huge returns and whether this was plausible, 
especially as had previously fallen victim to a scam and would have known there were risks.
I accept this was a sophisticated scam and the broker had clearly earned Mr Ls trust. But, 
hed made the first payment in March 2017 and had plenty of time to reflect on what he was 
told and, in the circumstances I think it wouldve been reasonable to have made some 
additional checks on the broker.
I appreciate Mr L had made enquiries with the bank and he had also made significant 
withdrawals which would have given him some confidence the investment was genuine, but 
in the circumstances, I think he couldve done more to protect himself, so I think 30% 
reduction to the settlement is fair.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay:
£98,640.96 for disputed payments (including fees) made between 31st August 2017 
and 6th December 2018.
this settlement should be reduced by 30% to reflect contributory negligence.
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.*If Barclays Bank UK PLC deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it 
should provide Mr L with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman