DRN-3417570
The complaint
Mr E complains about Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA)s handling of his Home Emergency 
Insurance claim.
All references to IPA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
From looking at the timeline of events, I can see Mr E experienced several issues 
regarding IPAs handling of the claim. The wrong part was ordered twice, and this 
was only resolved by the third plumber going to get the part from another supplier. 
There were also delays in Plumbers attending the property and the leak being fixed.
Mr E said the leak was noticed by his tenant when water started dripping down the 
walls, and at this point there was minimal water damage.
Mr E said IPA failed to identify the leak on its first two visits. And when a third 
plumber attended to fit a new part, the ceiling fell through while he was working. Mr E 
said if the leak had been repaired on the first two visits, he wouldnt have needed to 
replace the ceiling. Mr E said this also resulted in him incurring other costs and 
having to reduce the rent.
Ive not seen anything that shows the extent of the leak or the related saturation prior 
to the visit from the first plumber. And It is not clear when the leak originally started. 
However, Ive reviewed photos of the ceiling. It shows water marks and staining over 
a large area.
Given the apparent extent of the leak its more likely this would have been something 
that occurred over a long period of time. Considering the location of the boiler and 
the leak, the repairs described are not uncommon in these types of circumstances.
So, on a balance of probabilities, I think its more likely than not the escape of water 
started some time before Mr Es tenant noticed the water dripping down the walls, 
after the ceiling and insulation became saturated. 
So, while I do agree there were delays in IPA fixing the leak, Im not persuaded its 
responsible for the damage caused by the escape of water  so I wont be directing 
IPA to cover these, or the subsequent costs Mr E incurred. 
IPA offered Mr E £350 compensation. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances 
as this fairly reflects the inconvenience caused by the delays and its handling of 
Mr Es claim.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman