DRN-3728888
The complaint
Mr W complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has unfairly declined his travel insurance 
claim.
For ease, any reference to Great Lakes also includes its agents.
What happened
Mr W booked a trip abroad, departing the UK on 28 November 2021. A few days before his 
trip, Mr W took out an annual multi trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by Great Lakes. 
On 28 November 2021, Mr W travelled to the airport as planned. When he arrived, he was 
informed by the airline staff that he may not be able to travel due to restrictions on entry to 
the country he was due to be travelling to. Approximately 20 minutes before his flight, Mr W 
received a message from the airline to say that he wasnt allowed to fly due to these new 
restrictions. As a result, Mr W cancelled his trip and made a claim to Great Lakes.
Great Lakes declined his claim as it said that the claim fell outside the scope of the policy. 
Mr W complained, stating he had purchased additional cover under the policy called 
European FCDO Travel Advice extension and so he should be covered for this scenario. 
But Great Lakes didnt agree and said that the policy only covered cancellation for certain 
reasons.
Unhappy this outcome, Mr W brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. She found that the policy didnt provide cover 
for the cancellation of the trip due to these circumstances. And in relation to the extension 
option purchased, she said this only provided cover if you continued with your travels to a 
country where the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) had advised 
against all or all but essential travel. She said it wasnt FCDO advice against travel that 
prevented him from travelling but new restrictions brought in by the foreign government. She 
didnt agree that this extension to the policy provided cover in this situation.
Mr W disagreed with our investigator. As no agreement could be reached, the matter has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W was unable to take his flight as a result of the airline stating that new restrictions were 
put in place for non-nationals arriving in the country he was flying to. So, essentially the 
airline wasnt allowing any UK nationals to travel to that destination. This caused him to 
cancel his trip.
The policy includes a section for the cancellation of a trip. Within this section it lists the 
reasons for which it will provide cover if it is necessary to cancel travel plans. The covered 
reasons are:
a) you, a close relative, travelling companion or any person with whom you have 
arranged to stay during the trip suffers unforeseen illness, injury or, death.
b) you abandon your trip following a delay of more than 12 hours to the departure of 
your outward trip that is covered within Section 5 Travel Delay.
c) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called for Jury Service or being 
summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional or advisory 
capacity).
d) you being made redundant, provided you qualify for a redundancy payment under 
current legislation applicable within your home country.
e) your presence is required by the Police because of accidental damage, burglary, 
flooding or fire which has affected your home, and has occurred within 48 hours 
before the start of your trip, when the damage is in excess of £1,500.
f) the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office issue a directive advising 
against all, or all but essential travel to your trip destination because of an 
earthquake, fire, flood, or hurricane.
It is clear that the cause of Mr Ws cancelled trip isnt one of the reasons detailed in the 
policy for which Great Lakes will provide cover and therefore Im persuaded the decision to 
refuse the claim under this section is fair and reasonable. 
But even if the cancellation of the trip had been caused by one of these reasons, Im also 
aware that there is a specific exclusion under this section which states the policy will not 
cover any claim relating to prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country, or 
delay or amendment of the booked trip due to Government action. As the reason for Mr W 
not being able to travel was given as the restrictions placed on non-nationals travelling to 
that destination, Im persuaded this exclusion would apply.
Mr W has stated that he took out additional cover when purchasing the policy  called the 
European FCDO Travel Advice Extension  so he thinks he should be covered. I can see 
that this extension provides cover for travel to certain European countries if the FCDO has 
advised against all, or all but essential travel, to that country. Having looked at the travel 
advice that was in place at that time, it appears that the FCDO hadnt advised against travel 
to the country Mr W was flying to. The information provided on the FCDO website only 
details the restrictions that were put in place by the foreign government. And from reviewing 
those foreign government restrictions, it seems that non-nationals could still travel to that 
country, however, they would need to quarantine upon arrival. As there wasnt FCDO advice 
against all or all but essential travel to this destination, Im not persuaded this extension 
provides any cover for Mr Ws particular circumstances.
Ive also looked at the remainder of the policy wording to see if there were any other sections 
which would consider Mr Ws claim, but the circumstances he found himself in dont appear 
to fall within any of the other sections of cover provided. Taking everything into account, I 
dont think Mr Ws claim is covered under the policy terms and conditions, nor are there 
reasonable grounds upon which it would be fair for me to ask Great Lakes to accept this claim. Im therefore not persuaded that Great Lakes needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman