DRN-3293542
The complaint
Mr M complains about Zopa Limiteds (Zopa) role in facilitating a finance agreement
between him and a third party.
What happened
I set out what happened leading up to and in the course of Mr Ms complaint in my 
provisional decision, which I issued earlier this year. To make this decision easier to read 
though I will go through this background again here.
In January 2017 Mr M entered into a finance agreement. Under this agreement Mr M 
borrowed the sum of £10,000 to be paid back over a period of 48 months. The monthly 
repayments were £306.93.
Zopa is not a lender in this complaint. Rather it operated an electronic system in relation to 
lending which Mr M used to find a lender. In other words, it provided a platform to facilitate 
lending between Mr M and the lender who ultimately lent to him. This lender is a third party 
who I will call P. P is not a party to this complaint.
Mr M has said this about his complaint between February 2016 to February 2017 I was in 
the grip of a crippling gambling addiction. I was able to borrow within that period over 
£50,000 [from various lenders]. I believe I should never have been able to borrow the money 
I did, and it was irresponsible lending on behalf of those companies. One of which was Zopa 
[it] must have been able to do appropriate checks and see what was happening. 
Mr M has brought separate complaints about the other companies who he holds responsible 
for his situation. However, I am not looking at those other separate individual complaints in 
this decision. 
Further, as a consequence of what Mr Ms sees as the irresponsible actions of Zopa, in
facilitating his finance agreement with P, Mr M says he experienced a number of adverse
events. He indicates he was already having money trouble before January 2017 but after 
this due in part, to this new lending he experienced financial difficulties. These financial 
difficulties, in his opinion, then led to him entering into an Individual Voluntary Arrangement 
(IVA) with some of his creditors. The finance agreement with P was covered by the IVA. 
Moreover, Mr M mentions almost losing his home and the ending of his marriage which he 
also attributes, in part, to the money he was able to borrow and then gambled away. 
Mr M seeks compensation for what he views as the impact of the borrowing, which Zopa 
facilitated, on his life which he describes as being catastrophic.
Mr M complained to Zopa about all of this.
In response Zopa said that Mr M had made his application online. Zopa added that it 
assumes that those who apply to use its service are providing correct information. Zopa 
talked about the criteria which it used to assess Mr Ms application, it described this criteria
as being very strict. It explained, that amongst other things, its assessment criteria takes
account of information from credit reference agencies, historic debt, and debt to income
ratios.
Zopa pointed out that when it checked Mr Ms financial standing it found he had missed no
payments and neither had he paid late in the previous 12 months in relation to any of his
pre-existing debts. Moreover, he had told it, that the purpose of the finance agreement was 
to consolidate his pre-existing debts, which it suggested seemed plausible in the 
circumstances.. Further, he was in long-term employment and when it looked at what his 
disposable income was based on the information it had, it seemed Mr M could sustain the 
monthly repayments. However, it did not look at the statements for any of Mr Ms bank 
accounts. But then again it does not agree that it needed to. Moreover, it did not agree that 
there was anything in the details of Mr Ms financial history, which it had access to, which 
suggested he was engaging in problem gambling.
For all of these reasons Zopa does not agree that its actions in helping Mr M obtain the 
finance agreement were inappropriate. Rather, it suggests it did appropriate checks before it 
introduced Mr M to P. Moreover, it does not agree that in the circumstances it ought 
reasonably to have been aware of Mr Ms gambling.
Dissatisfied, Mr M came to our service.
I looked into Mr Ms complaint. I issued my provisional decision. Here is what I said about 
what Id decided, and why:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what
I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Why I dont think Zopa met its obligations when it came to the checks it carried out
When Zopa operated an electronic system in relation to lending by P to Mr M under a peer- 
to-peer agreement (P2P agreement), it was a regulated firm. This meant it had to follow the 
relevant regulations at the time for this activity. The regulations in January 2017 were 
different to the current regulations, it is those regulations that were current in January 2017 
that I am referring to here.
In brief, under those regulations Zopa had to make sure it carried out an assessment of the 
creditworthiness of the prospective borrower, that is Mr M. In particular, it had to consider the 
potential for the commitments under the P2P agreement to adversely impact the prospective 
borrowers financial situation, taking into account the information of which the business was 
aware at the time the P2P agreement was to be made. It also had to take account of the 
prospective borrowers ability to make repayments in a sustainable manner for the entire 
duration of the agreement.Further, Zopa had to carry out other regulatory obligations to the same extent as if it was the 
lender. In particular, amongst other things, it had to put in place clear and effective policies 
and procedures to make a reasonable creditworthiness assessment. Zopa was obliged to 
take account of relevant information when making this assessment. Moreover, it needed to 
take steps to ensure that information was complete and correct. In addition, it needed to give 
the prospective borrower the opportunity to see any information that was included in an 
application for the agreement if the prospective borrower did not fill in this information 
themselves. The extent and scope of the assessment had to be dependent upon and 
proportionate to factors which might have included:
The type of credit
The amount of credit
The cost of credit
The financial position of the prospective borrower at the time of seeking the credit.
Also, Zopa was also obliged to take account of obligations that were relevant to lenders 
(even though it was not a lender) and use that as guidance. The guidance indicated amongst 
other things, the factors it might consider when deciding if its assessment was proportionate.
Mr M was seeking thousands of pounds of unsecured credit (£10,000 as I have already 
mentioned) over a relatively long term (48 months, as I said before) under a type of an 
agreement that placed significant responsibilities on him, and which would leave him facing 
significant potential consequences if he failed to meet his obligations to make repayments. 
Moreover, Zopa was aware that Mr M was also servicing various pre-existing debts prior to 
his application. The total amount of that pre-existing debt is not clear but in the twelve 
months prior to taking out the finance agreement with P, the information we have seen 
shows Mr M took on around £33,000 of unsecured new debt. In these circumstances I think 
it would have been proportionate to look at Mr Ms actual income and outgoings as part of 
the creditworthiness assessment and the assessment of Mr Ms ability to repay any new 
borrowing in a sustainable manner. I also think it would have been proportionate given the
size and timing of the credit that Mr M had taken out in the last twelve months to ask further
questions about this borrowing.
I appreciate that Zopa tells us it tested what Mr M told it through independent means, but it
has not told us what it did to check this in detail. Rather it has indicated that the check it did
showed that it was likely that Mr M had given it correct information about his income. But it
has not explained how that check worked or how it established that it was likely Mr M had
given accurate information. Zopa did not check Mr Ms outgoings, it would appear, so it is 
hard to see how it could have known, with any degree of certainty, that Mr Ms outgoings 
were at such a level that he still had enough income to make the repayments.
Moreover, the level of long-term new debt that Mr M took out in the twelve months
immediately before Mr M came to Zopa for yet more finance might reasonably have caused
it to ask more about Mr Ms financial situation. I accept that Zopa might have seen that Mr M
had paid off a substantial amount of credit card debt. This credit card debt appears though to
have been older debt. And Mr M was taking on more and more new debt, (but not the
£50,000) figure Mr M tells us about but still tens of thousands of pounds in new debt. The
upshot of this was his overall borrowing, on the face of it, appears to have to have been
increasing rapidly which does not fit with the profile of a person who is trying to consolidate
and ultimately paydown debt.It may be the case that Mr M had not missed payments or made late payments to his pre-
existing debt in the 12 months prior to taking out the finance agreement with P. That does
not necessarily mean Mr M was maintaining these repayments in a sustainable manner.
Indeed, Mr M suggests he was very much in a robbing Peter to pay Paul situation. The
timing and the amount of Mr Ms new debt suggests this was so. In any event, at the very
least I find a reasonable operator of an electronic system in relation to lending under a P2P 
agreement would have asked more about this aspect of Mr Ms financial life.
For all of these reasons I dont think that Zopa went far enough [with its assessment] and it 
follows that I dont think it met its obligations to Mr M in this instance.
Affordability
That being said, it would not fair or reasonable to say Zopa had to take the corrective action
Mr M asks for, just on the basis of what I have found above. Rather, I have to also be
satisfied that if Zopa had taken all the steps it should have done it would have found that Mr
M could not afford borrow under the P2P agreement with P or that it would have realised it
was irresponsible to introduce him to a lender for some other reason. To this end I have
taken a look at the information I have got about Mr Ms wider financial situation at the time
that he made his application to Zopa.
As far as I am aware, Mr M had a current account, a sole current account and a joint
current account, no savings accounts, and a joint mortgage account. I only have information
about Mr Ms sole current account. The difficulty for Mr M here is that in order to make a
finding about his financial situation at the relevant time and whether the finance was
affordable, I would need information about his joint account[s] too. I dont have that 
information. Moreover, normally, if lending is unaffordable Id expect to see that the 
consumer missed his initial payments. I have seen nothing to suggest this is the case here. It 
follows I can make no finding therefore that the lending that Zopa facilitated was not 
affordable.
Irresponsible lending
However, Mr M suggests that his complaint is primarily about irresponsible lending due to his
problem gambling, rather than about affordability. Even a cursory examination of the
information I have about Mr Ms sole current account shows that he was gambling.
Moreover, I think given the degree and impact of the gambling that gambling fits the broad
definition of problem gambling i.e. gambling that was disruptive or damaging to Mr M. Im
satisfied that if Zopa had done all the checks it should have done it would have seen this and 
I am also satisfied that neither Zopa nor any responsible firm carrying out the regulated
activity that Zopa was carrying out would have progressed Mr Ms application in these
circumstances.
Redress
When I look at redress I cant look at the situation in isolation rather I have to look at the
wider overall picture. In this particular instance that means I have to look at the redress that
Mr M has already had in order to decide what redress, if any, Zopa ought fairly be asked to
pay.
Generally, this service would say that if a consumer had the use of the capital he should
have to pay it back. This is the approach I think is fair and reasonable in this particular
instance. Even if, as here, the consumer, Mr M says that he gambled all the money away.However, under the terms of the IVA it appears that Mr M was treated as having settled the
debt even though from the information I have seen, Mr M short settled the debt. That is P
accepted much less than it was owed. Zopa has told us Mr M paid approximately £1,535
towards his debt. It is not clear if this figure was the amount of capital he repaid, or the
amount Mr M paid overall. Either way, on the face of it he has already had a substantial
discount towards the capital he had to pay off. When I take into account the overall situation 
I dont agree it is fair or reasonable to say that in addition to this Zopa ought to refund any 
interest and charges that Mr M paid in relation to the P2P agreement, plus interest on that 
refund.
If there was any negative information on Mr Ms credit file about the finance agreement, I
would say it is fair and reasonable that Zopa must help Mr A in asking the lender to remove
this information. Also, and if necessary, I would also say it is fair and reasonable that Zopa
must help Mr M in registering a notice of correction on his credit file. But, as far as I am
aware, the P2P agreement has been marked as settled. If this is not the case I will look 
again at this point in my next decision. But to manage Mr Ms expectations, Zopa is not the 
debt owner so it cannot tell the credit reference agencies to change the information it [(the 
debt owner)] might have registered about the finance agreement. To be clear marking a debt 
as settled is not negative information
I invited both Mr M and Zopa to respond to my provisional decision should they wish to do 
so. As far as I am aware we have received no response from Zopa. Mr M did respond to 
reject the provisional decision. In summary, Mr M thanked us for my provisional decision. Mr 
M explained how emotionally difficult it has been and still is, to deal with his complaint and 
why that was. In addition, Mr M suggested the way Zopa went about its assessment before 
lending to him was inappropriate. He rejected what Zopa had told us about him indicating to 
it that he wanted the P2P agreement to consolidate debts. He suggested he had no realistic 
prospect of ever being able to repay the P2P agreement, at the time he took it out.
Further, Mr M reiterated points he had made before about why he blames Zopa, amongst 
others, for the adverse events in his life. He repeated that his parents made the payment 
that settled his IVA.
Mr M mentioned his credit file from 2018 of which we have a copy. He told us that Zopa had 
registered a default against his account and he wanted this removed. He underlined he 
wants his voice to be heard and his concerns understood.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr M for his very candid response to my provisional decision. And I dont 
underestimate how upsetting he has found it to go over a period of his personal history that 
he finds painful. We would not have asked about any of this if had not been strictly 
necessary to investigate his complaint. I also can well understand why he wants his voice 
heard and his concerns understood, he is entitled to expect that from this service. I wish to 
reassure him I have heard his voice and thought about his concerns, just as I have done for 
Zopa. 
Ive reviewed the complete file again thought about what Mr M has said in response to my 
provisional decision and revisited my provisional decision.It has been particularly helpful that Mr M took the time to set out his view on the reasoning 
and the redress which I proposed in my provisional decision, so that I have been able to gain 
a fuller understanding of his position and concerns.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr M has suggested that Zopas pre lending assessment was flawed. I also 
take on board that Mr M tells us he did not tell Zopa that the purpose of taking out the P2P 
agreement was for debt consolidation. These points go to whether Zopa assessment went 
far enough. However, I have already found in my provisional decision that Zopa did not carry 
out a proportionate assessment, based on sufficient information, of whether Mr M could 
afford to repay the P2P agreement with P in a sustainable manner. In addition, I also found 
that it was irresponsible of Zopa to pass Mr Ms details to P so it could lend to him. It 
appears both parties now accept those findings. This means I dont have to revisit these 
points.
I dont doubt that it was very tough indeed for Mr M when his marriage broke down, he 
almost lost his house and he entered into the IVA. Although I just dont have enough detail 
about any of this especially the reason for entering into the IVA to be able to say that is fair 
or reasonable to say Zopa caused these events and therefore Zopa must take responsibility 
for the impact of these events on Mr M.
Moreover, it remains the case that Mr M was able to short settle the debt with Zopa and 
therefore Mr M did not ever pay off a substantial part of the capital. It does not help his 
position that his parents settled the IVA because this means a third party (by which I mean 
his parents) not he made the financial loss. I say this because nothing Mr M tells me 
suggests he repaid his parents. I dont say this to upset Mr M still further, far from it. But I 
must look at the whole picture when deciding what redress is appropriate.
I can see that a default and late/missed payments have been marked on Mr Ms credit file in 
relation to the P2P agreement. I find as I did in my provisional decision that it is fair and 
reasonable that Zopa must do want it reasonably can to get this information removed. The 
difficulty here is that P is the lender not Zopa, as far as I am aware only P can ask the credit 
reference agencies to remove this information. P is not a party to this complaint so I cant 
require it to do anything. But I think Zopa must take reasonable steps to help Mr M ask P to 
do this. Further, if Mr M wants to add a notice of correction to his credit file, for example to 
give details about the findings in this decision Zopa must help him to do that too. Zopa must 
reimburse the costs Mr M incurs with the credit reference agencies (if any) in getting this 
done. Once the information has been updated Zopa must also reimburse Mr M for the costs 
he has to pay the credit reference agencies to get a copy of his credit file. This is so he can 
see what his up-to-date credit file says without having to ultimately pay for this himself.
It follows that I have come to the same conclusions for the same reasons as I set out in my 
provisional decision and also for the additional reasons I have set out in this final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that Zopa Limited must take reasonable steps to assist Mr M to ask P to 
ask the credit reference agencies to remove the negative information it has asked them to 
register on Mr Ms credit file about the P2P agreement. It must also help Mr M if he wants to 
add a notice of correction about the agreement to his credit file. Zopa Limited must 
reimburse Mr M for any costs he incurs with the credit reference agencies in getting this 
done. Once the credit file information has been updated it must also reimburse Mr M for any costs he incurs with the credit reference agencies in order to obtain a copy of his up-to-date 
credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman