DRN-2767332
The complaint
Mr M complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) acted irresponsibly 
by granting him loans that were unaffordable. 
What happened
In November 2017 Mr M took out a loan for £3,000 with Likely Loans. The loan was to be 
repaid over 24 months with the repayments set at £196.58 a month.
 
In November 2019 Likely Loans granted him a top up loan. The amount borrowed was 
£2,886.11 to be paid in 24 monthly instalments of £189.12.
Mr M later complained that loans were unaffordable for him. He thought it was irresponsible 
of Likely Loans to lend to him. He says he was never asked for proof of income and he had 
lots of other outstanding loans when he was given the second loan. Likely Loans should 
have realised the loans were unaffordable if it had done proper checks.
Likely Loans said it had considered Mr Ms income, credit history and monthly creditor 
commitments when he applied for the loans and determined the lending was affordable to 
him. 
Mr M remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. I issued a provisional 
decision on 19 March 2021 where I explained why I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required Likely Loans to carry out reasonable 
and proportionate checks to ensure Mr M could afford to repay the loans in a sustainable 
manner.  
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for Likely Loans to think only 
about the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the 
repayments wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for him.
 
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
Mr M has accepted our investigators view that the first loan was lent responsibly. So, Ive 
focused my decision on what happened when Likely Loans granted the second loan.
Likely Loans says Mr M provided details of his income and residential status when he 
applied for the loan. Mr M said he was living with his parents when he applied for the first 
loan in November 2017. Likely Loans says it assumed this was still the case when he 
applied for the second loan as Mr Ms residential status had not changed. 
Mr M gave his income as £38,000 when he took out the second loan in November 2019.    
Mr M says Likely Loans should have asked him for proof of income. But I think it was 
reasonable for Likely Loans to have relied on the information Mr M had provided as being 
accurate.
 
Likely Loans doesnt appear to have asked Mr M any questions about his expenditure when 
he applied for the loans. It says it used data from the office of national statistics to determine 
average living expenses before approving the second loan. This worked out to be £990.96 
and it also added a buffer of £50. I think Likely Loans should have asked Mr M for 
information about his expenditure. But I havent seen anything that suggests Likely Loans 
expenditure estimate was unreasonable. 
Likely Loans says it also reviewed Mr Ms credit report as part of its credit assessment. The 
information its provided from the point of application only appears to be a brief summary. 
This summary (from November 2019) says Mr M had an existing debt payment size of 
£1,085.42, with more than nine active credit accounts. Likely Loans has also provided a 
more detailed credit history from June 2020 (around seven months after the loan 
application). Ive also taken this into account as it might provide some insight into what else 
Likely Loans would have (or perhaps should have) known about Mr Ms indebtedness at the 
point of application.
 
Mr M says he took out around eight pay day loans in the three months leading up to his loan 
application. But not all of these appear even on the more detailed credit check Likely Loans 
has provided. So, I dont think even a more thorough check would have shown a complete 
picture of Mr Ms circumstances.
Mr M says he was in a cycle of debt and Likely Loans should have seen from his credit file 
that his lending pattern was out of control and he was relying on loans. I can see that Mr M 
took out several payday loans in the period between taking out his first loan with Likely 
Loans and the second one. But I can also see he was maintaining his payments on his 
existing loans. I dont think Mr Ms borrowing history in itself should have led Likely Loans to 
conclude that he would have to borrow further to make the new loan repayments.
Im not persuaded the checks Likely Loans carried out were proportionate. It didnt ask Mr M 
for details of his expenditure and its unclear from the information provided whether Likely 
Loans reviewed Mr Ms credit file in detail. But, on balance, I think proportionate checks 
would still have suggested the loan was affordable and sustainable for Mr M. So, even 
though Likely Loans didnt do enough to assess the affordability of the loan, I dont think the 
lending itself was irresponsible. 
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond with any further information or comments they 
wanted me to consider before I reached my final decision.
Responses
Likely Loans didnt provide any further comments or information for me to consider.
Mr M said he agreed the first loan was given correctly but disagreed that the second one 
was. He said he was taking out lots of loans and was using his overdraft at the time the loan 
was granted. He provided screenshots of extracts of his bank statements from July to 
November 2019 to show payments he was making to multiple lenders. He said he was 
struggling to make payments and relied on loans. His loan amounts and number of loans 
increased each month, showing he was in a cycle of debt. 
Mr M said Likely Loans never asked him for proof of income or expenditure costs. If it had 
done this, with the information hes provided, he believes it would have seen the loan was 
not affordable and it was putting him into more debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I explained that I didnt think Likely Loans checks were sufficient 
because it didnt ask Mr M any questions about his expenditure and it was unclear if it had 
looked at his credit file in detail. 
If Mr M was able to show that his living expenses (aside from his existing credit 
commitments) were much higher than the £990.96 Likely Loans had estimated them to be, it 
might have made a difference to the outcome of his complaint. But Mr M hasnt provided 
anything to suggest that Likely Loans estimate was unreasonable. 
While its not clear if Likely Loans looked at Mr Ms credit file in detail at the time the loan 
was agreed, Ive considered the information it extracted from the credit file at that time 
alongside the more detailed credit report (run in June 2020). Likely Loans worked out that  
Mr Ms repayment commitments to other creditors were £1,085.42 and Im satisfied this was 
a fair reflection of what would have appeared on Mr Ms credit file at the time. There were 
also no recent defaults or county court judgments and Mr M appeared to be up to date with 
his repayments on his existing debt. So, I dont think there was anything that should have 
given Likely Loans cause for concern or prompted it to carry out further checks. 
I appreciate Mr M had payday loans that didnt appear on his credit file. But I dont think 
reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended to Likely Loans asking to see 
copies of Mr Ms bank statements at the time. So, I havent been able to consider the 
screenshots Mr M has sent me in my decision.  
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr M, but the additional information hes provided 
hasnt made a difference to the conclusion Ive reached. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman