DRN-2887799
The complaint
Mr I complained that Nationwide Building Society lent irresponsibly when providing him with 
a credit card and then increasing the credit limit soon afterwards.  
What happened
Mr I applied for a Nationwide credit card online in March 2014. His application showed he 
was earning £19,100 a year. Nationwide provided the card with a limit of £2,500 initially and 
approved Mr Is request to increase the credit limit to £3,100 in August 2014. 
In 2020 Mr I complained to Nationwide. He said it had lent to him irresponsibly both at the 
time of the initial credit card application and when it increased the credit limit a few months 
later. He felt Nationwide was responsible (along with other lenders) for him falling into debt. 
Nationwide responded to say it had checked Mr Is credit history at the time of his application 
and that he met its lending criteria for the credit card. It said it carried out checks again 
before increasing the credit limit. Nationwide said Mr I agreed to the fees and charges being 
applied should he fall into arrears, which he eventually did. Nationwide didnt uphold his 
complaint.
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mr I complained to us. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and recommended that it should be upheld. They believed Nationwide shouldnt 
have offered Mr I the credit card, or the subsequent credit limit increase. Thats because it 
didnt carry out proper checks regarding his ability to sustainably repay the credit and, if it 
had, Nationwide would have discovered the lending was unaffordable for him. The 
investigator said that, to put things right for Mr I, Nationwide should pay him the interest, 
charges and fees incurred from the start of the credit, and add 8% simple interest a year on 
any positive balance that left him with. They said that any adverse information recorded with 
any credit reference agencies regarding the credit should be removed and any debt recalled 
from relevant third parties.    
Mr I accepted the investigators findings. But Nationwide didnt, saying it had carried out 
appropriate credit checks and so hadnt lent irresponsibly. As a result, the complaint was 
passed to me to review afresh.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this in deciding Mr Is complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if Nationwide treated Mr I 
fairly and reasonably when it provided him with the credit card. These include:
1) Did Nationwide complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr I would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way? 
2) If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
3) Ultimately, did Nationwide make a fair lending decision?  
4) Did Nationwide act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ill consider each of these in turn.
Did Nationwide complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr I 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way? 
Despite what our investigator suggested in their initial assessment, Nationwide wasnt 
required to follow the provisions set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Thats because those provisions didnt come into effect until just 
after Mr I applied for the credit card in March 2014.  
Nevertheless, the rules that Nationwide had to follow at the time still required it to carry out 
checks that would enable it to reasonably assess whether Mr I could afford to repay the 
credit being offered. This is often referred to as an affordability assessment. 
 
The rules dont set out what specific checks Nationwide needed to carry out, but they did set 
out that those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I 
think what this meant in practice was that the scope and extent of Nationwides checks 
needed to reflect the nature of the lending, bearing in mind things such as the amount of 
credit, the interest rate, the monthly and total amounts repayable, and any indications of 
customer vulnerability.  
The checks Nationwide needed to carry out as part of its affordability assessment had to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this is that the checks needed to consider whether 
paying the credit back would cause Mr I any difficulties or have any adverse consequences 
for him. They would also need to take account of factors such as the amount of money being 
lent, the monthly repayments, total charge for the credit and the interest rate being charged. 
This isnt an exhaustive list. 
And as a result of the above, I think reasonable and proportionate checks needed to be 
more thorough if Mr I had a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult for 
him to meet the credit card repayments with a low income. 
Nationwide would also need to be more thorough the higher the amounts he had to repay, 
as it would be more difficult to make higher repayments depending on his income. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about whether Nationwide completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr I would be able to repay his credit card in a 
sustainable way.
In summary then, the circumstances of the credit card application are as follows:
Mr I was applying for the credit card which had an annual percentage rate (APR) of 
19.9%.
Mr I was recorded by Nationwide as having a yearly income of £19,100 when the credit 
card was taken out. The initial credit limit of £2,500 was relatively high when compared with Mr Is stated 
earnings (although Ill return to the issue of his earnings later). 
When Nationwide assessed Mr Is application in 2014 it used information provided by him as 
well as through checking some of his credit details via a credit rating agency. It said the 
checks showed, among other things, no evidence of over-indebtedness and that his 
disposable monthly income (DMI) was calculated as £1,334, which was enough to 
demonstrate to it that a credit limit of £2,500 was affordable for him. 
Im not clear as to how Mr Is DMI was calculated to be £1,334. The application recorded that 
Mr I was living with his parents, but its not known how much, if any, rent he was paying 
them or what his other expenditure was. But, given the credit limit represented a 
considerable amount, even if Nationwides DMI calculation was accurate, Im satisfied it 
should have carried out further checks before offering the credit to Mr I. 
I think this should have put Nationwide on notice that more borrower focussed checks would 
have been appropriate in the circumstances. This is especially so considering Nationwide 
wasnt aware of what other borrowing Mr I might have had at the time. 
Bearing all of this in mind I dont believe the checks Nationwide carried out when Mr I 
applied for the credit card were, on balance, proportionate.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
I think Nationwide should have ensured that the scope and extent of its checks were 
adapted to the circumstances of its offer to Mr I. A credit advance of £2,500 represented a 
relatively substantial extra financial burden. Given this, further checks would, in my opinion, 
have needed to verify his expenditure. These would have been in addition to the checks it 
carried out and establish that he was able to afford the credit. 
From Mr Is bank statements, I think additional checks by Nationwide would have brought to 
light that his account was consistently and significantly overdrawn in the period leading up to 
the credit card application. In fact, his overdraft limit was £3,000 and Mr I was very nearly at 
that limit when he applied for the Nationwide credit card.
Whats more, it seems Mr I had two other credit cards (with other lenders) when he 
approached Nationwide and owed a considerable amount on both. For example, copy 
statements show one credit card had a credit limit of £3,100 and Mr I was either just below 
or just above that limit in the months leading up to his application with Nationwide.
Mr Is credit file shows the other credit card had a limit of £2,500 in September 2014. I think 
its reasonable to assume the limit was the same or very similar when he applied to 
Nationwide in March 2014 and that, just as in September 2014 (and the months and years 
that immediately followed), he was either very nearly at or even over the limit at that time.
So, Mr Is overdraft, together with these two other credit card balances, meant in total its 
likely he already owed around £8,600. That was before adding the credit Nationwide agreed 
to provide to him.
Such high levels of debt when taking account of Mr Is stated income of £19,100 a year 
would have been cause for significant concern in themselves. But Mr Is bank statements 
also indicate his income was sporadic and, when received, amounted to less than hed 
declared to Nationwide when applying for the credit card. For example, the following wages 
were paid into his current account:December 2013  total £992
January 2014  total £ 736
February 2014  total £1,054
I think these were all signs that Mr I was already struggling financially by March 2014.
Did Nationwide make a fair lending decision?  
That Mr Is income appears to have been lower than he declared to Nationwide, his bank 
account was consistently overdrawn, and he was in debt in relation to two other credit cards, 
all indicate to me that he was struggling financially. 
I believe the indications are that borrower focussed checks by Nationwide would have 
highlighted that Mr Is financial situation was such that the credit he was offered was unlikely 
to be sustainably affordable for him.
For these reasons, I think that Nationwide should have realised in the circumstances that it 
was unlikely Mr I would have been able to cope with the credit it was offering and that it 
wasnt appropriate to lend to him.
Did Nationwide act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr I in some other way? 
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that Nationwide acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr I in some other way.  
Putting things right
Nationwide should put Mr I in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt been given the 
credit card, albeit hes had the benefit of the money borrowed and so will need to repay the 
principal amount. This means Nationwide will need to:
A. Refund any interest charged on the account plus all late payment and over limit fees. 
Any refund should be used to reduce the outstanding balance on the account. And it 
shouldnt apply any interest on any outstanding balance. 
B. If  when Nationwide works out what Mr I would have owed each month without the 
interest, charges and fees  he paid more than enough to clear his balance, 
Nationwide should also pay simple interest on the extra Mr I paid. And it should carry 
on paying interest until the point when Mr I would have owed Nationwide something on 
his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% simple a year.  
C. Nationwide should tell Mr I what its done to work out A and B. Nationwide should also 
remove any adverse information its recorded against Mr I on his credit file as a result 
of it offering the credit card account. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require Nationwide Building 
Society to put things right for Mr I as explained above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman