DRN-4008395
The complaint
Mr S complains Erudio Student Loans Limited have asked him to repay a debt he doesnt 
have with them  making him feel harassed and bullied into making payments.
What happened
Mr S has a number of loans taken out with a company Ill refer to as S, but now managed by 
Erudio. The terms of these loans allow Mr S to ask for a deferment if he meets certain 
criteria  one of which is income and earnings below a certain amount. The deferment would 
mean Mr S doesnt need to make payments to the loans. But when this isnt in place, the 
loan repayments become due. 
Mr S says he applied for a deferment in 2015, but it was incorrectly turned down. Hes said 
following this, Erudio have contacted him to ask him to repay the debt which he doesnt think 
is fair as the issue of his deferment hasnt been resolved  he also says the debt isnt with 
Erudio, its with S. Hes said this contact has caused him to feel harassed and bullied. Hes 
also unhappy Erudio defaulted the debt before he received an outcome to his concerns 
about the deferment with S.
Erudio said Mr S loans are ones where the deferment is managed by S. They said S had 
explained why the deferment didnt apply, which did then mean the payments were due. 
Erudio said as a result of Mr S not making payments, they then defaulted the accounts. 
Erudio added Mr S was told on 17 May 2016 about S not agreeing the deferment  and the 
default wasnt applied until 30 July 2016. So, they couldnt agree he hadnt been told about 
S decision before the default was registered. They also didnt agree theyd harassed or 
bullied him.
Unhappy with this Mr S asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so. He 
explained, in detail on several occasions, our service cant look into the actions of S. And, 
looking at Erudios actions, he felt theyd acted fairly.
Mr S didnt agree with this. In summary, he said:
There is still no explanation why Erudio defaulted the debt when no proper 
explanation for the lack of deferment had been given
The loan administrators had made a serious error because the terms and conditions 
arent clear
As Mr S didnt agree with the outcome the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain I cant look at the actions of S as they fall outside of our 
scope. That means I cant decide whether the deferment has or hasnt been dealt with 
correctly  nor can I decide whether its been communicated correctly or not. This also 
means I cant answer the questions in Mr S most recent email  as this asks about how S 
processes data. Our Investigator has previously given Mr S alternative routes to pursue his 
concerns regarding S.
This means there are three issues regarding Erudio I can consider:
Are they the legal owners of the debt
Have they acted fairly in defaulting the debt
Have they harassed or bullied Mr S in to making payments
Are Erudio the legal owners of the debt
Its common in lending such as loans for the provision to be included which says lenders can 
pass the debt on to another company.
Generally, a Notice of Assignment (NoA) would be sent at the time, confirming who the new 
owners were, and asking the individual to get in touch to make payment arrangements.
Ive not been provided a copy of the NoA which Id usually expect to see. But, I understand 
from the information provided the transfer took place in March 2014. So, given the timeframe 
I dont find it particularly unusual Erudio cant provide a copy of the information sent at the 
time  most financial businesses only keep records for six years.
With that in mind, I need to look at what I do have. Erudio have provided internal notes which 
reference letters, and different addresses for Mr S  this is in March and April 2014.
Erudio have been able to provide some letters issued in 2014 and 2015 regarding the debt. 
Specifically in November 2014 telling Mr S his deferment was coming to an end, February 
2015 saying he was in arrears, and an annual statement from September 2015. All of these 
have been issued by Erudio.
On balance, although I dont have the NoA, I think its likely it was issued at some point to 
Mr S. And, given what we know about the way these loans work, which again I can see our 
Investigator explained to Mr S, Im satisfied Erudio are the legal owners of this debt.
That means theyre entitled to ask for repayment of it and take other action the original 
lender may have  such as defaulting the account  if they think its appropriate. 
Have Erudio acted fairly in defaulting the debt
Mr S has said Erudio have acted unfairly in defaulting the debt because no proper 
explanation for not deferring it has been given.
Ive seen copies of emails between Mr S and S regarding the deferment. In one email dated 
29 April 2016 S explained theyd turned down the deferment correctly and wouldnt be 
changing this. This is following Mr S comments to them theyd turned down the deferment 
incorrectly and his explanations about why he thought that.
As a reminder, Im not deciding whether the deferment was turned down correctly. But its 
relevant context in seeing whether Erudio acted fairly. At this point, I think its reasonable for 
Erudio to think Mr S had raised his specific concerns with S, who didnt agree with them.So, because of the deferment being turned down, the loan repayments become due. To 
avoid the default being applied, Mr S needed to make the required repayments to the loan  
but Ive seen no evidence he did that.
I have seen information suggesting Erudio wrote out to Mr S letting him know he was behind 
in his repayments. Ive also seen Erudio knew he was disputing whether the deferment 
should or shouldnt have been in place. But, the key point here is S had told Mr S, on many 
occasions leading up to the default being applied in July 2016, the deferment had been 
turned down correctly.
As it was for S to make this decision, not Erudio, I think Erudio were entitled to rely on what 
S had decided. Effectively this was S decision only. So, by S deciding the deferment didnt 
apply, Mr S had to make the required repayments. And, when he didnt then Erudio followed 
the correct process to apply a default to his account.
In case this is useful information for Mr S, defaults usually only last for six years and then 
drop off someones credit file. Erudio have said the default date here is July 2016, so the 
default should have dropped off in July 2022.
Have Erudio harassed or bullied Mr S into making payments
Mr S has framed Erudios contact in asking him to repay the debt as harassing and bullying 
because he doesnt think he has to repay it.
I cant decide if Mr S has been harassed, as thats a legal issue which if Mr S wants to 
pursue hed need to take to court. But, in finding Erudio acted fairly in saying he does have 
to repay the debt, I cant reasonably say their requests asking him to do so is inappropriate 
or unfair. Ive also not seen anything in the evidence I do have to suggest Erudio have 
written or said anything inappropriate to Mr S when asking him to repay the debt.
Summary
Overall, Im satisfied Erudio are the legal owners of the debt, have fairly defaulted the debt, 
and havent acted unfairly when asking him to make repayments towards it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman