DRN-2851756
The complaint
Mr B complains Chetwood Financial Limited trading as LiveLend gave him an incorrect 
settlement figure to repay his personal loan early. Hes unhappy he was chased for the 
outstanding balance when he thought hed fully settled the loan. 
What happened
In April 2018, Mr B took out a fixed sum loan agreement with LiveLend. The amount 
borrowed was £4,000 and was to be repaid with interest over a period of two years.
In late February 2020, Mr B asked for a settlement figure on LiveLends online portal before 
paying the amount. He phoned LiveLend subsequently and asked why amount was still 
outstanding when he checked his online account. 
LiveLend said a contractual monthly payment had been due on the day Mr B obtained a 
settlement figure, and this wasnt included in that amount. At Mr Bs request, LiveLend sent 
him a loan statement which showed a balance was still outstanding.  
In May 2020, Mr B received an email from LiveLend which said his loan had been closed. 
In November 2020, LiveLend contacted Mr B again regarding the outstanding balance. He 
complained about being chased and said he was being penalised for its system errors, and 
this was impacting his credit rating. 
LiveLend said a months contractual payment was still outstanding and it had tried contacting 
Mr B to discuss repayment. It also said the email sent in May 2020 was automatically 
generated and it was sorry for any confusion caused. In relation to Mr Bs credit file, 
LiveLend said his account was in arrears and it had to report accurate information.
Mr B paid the outstanding balance in December 2020. He also referred the matter to our 
service. 
Our investigator agreed the loan hadnt been fully paid off in February 2020 as Mr B had 
intended. She thought he wasnt reasonably made aware the settlement figure didnt include 
the contractual monthly payment that was due that day. So, she recommended LiveLend to 
remove any negative information about that specific missed payment and also asked it to 
pay Mr B £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused him. But she 
didnt think it was fair to hold LiveLend responsible for any missed payments from March 
2020 onwards, or the impact these may have had on his credit file, as Mr B had the 
necessary information to verify there was still an outstanding balance when he received the 
loan statement in March 2020. 
Mr C accepted our investigators findings, but LiveLend didnt. It said it was happy to remove 
the February 2020 missed payment from Mr Bs credit file as a gesture of goodwill. But it 
didnt agree to paying compensation as it believed it hadnt treated him unfairly.
I issued my provisional decision in May 2021. I explained although LiveLend had already 
agreed to remove any adverse information relating to February 2020s missed contractual 
monthly payment, for the sake of completeness, I thought it didnt make it sufficiently clear to 
Mr B that any monthly payment already due wasnt included in the settlement figure. 
I explained while the information was set out under the FAQs section on its website, I didnt 
consider this alone to be enough. There was no mention of it in any of the loan 
documentation or on the settlement quotation screen. 
So, I could understand why Mr B reasonably assumed hed fully repaid his loan when he 
paid the settlement figure hed obtained from LiveLend. In the circumstances, I thought it 
was only fair LiveLend removed any adverse information relating to the contractual monthly 
payment Mr B unknowingly missed in February 2020. But I didnt agree with our investigator 
that LiveLend should also pay him £75 compensation. 
I said I could see Mr B had contacted LiveLend when he noticed his account still showed an 
outstanding balance. And it tried calling him back a few times as soon as it had established 
why that was the case. It wasnt until 18 March 2020 that LiveLend was able to speak to 
Mr B. I thought he was given clear explanation for why there was still an outstanding 
balance. LiveLend also sent Mr B a loan statement the following day to provide a breakdown 
of payments made. I explained Id looked at the statement and was satisfied it showed a 
monthly payment was still outstanding after hed paid the settlement amount. I thought Mr B 
ought reasonably to have known by this point he needed to make a further payment to settle 
his loan.
I then considered what Mr B told us about holding LiveLend responsible if its system didnt 
provide the correct settlement figure. And him thinking the matter was resolved when he 
received an email from it in May 2020. I also considered Mr Bs concerns about feeling open 
to manipulation and not knowing whether to trust the information LiveLend provided by email 
or what it told him over the phone.
I appreciated Mr Bs feelings on the matter and acknowledged it wasnt ideal he didnt get 
clear information when he requested a settlement figure. But I didnt think this meant 
LiveLend needed to waive the outstanding balance. I explained the principal amount 
borrowed was required to be repaid even if the loan was settled earlier than its intended 
term. I acknowledged LiveLends subsequent email said Mr B had closed his loan early. But 
I was mindful it was sent nearly two months after it had already evidenced he hadnt fully 
paid off his loan. I said I would have expected Mr B to have checked with LiveLend if he was 
in any doubt.
I thought it was also important to note it wasnt my role to punish businesses. My role was to 
decide the complaint before me  and if I decided the business did something wrong, what 
needed to happen to put that right. I explained part of my role was to also look at what Mr B 
did to mitigate any losses. 
I accepted it would have been frustrating for Mr B to find out his loan wasnt fully settled 
when he thought it had been. But I was mindful LiveLend provided him with an explanation, 
as well as supporting information, within weeks of his query. I thought this gave Mr B the 
opportunity to make the outstanding payment and avoid any further impact on his credit file 
as well as avoid the ongoing distress and inconvenience he told us he experienced.
Overall, I considered the removal of adverse information from Mr Bs credit file was sufficient 
in this instance to put things right. 
I invited further comments from both parties. 
LiveLend said it had arranged for any adverse payment information to be removed from 
Mr Bs credit file in relation to the missed payment in February 2020. Mr B didnt provide any 
additional comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has put forward any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see 
no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised 
above.Putting things right
I consider LiveLend didnt make it sufficiently clear to Mr B the settlement figure he obtained 
in February 2020 didnt include the contractual monthly payment for that month. So, I require 
it to remove any adverse information relating to that missed payment from Mr Bs credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and direct Chetwood Financial Limited trading 
as LiveLend to settle the complaint as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman