DRN-3648763
Complaint
Mr J has complained about a guarantor loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Trust 
Two) provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Trust Two provided Mr J with a guarantor loan for £6,700.00 in September 2018. This loan 
had an APR of 49.5% and a term of 60 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £15,819.00, including interest, fees and charges of £9,119.00, was due to be 
repaid in 60 monthly instalments of just under £265. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Js complaint and she thought Trust Two shouldnt 
have provided Mr J with his loan. So she thought that Mr Js complaint should be upheld. 
Trust Two disagreed with our investigator and asked for the case to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Js complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Trust Two needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Trust Two needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr J 
could afford to repay any credit it provided. The fact that Trust Two may also have been able 
to seek payments from a guarantor did not alter or dilute this obligation in any way.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Trust Two has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check before 
this loan was provided. The results of which showed that Mr J had had previous difficulty 
repaying credit. Indeed Trust Twos own checks showed that, at best, the payments to this 
loan were taking Mr J towards the margin of his income. And this was with the use of 
estimated living costs and what appears to be an over-optimistic declaration of rent 
payments too. 
I also have concerns that the recorded purpose of this loan was debt consolidation. This is 
because Mr J wasnt going to be able to clear all of his debts with this loan and hed only 
recently taken out a loan for a much larger amount than this one. So its unclear to me how 
this loan, which was on such disadvantageous terms, was going to improve Mr Js already 
precarious financial position going forward and how Trust Two could accept what  Mr J said 
at face value in these circumstances.
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr J has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr Js difficulties reflected his choices 
rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest 
this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from Trust Two, Ive 
been persuaded to accept Mr Js version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Js existing financial position meant that he was unlikely 
to be able to afford the payments to this guarantor loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown Trust Two that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr J. As Trust Two 
provided Mr J with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards him. 
Mr J ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a guarantor loan he shouldnt have been 
provided with. 
So Im satisfied that Mr J lost out because of what Trust Two did wrong and that it should put 
things right.
Fair compensation  what Trust Two needs to do to put things right for Mr J
Having thought about everything, Trust Two should put things right for Mr J by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to Mr Js loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr J actually made, whether to Trust Two or any third-party, should be 
deducted from the new starting balance  the £6,700.00 originally lent. If once all 
adjustments have been made this shows that Mr J has made overpayments, these 
overpayments should also be refunded to Mr J together with interest at 8% simple a 
year from the date they were made by Mr J to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made then all 
adverse information recorded on Mr Js credit file as a result of this loan should be 
removed. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Trust Two to take off tax from this interest. Trust Two 
must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Js complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman