DRN-3378967
The complaint
Mr S complains about an outstanding balance on his Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard credit card after direct debit payments were reclaimed by his bank. 
What happened
Mr S has a Barclaycard and has had a direct debit instruction to collect payments in place for 
several years. In October 2021 Mr S queried a direct debit payment with his bank. Mr S 
bank went on to carry out a direct debit indemnity claim covering all payments made since 
2017. A total of £1,607 was reclaimed by Mr S bank. As a result, Mr S credit card balance 
increased. 
Mr S has explained he wasnt aware his bank had reclaimed all the direct debit payments 
hed made. During December 2021 Mr S and Barclaycard discussed the direct debit 
indemnity claim. Barclaycard has since sent Mr S statements showing the outstanding 
balance of his credit card and asked him to make payments.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr S complaint. They didnt think Barclaycard had 
treated Mr S unfairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. As Mr S didnt accept the 
investigators view, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We look at complaints on an individual basis. Whilst I understand there was more than one 
business involved in the issues raised, Im only able to consider Barclaycards actions in this 
decision. I need to decide whether Barclaycard made any mistakes or treated Mr S unfairly. 
Barclaycard has sent us credit card statements going back several years and they show 
regular payments being collected by direct debit. There are also payments that have been 
made manually by Mr S. Barclaycard has explained Mr S bank told it the payments had 
been fraudulently taken and were being reclaimed as a direct debit indemnity claim. 
Whilst I understand there may have been a genuine misunderstanding between Mr S and his 
bank, I havent seen anything that indicates Barclaycard made errors or acted unfairly when 
it refunded Mr S direct debit payments. Ultimately Mr S bank raised a direct debit indemnity 
claim on his behalf and Barclaycard refunded the disputed payments  in line with its 
instructions.
Barclaycard has taken the decision to reduce Mr S credit limit. I appreciate Mr S isnt happy 
with Barclaycards decision, but its terms and conditions allow it to review a credit limit and 
take the decision to reduce it. I havent been persuaded that Barclaycards decision to 
reduce Mr S credit limit was unreasonable. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr S but I havent found anything that shows Barclaycard made 
mistakes after his bank reclaimed direct debit payments made since 2017 or that its treated 
him unfairly. As a result, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman