DRN-4208625
The complaint
Mr T holds a current account with Lloyds Bank Plc. In November 2017, a broker advised him 
to invest in a company involved in property development (the property company). Mr T 
accepted the brokers advice and invested some of his savings in the property company.
I understand that the broker led Mr T to expect that the property company would pay him 
dividends every six months for several years and then return his original investment. 
The property company only paid Mr T three dividends and kept his original investment. Mr T 
doesnt believe it will pay him anything further. He now thinks that the property company was 
fraudulent, and that Lloyds should have stopped him making the investment. It didnt, so he 
wants it to refund him all the money he lost and add interest. 
What happened
The events which led to this complaint are not in significant dispute. In outline, after some 
emails and discussions with the broker, Mr T decided to invest in the property company and 
sent it a cheque for £5,000. Lloyds processed the cheque without question. 
Mr T has referred to the three dividends the property company paid him as a couple of bits 
of interest, but they seem to have been broadly in line with what he expected at the time. 
The dividends stopped in 2019. At that time, Mr T spoke to the property company, but did 
not contact Lloyds. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before discussing the details of Mr Ts case, I would like to say how sorry I am for the 
situation in which he finds himself. He has lost a significant amount of money in difficult 
circumstances, and he has my sympathy for what happened to him.
Turning to the complaint itself, Mr T has sent us a great deal of information to explain why he 
considers the property company to have been fraudulent. Amongst other things, he has 
pointed out that one of its directors has served time in prison for fraud. 
Lloyds has said that it doesnt think the property company was fraudulent. It has told us that 
at the time Mr T made his investment, the property company was operating legally and 
offered a legitimate investment opportunity, albeit one that wasnt fruitful for Mr T.
I understand Lloyds position and if its opinion that the property company was trading 
legitimately (that is, not fraudulently) in 2017 is correct, then its very unlikely that I would 
have any grounds to tell Lloyds to give Mr T any money back. However, Im also aware that 
Mr T certainly believes he was the victim of fraud. 
When reviewing Mr Ts complaint, I can only look into the conduct of Lloyds, not the 
behaviour of the property company, or the broker. So, in order to give Mr Ts view full 
consideration, and solely to allow him a fair hearing, for the rest of this decision I have 
assumed that fraud took place along the lines he has described. I have considered Lloyds 
actions accordingly. 
I would also like to add that although the broker was clearly involved in encouraging Mr T to 
make his investment, Mr T has made very few direct comments about what the broker said 
or did, and how or when the broker passed matters over to the property company. Nor do I 
know the extent to which the broker may have been acting as a direct agent of the property 
company. However, as I am only considering Lloyds actions, these are not significant 
factors and I have attributed all relevant actions to the property company rather than trying to 
distinguish those which may have been carried out by the broker.
I have seen a copy of the cheque Mr T wrote. He completed it correctly, with the property 
company as the payee, the correct date, and a full signature. I accept that he only wrote the 
cheque because of what he now believes to have been fraudulent actions by the property 
company, but he effectively authorised Lloyds to pay the money for him 
While banks are normally expected to act on their customers instructions, fraud is a 
significant concern in the banking industry. At the time Mr T made his investment, I would 
have expected banks to have been alert to frauds and scams and to have been acting in 
their customers best interests to help stop them losing money. Where feasible, this could 
have meant banks calling a customer to ask reasonable questions to check if the customer 
wanted to proceed with a payment which looked unusual. 
The value of Mr Ts cheque was certainly unusual for him. In the months prior to it, he had 
only made one payment of a similar size, and that was to another account in his own name. 
And he had not made any previous payments to the property company. So, if an intervention 
was feasible, I think there were sufficient grounds for Lloyds to have made one to ask Mr T if 
he wanted to proceed. However, processing cheques is highly automated, and in some 
circumstances, it can be impractical for a bank to intervene.
Im not sure of the precise circumstances affecting Mr Ts cheque, but I do not think they are 
crucial to the outcome of this complaint, as I doubt a reasonable intervention from Lloyds 
would have changed Mr Ts mind about the investment. 
Mr T has used a representative to handle his complaint. The representative has sent us a list 
of questions it thinks Lloyds should have asked Mr T. The gist of its position is that if Lloyds 
had intervened to ask Mr T those questions, he would have told it not to process his cheque. 
But Im not convinced that it would have been reasonable or proportionate for Lloyds to have 
asked Mr T all the questions the representative has suggested. And, more significantly, I 
think that at that time Mr T was very confident that the property company offered him a safe 
place to invest his money. After all, as Lloyds has pointed out, at the time in question, the 
property company didnt seem to be doing anything obviously illegal and appeared to have a 
plausible investment strategy and to have been registered with Companies House. So, given 
the full circumstances at the time, even if Lloyds had made a reasonable intervention and 
asked Mr T a proportionate set of questions, I think he would have told it to go ahead and 
process the cheque. (Given the difficulties that Lloyds may have had in intervening with 
automated cheque clearance, I would like to add that its extremely likely I would have 
reached the same conclusion about this even if Mr T had used a different method of 
payment, such as electronic transfer, where it may have been easier for Lloyds to have 
intervened). 
In many cases, once a customer has told a bank of suspected fraud, I expect the bank to try 
to claim the money back from the fraudsters bank. This can be very difficult, as once fraudsters receive money into an account they control, they usually move it somewhere else 
quickly to reduce the chances of such attempts at recovery succeeding. So, time is of the 
essence.
I understand that Mr T did not tell Lloyds he suspected fraud until November 2022, some 
five years after he wrote the cheque. Lloyds has said that due to the length of time that had 
passed, it didnt raise a claim with the receiving bank. In the circumstances, I think this was 
reasonable. By that time, the chances of such a claim succeeding would probably have been 
zero.
So, in summary, I am very sorry about Mr Ts loss, but I dont think I can reasonably hold 
Lloyds responsible for it. If it had questioned Mr T about the investment at the time, I think he 
would have told it to go ahead. And, although Lloyds didnt make any attempt to recover Mr 
Ts money, by the time it knew about the fraud it was too late for recovery to be a realistic 
possibility. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ts complaint about Lloyds 
Bank Plc. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman