DRN-4353897
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about a claim he made on his DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company 
Limited (DAS) legal expenses insurance policy.
Mr M says DAS unfairly declined his claim.
What happened
Mr M made a claim on his DAS legal expenses insurance policy for cover to pursue a legal 
claim against a Party Wall surveyor who was instructed by the owner of the land adjoining 
his in relation to the erection of two blocks of flats. Mr M says that this work caused 
considerable damage to his property, which the Party Wall surveyor didnt properly address. 
DAS considered the claim and concluded there was no cover under the policy for the type of 
legal claim that Mr M wanted to bring. They said that whilst the policy did provide cover for 
contract disputes, this only applied to agreements which a policyholder has entered into for 
the buying or hiring of goods or services. In this case DAS said that Mr M hadnt entered into 
an agreement with the Party Wall Surveyor for buying or hiring goods or services because 
he hadnt funded these fees- rather they were paid for by the owner of the adjoining land.
Unhappy, Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator 
considered his complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. She said that even if the 
relationship between Mr M and the Party Wall surveyor could be called an agreement, there 
wasnt a contract for buying or hiring goods or services here as no payment had been made 
by Mr M in respect of this.
Mr M doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Ms complaint for broadly the same reasons set out 
by the investigator. Ill explain why. The starting point is the policy terms. They cover:
a dispute arising from an agreement or an alleged agreement which you have entered into 
in a personal capacity for a) buying or hiring in goods or services
The question here is therefore whether Mr M entered into an agreement for buying or hiring 
of goods or services.
I dont need to determine whether the relationship between Mr M and the Party Wall 
surveyor amounts to an agreement or alleged agreement in law. Thats because Im not 
satisfied that Mr M either bought or hired those services in this case. 
Mr M has made a considerable number of submissions in respect of this issue. I wont repeat 
them all here, but I can assure him I have read and understood them all. His main point is 
that that hiring or buying can encompass money being paid by someone else on his behalf in 
exchange for the service or hire provided - in this case the payment has been made by the 
adjoining owner of the land. Ive thought carefully about what hes said but Im not persuaded 
by this argument. It might be right that the Surveyor appointed by the adjoining owner was 
appointed to look out for Mr Ms interests but in order for him to have bought or hired those 
services, he would need to have paid for them in some way. 
In applying this principle, Ive applied the ordinary dictionary meanings of buying an hiring 
rather than any potential interpretations that might arise within the links Mr M has provided. I 
dont doubt that broader definitions of most terms can be found by seeking them out from 
different sources, but thats not in line with how The Financial Ombudsman Service would 
generally approach the interpretation of policy terms. Rather, we usually take the approach 
that where no specific definition of the word appears in the policy itself, we look to the 
ordinary dictionary meaning of it. In this case that means Mr M needed to have obtained the 
service in exchange for payment and importantly the policy terms require him to have 
entered into that agreement himself for that service.  
Mr M has talked about there being an agreement in place between him and the Surveyor. As 
Ive said above, I dont need to determine this issue because Im not persuaded that Mr M 
either bought or hired the service provided in this case himself because he didnt pay for it. 
Thats not to say he doesnt have a remedy against the Surveyor in law, but rather that his 
policy doesnt engage to fund the costs of such a claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman