DRN-4196670
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt make a payment shed requested and 
blocked her account.
What happened
In August 2021, Mrs D asked Barclays to make a payment of just over £4,000 to a printer in 
Poland which was doing some work for her. Barclays fraud system picked up the transaction 
as it was unusual, and Mrs D was asked to contact the bank. She did so, but the call handler 
was unhappy with the answers she gave to questions he asked, so the transaction was 
blocked. Mrs D was asked to visit a branch with her identification.
Mrs D lives abroad so was unable to visit a branch. She explained this to Barclays, but as it 
refused to remove the block on the account or make the payment, she raised a complaint.
Barclays looked into her complaint and issued a final response. It said if she was unable to 
visit a branch, she could provide certified documents and it would review the situation.
Mrs D provided certified copies of her passport as well as other documents, but Barclays still 
didnt remove the block, so she referred her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into it. She said it wasnt wrong of Barclays to block the transaction or 
account initially, but it ought to have provided greater detail about the documentation 
required from Mrs D to enable the block to be lifted. She said Barclays should pay Mrs D 
£150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience she suffered as a result.
At this stage, the block was still on the account and Mrs D replied to our investigator 
explaining that she was unable to provide some of the documents required as she is a 
foreign national and lives abroad. Our investigator liaised further with Barclays, and it 
suggested a phone call between Mrs D and the bank as well as a selfie of Mrs D with her 
passport. Our investigator felt that was reasonable and explained it to Mrs D.
Unfortunately, due to health reasons, Mrs D explained she is now unable to use the phone 
for a voice call. As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I disagree with our investigator and dont think Mr Rs complaint should be 
upheld. I issued my provisional decision saying:
The priority for me in this complaint was to work with the parties to get the block on Mrs Ds 
account lifted. I recommended Barclays should undertake a video call with Mrs D in order to 
obtain sight of the required documentation. Im pleased to say thats gone ahead recently 
and the block has been lifted. So all thats left for me to consider now is compensation for
the problems caused to Mrs D as a result of the payment and account being blocked.
Ive carefully listened to the conversation which led to the payment being blocked and all that 
flowed from there. It is evident there were communication issues during the conversation 
which led the bank to take the action it did. But these communication issues were on both 
sides. As the advisor had a strong regional accent and English isnt Mrs Ds first language, it 
seems clear to me she didnt understand some of the questions she was being asked, and 
she didnt understand the reasons for them. So its not surprising that the answers she gave 
were confused.
Towards the end of the conversation, Mrs D was told the money had left her account, so I 
believe at that point, she thought the transaction had been carried out. Otherwise, I think 
shed have pushed harder to have the transaction paid.
Mrs Ds account was blocked for approximately 20 months before the issue was resolved. 
While Barclays attempted to flex its procedures to assist Mrs D to provide evidence, it wasnt 
explicit in what it wanted. And its only after my involvement that Barclays agreed to a video 
call with Mrs D to resolve the account block. Thats something it couldve instigated itself 
which might have brought about a resolution much sooner.
Overall, I think Barclays was wrong to have blocked the transaction in the first place. If it had 
been clearer in its communication with Mrs D, its likely to have received clearer answers 
and been satisfied the transaction was genuine. For example, one of the questions asked 
was why the printer had the name it did. I dont see how that would assist Barclays in 
identifying the validity of the transaction and I think it ought to have known it was highly 
unlikely Mrs D would know the answer to it. And Barclays couldve done much more to 
resolve things for Mrs D more quickly. So I need to consider what it should do to put matters 
right for her.
Mrs D has told us the problems have damaged her professional reputation due to the 
payment not being made. She couldnt get the work carried out she needed to do. She says 
too, that as her account was blocked, she was unable to buy food and medicine. Mrs D told 
us shes seeking compensation equal to the sum that I couldn't access during the past two 
years while Barclays blocked my private account, a sum of around £5,700.
Mrs D has provided letters from a couple of businesses shes involved with on a professional 
basis. One of these refers to the work the printer was meant to be producing for Mrs D and 
threatens to terminate its contract with her. I note however its signed by someone with the 
same name as her son and is from a business with a similar name to one she is a director 
of. Its not clear what the contract was or whether it was eventually cancelled.
The second letter is from a publisher. It urges her to send the payment to the printer as soon 
as possible and cites Mrs Ds lack of professionalism. It goes on to say it will take action 
against her for breach of contract. Again we have no evidence of what the contract was or 
that any action was taken. I note however that Mrs Ds son and husband appear to be 
directors of the publisher, although the letter is signed by someone else with the title 
Production Director who isnt listed at Companies House as a director.
I dont doubt Mrs D would have been frustrated and inconvenienced by the payment not 
going through. But the letters shes provided dont persuade me her reputation was 
damaged to the extent she suggests it was and that could give rise to compensation of the 
level shes requested.
Ive asked Mrs D to provide evidence of the problems she had with the purchase of food and 
medicine. I noted shed not been using the account with Barclays on a regular basis, so I asked why shed needed to use it since the block. Mrs D explained she needed to use it as 
she was unable to work following the failure of Barclays to make the payment shed 
requested. Im not persuaded by what shes said  let me explain why.
There had been very little activity on the account prior to the blocked payment, so its clear 
that it wasnt being used as her main bank account. Its likely Mrs D had accounts elsewhere 
into which any income was paid, and her day-to-day expenditure wouldve been made from. 
Shes not provided any evidence to show she was unable to meet her usual expenses from 
that account, or that she had to borrow in order to do so.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mrs D experienced distress and inconvenience due to the issues 
with Barclays and they couldve been resolved much more quickly. I think compensation in 
excess of that proposed by our investigator is warranted here. But based on the evidence 
and information I have to hand, I cant see a case for Barclays to pay Mrs D £5,700 as shes 
requested.
On balance, having considered the complaint as a whole and all the evidence, I think 
Barclays should pay Mrs D £500 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience it caused 
her.
Both Mrs D and Barclays have rejected my provisional decision.
In summary, Mrs D reiterated how her reputation has been harmed, and increased her claim 
for compensation to £10,000. Barclays response  again in summary  centred on failed 
attempts of Mrs D to provide the required documentation it requested and the terms and 
conditions of the account. It said the terms allow it to block a payment tool and that it wont 
be liable for loss of business, goodwill, opportunity or profit.
In light of these objections, Ive looked again at my decision and have reached the same 
outcome. Let me explain why.
Mrs Ds claim is very difficult quantify and evidence. While shes provided more detail around 
her circumstances, she hasnt provided any new evidence which shows shes suffered a loss 
or that helps to quantify the loss shes claiming.
Barclays on the other hand has provided further evidence supporting its position. The terms 
and conditions of the account do indeed allow it to block a transaction and / or an account if 
it has security concerns as it did here. And they also exclude losses as Ive mentioned 
above.
But I do think Mrs D should be compensated for the service issues she experienced since 
the block was placed on the account and when it was released in April 2023. Barclays could 
have done more to suggest a way forward to unblock the account, although I do recognise 
the difficulties it had in communicating with Mrs D.
Overall, while I appreciate both parties will be disappointed with my decision, I remain of the 
opinion that £500 is a suitable level of compensation to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. For the reasons set out above, 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mrs D £500 in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 Richard Hale
Ombudsman