DRN-2867943
The complaint
Mr P complains that Western Circle Ltd, trading as Cashfloat, lent to him irresponsibly.
Mr P is represented by a third party.
 
What happened
Using information Western Circle and Mr W have supplied, here is a brief loan table of the
approved loans. 
loan date taken date repaid amount 
borrowedterm highest 
repaymentincome
1 25/06/2018 06/07/2018 £300 2m £198.59 £2,000
2 09/07/2018 04/09/2018 £300 2m £220.62 £2,000
3 18/09/2018 05/11/2018 £400 3m £205.85 £2,000
over 4 months gap in borrowing
4 21/03/2019 09/04/2019 £200 1m £235.20 £2,000
5 03/05/2019 18/06/2019 £200 2m £127.84 £2,000
6 25/06/2019 07/08/2019 £500 3m £220.92 £2,000
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Western Circle should put
things right for Mr P in relation to loans 5 and 6. Western Circle disagreed. It reiterated its
goodwill offer comprising a £100 payment to Mr P.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision dated 27 May 2021, in which I came to the same outcome as that 
reached by our adjudicator, but based on different reasoning. Since then both parties have 
indicated that they have nothing to add and await the issue of my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Western Circle needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly.
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mr P could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the
consumers income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Western Circle
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable
for the consumer.
These factors include:
the applicant has a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
where the amounts to be repaid were especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the applicant has a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
the applicant comes back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But I do not think that this was applicable
to Mr Ps situation as there was a break in the lending of over four months from
November 2018. It is this which has led me to come to conclusions about Mr Ps case which
differ to that of our adjudicator. I explained this in my provisional decision and I go on to 
explain again in this final decision. 
Western Circle was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loans 
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Mr Ps representative has acknowledged our adjudicators opinion and has not made any
representations. And from that it seems that Mr P does not disagree with that opinion. And
so, I will not be reviewing loans 1 to 4 as it seems they are undisputed.
Turning to loans 5 and 6, I have reviewed the submissions by Western Circle. I do not think
that the gap in lending after loan 3 was enough to break the lending chain, but it was enough
of a period for me to think that the circumstances surrounding Western Circles approval for
loans 5 and 6 need to be reconsidered. Our adjudicator upheld loan 6 as he thought the
lending pattern itself showed the lending was unsustainable, but I have a different view.
In May 2019 (loan 5), Western Circle had been receiving applications from Mr P for almost a
year. And despite indicating a monthly income of £2,000 and about £1,350 of expenditure
(including £500 in repayments to other loans) still he was applying for more credit. I think 
that a full financial review ought to have been carried out in May 2019. 
Mr P had openly declared that he was spending a quarter of his net salary on loan 
repayments. So, I think further investigation was likely warranted to find out what his true 
financial position was and why he was returning for more.
Western Circle has said it will only approve a loan if the total of all monthly creditrepayments, to which the applicant is already committed, together with all other living
expenses, leave the applicant with sufficient disposable income to comfortably afford their
repayment to Western Circle.
Western Circle has explained that it did a verification check on Mr Ps salary and was 
satisfied that it was the amount he had declared. And it said that it carried out credit checks,
but those records have not been sent to me to view now and in fact are not available at all. 
And so, I have used the information from Mr P to see what it is that Western Circle may have
found if it had carried out the checks I consider were proportionate for loan 5.
From Mr Ps credit file and his bank statements, plus other information we have received 
from Mr P, then at the time he applied for loan 5, he had
- two open loans with a firm I will call Lender W, each for £500 and still with a few months 
to go to be repaid, the repayments for which appear to have been about £160 and look 
to have been more frequent than monthly; and
- an open loan for £850 with six months to repay  Lender X  having just repaid 
Lender X £161 the day before which must have been a previous loan; and
- an open loan taken on 23 April 2019 with Lender Y for £300; and
- an open loan taken 29 April 2019 with Lender Z for £200; and
- two other loans with two different lenders which were due to be repaid in May 2019 and 
those repayments added up to about £450 for the two; and
- overdraft safety type facility with several drawdowns and repayments in a monthly 
period.
Mr Ps bank statements show a regular income of around £1,100 or less, which means it
was lower than his declared income.
I think that its very likely Western Circle would have discovered these additional credit
burdens which together amounted to more than the credit amount cost Mr P had declared.
And these sums lead me to think he was not likely able to afford the loan 5 repayments as
well as his existing credit. The transactions in his statements appear to show serial
borrowing and lead me to think that it was very likely Mr P was borrowing to repay other
loans which is a strong indication of unsustainability. I uphold loan 5.
Western Circle has told us that it spoke to Mr P when he applied for loan 6 in order to clarify
aspects of his application. I have not heard that call if it was recorded. Mr P was applying for
a loan which was more than double the amount of loan 5 and had increased the figure given 
for his outgoings. Having reviewed Mr Ps bank statements I have seen that his financial
circumstances were much the same as those outlined above. I uphold loan 6.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Western Circle should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about
what might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr P from loan 5, as Im satisfied it
ought to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that
question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr P may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, orindeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr P in a
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable
to conclude that Mr P would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options.
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Western Circles liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Western Circle ought to do as follows:
refund all interest and charges Mr P has paid on loans 5 and 6; and
pay interest of 8% simple a year* on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative payment information about loans 5 and 6 from Mr Ps credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Western Circle to take off tax from this interest. It must
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint in part and I direct that Western Circle Ltd 
does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman