DRN-4298255
The complaint
Ms R complains about the way Amtrust Europe Limited has settled a claim she made on an 
income protection insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2022, Ms R amended her existing personal income protection insurance policy to 
include a 30-day excess period. Previously, her policy had had no excess period. The 
amendment to the policy meant that in the event of a successful claim, benefit would only 
become payable after the first 30 days of absence.
Unfortunately, Ms R suffered an injury and was unable to work. She got in touch with 
Amtrust to make a claim and it seems she confirmed that she understood she had a 30-day 
excess period. However, Amtrust later wrongly told Ms R on two occasions  in writing and 
over the phone - that she didnt have an excess period.
Amtrust calculated Ms Rs settlement in line with a 30-day excess period, which meant it 
didnt include payment for the first 30 days of her absence. 
Ms R was unhappy with the misinformation shed been given and she complained about the 
way her claim had been settled.
Amtrust accepted that it had twice given Ms R the wrong information about her excess 
period and so it paid her £50 compensation. But it concluded that the claim had been settled 
in line with the policy terms.
Remaining unhappy with Amtrusts position, Ms R asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ms Rs complaint should be upheld. While he acknowledged that 
Amtrust had given Ms R the wrong information about her cover after shed made the claim, 
he felt shed been aware that her policy included a 30-day excess period. So he didnt think it 
would be fair to ask Amtrust to settle the claim outside of the contract terms. And he 
considered that Amtrust had already offered Ms R fair compensation.
Ms R disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Ms R, I think Amtrust has already settled her 
complaint fairly and Ill explain why.
Its common ground that Ms Rs policy initially didnt include a 30-day excess period. Prior to 
July 2022, Ms Rs policy was set-up with no excess period. So after a 30-day wait, any 
benefit due would be backdated to day one of a claim.
However, in July 2022, Ms R asked Amtrust to amend the policy to include a 30-day excess 
period, as well as a 30-day wait. Ive seen a copy of the email she sent to Amtrust requesting 
this change. The amendment had the effect of reducing Ms Rs policy premium. On 21 July 
2022, Amtrust sent Ms R a letter confirming the amendment had been made. A new policy 
schedule was attached to the letter, which clearly stated that the policy was now subject to a 
30-day excess period. As such, in the event of a successful claim, the terms of the updated 
contract between Ms R and Amtrust made it clear that no benefit would be paid for the first 
30 days of any absence. It appears that Ms R was aware that the change had been made 
and the impact of the amendment on her cover.
I was sorry to hear about Ms Rs injury. I dont doubt how painful this was for her and I do 
hope shes now made a good recovery. I also dont doubt how frustrating it mustve been for 
her when Amtrust wrongly informed her (post-claim), on more than one occasion, that she 
didnt have an excess period. I can understand that this wouldve likely resulted in some 
confusion and that Ms R may have understood that benefit would ultimately be paid for the 
full period of her absence.
But as Ive explained, Im satisfied Ms R had asked for a 30-day excess period and the 
updated policy documents made the terms of the cover clear. I dont think it would be fair, 
reasonable or proportionate for me to direct Amtrust to pay Ms R for the first 30 days of her 
absence, when this period simply falls outside of the cover Ms R holds. Neither can I fairly 
conclude that Amtrusts mistakes caused Ms R to suffer any financial loss she wouldnt 
otherwise have done. Thats because she was unfit for work during the 30-day excess period 
irrespective of its errors. 
As Ive set out above, I do appreciate that Ms R was likely caused frustration and some loss 
of expectation as a result of Amtrusts errors. And I think its appropriate for Amtrust to pay 
Ms R a modest amount of compensation to reflect the trouble and upset its erroneous 
information caused her. I understand Amtrust has already paid Ms R £50 compensation for 
her distress and inconvenience. In my view, this is a fair and reasonable award to reflect the 
likely impact of Amtrusts errors on Ms R and so I find that its already settled this complaint 
fairly. It follows then that Im not directing Amtrust to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman