DRN-4521660
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that esure Insurance Limited (esure) has unfairly declined an 
escape of water claim under their home insurance policy.
Any reference to Mr and Mrs E or esure refers to respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known between parties, so Ill summarise events.
Mr and Mrs E hold their home insurance with esure. They suffered an escape of 
water in their bathroom and made a claim. They said water had poured through their 
ceiling and throughout their home.
Mr and Mrs E say they called a plumber (Person A) to attend who said it was a cold-
water pipe that had burst. He had attended, isolated the leak and after a few hours 
the water had stopped.
esure considered the claim and declined it, saying the damage was caused as a 
result of faulty workmanship which is excluded under the policy. esure said Person A 
had installed their loft en-suite. And within his visit , esure says he pulled the sink 
away from the wall and done something behind there and left. It said since this visit, 
several contractors had visited the property but had been unable to find a leak since. 
So, esure concluded the leak arose behind the sink due to Person As previous 
workmanship.
Mr and Mrs E made a complaint and esure considered this. It awarded them £100 
compensation for delays but stood by its position on the claim. 
The complaint came to this Service and one of our Investigators looked into what 
happened. He said it was evident an escape of water had taken place, so an insured 
peril had been proven. And so, he said it fell to esure to evidence the exclusion had 
been fairly applied. And while Person A worked on the en-suite, he felt the conclusion 
was circumstantial and not persuasive  particularly as esures own agents were 
unable to find the source of the leak.
The Investigator upheld the complaint, directing esure to reimburse Mr and Mrs E for 
the repairs theyd already paid for, plus 8% simple interest, and an additional £100 
compensation.
Mr and Mrs E accepted the view, but esure didnt. So, the matter was passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans decision. I issued a provisional decision on 30 November 2023. Ive included 
an extract of this below.
Mr and Mrs Es policy provides cover for certain insured perils, such as fire, theft, 
escape of water amongst others. The onus is on them as policyholders to 
demonstrate an insured peril has taken place. Once this has been proved, the 
onus will then shift to the insurer if it intends to say the claim is not covered or 
excluded.
So, Ill look first at whether an insured peril has taken place.
The policy states it will cover escape of water/burst pipes. This states:
We will pay for loss of or damage to Your Buildings or Contents as a 
result of water escaping from water tanks, pipes, fixed equipment, any 
domestic appliance or fixed heating systems, or as a result of water 
freezing in water tanks, equipment of pipes.
Theres no dispute there is water damage within the home. So, I need to consider 
if this damage has escaped from water tanks, pipes, fixed equipment etc. In 
doing so Ive looked at the expert opinions provided.
oesures loss adjuster visited the property shortly after the damage 
occurred, and from their visit was unable to establish the cause of the leak 
 saying there were no leaks found on the day of its visit.
oA plumber (Company P) also attended the property. And they too were 
unable to establish the source of any leak within the property.
esure has shared the comments of its loss adjuster and Company P with Mr and 
Mrs E. For this reason, I havent repeated them in detail here. So, theres no 
cause of the leak in this case based on the expert opinions provided.
Mr and Mrs E say its unfair for esure to not cover the claim as they were unable 
to evidence what caused the escape of water.
I take on board what esure has said about an insured peril having not been 
proved. Its not in dispute Mr and Mrs E and esure both arent aware of how the 
leak was caused. Without being able to establish the exact cause of a loss, an 
insurer may be unable to establish whether or not an insured peril has occurred 
at all. However, in this particular case, Im satisfied the most likely cause of this 
escape of water was as a result of water escaping from pipes, fixed equipment or 
one of the listed items given the location and the extent of the damage.
So, Ill move on to consider the exclusions under the policy. esure seeks to rely 
on an exclusion which says esure will not pay for loss, damage or any liability 
resulting from or consisting of faulty workmanship, design or materials.
From what Ive seen of Mrs Es version of events given to esure, Person A was 
called after the water damage was discovered, and he attended within 5-10 
minutes as he lives nearby. I understand he went to the loft, pulled the handbasin 
from the wall, breaking the sealant, and carried out some activity that stopped the 
leak. On its face, given the location of the escape of water (a room Person A had 
only recently finished working in, installing bathroom facilities), I think it follows 
that this escape of water is likely to be linked to the works carried out.
Mrs E said Person A did not explain what the problem had been, nor what he had 
done to fix it. Since then, Mrs E has not been able to reach Person A again. 
esure has said given Person As avoidance of Mr and Mrs Es calls or contact, it 
believes the cause of the leak was some form of poor workmanship. And Im 
minded to agree. I think this behaviour isnt indicative of a party that is seeking to 
evidence they arent liable for the work  particularly as Mr and Mrs E may well 
have a form of legal recourse to Person A if they were liable for the damage 
through faulty workmanship. So, Id expect Person A to be keen to evidence the 
damage wasnt as a result of their own workmanship if this was the case.
Mr and Mrs E say neither of the expert comments state the damage was likely 
caused by poor workmanship. So esures conclusion was baseless and without 
evidence. I disagree, the conclusions the two parties reached were that there was no leak found. So, I have to look at the available evidence to determine what is 
most likely to have been the cause.
Person A attended at short notice, and seemingly resolved the issue that caused 
the leak, and this was in the vicinity of the work recently completed by them. So, it 
seems the most likely cause of the leak was related to their work. And given their 
lack of engagement with Mr and Mrs E, as well as esure, Im satisfied esures 
conclusion that this was caused by faulty workmanship is a fair one. As a result, 
Im not intending to uphold this complaint, nor award any further compensation.
For these reasons I explained I wasnt intending on upholding the complaint, giving both 
parties until 15 December 2023 to reply with anything further. Neither Mr and Mrs E nor 
esure have come back with anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has given me anything else to consider I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional decision. That is to say Im satisfied that esure has fairly declined this claim, 
and Im not directing it to do anything further nor provide any further compensation to Mr and 
Mrs E for the reasons previously outlined.
My final decision
For all of the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman