DRN-4190353
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as C, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC shouldnt have paid 
one of its cheques. The partners say the cheque in question had been fraudulently 
amended, so the funds werent paid to the correct payee.  
C is represented by an employee in bringing this complaint, although some submissions 
have also been made by the partners. For ease of reading, Ill refer to all submissions as 
being from the partners or simply from C. 
What happened
Cs partners told us:
On 9 September 2021, C issued a cheque for £29,142 to its rental company and 
posted it recorded delivery. 
The cheque was intercepted and C/O and a name added to the end of the payees 
name. The cheque was then paid into a bank account, which was not that of the 
rental company, at a different bank (the receiving bank). 
The cheque was debited from Cs Lloyds bank account on 10 September 2021. 
On 8 October 2021, C phoned up Lloyds and asked to stop the cheque. Lloyds said 
that they would do so. 
C then sent a second cheque to its rental company, which was received and paid in 
without issue. 
Lloyds said:
They were unable to stop the cheque as it had already been paid. They are sorry 
they gave the incorrect information about stopping it and have paid C £200 in 
compensation for this error. 
They didnt think they had done anything wrong in paying the cheque. 
They had referred the matter to the receiving banks fraud department, as they 
considered this to be a case of cheque conversion, that is, where the cheque has 
been paid into an account not in the payees name.  
They passed on the comments of the receiving bank, which also considered it hadnt 
done anything wrong. The receiving bank said the cheque had been paid into an 
account in the same name as the cheque and the correct procedures for opening an 
account had been followed. 
I issued a provisional decision on 6 June 2023. I provisionally upheld the complaint and said:
My provisional conclusion is that there are legal grounds for concluding that the 
cheque in question was not a valid payment instruction at the point when it was 
presented to Lloyds for payment. Ill explain why below and Ill give both sides a 
chance to consider my provisional findings and provide further evidence.
A cheque is a written order from a customer (the drawer), instructing their bank to 
pay a specified sum of money to a named beneficiary (the payee). Cheques are legal 
documents and their use is governed by the Bills of Exchange Act 1882 (BOE), as 
well as some later Cheques Acts. I dont think the latter Acts are relevant here, but I 
do think the BOE is relevant. 
Section 64 of the BOE covers alteration of bills and says:
(1) Where a bill or acceptance is materially altered without the assent of 
all parties liable on the bill, the bill is avoided except as against a party who 
has himself made, authorised, or assented to the alteration, and 
subsequent indorsers.
Provided that, where a bill has been materially altered, but the alteration is 
not apparent, and the bill is in the hands of a holder in due course, such 
holder may avail himself of the bill as if it had not been altered, and may 
enforce payment of it according to its original tenor.
This section of the Act says that, if a cheque has been materially altered, it is 
avoided. Case law confirms that avoided in this context means that it becomes a 
worthless piece of paper. A bank would therefore have no right to debit their 
customers account for the value of the cheque if it was presented for payment after 
material alteration. 
No copy exists of the cheque as originally written in this case, but I think theres little 
doubt about Cs version of events. This was a regular payment to a payee and a 
replacement cheque was issued to that regular payee when the cheque in question 
wasnt received by them. Given the knowledge of who the regular payee was, I think 
its more likely than not that the payee name was altered by adding additional 
wording to it. 
Im therefore currently persuaded that this cheque was originally made out to the 
regular payee. It follows that Im provisionally satisfied that it was intercepted and 
amended by a third party, who added some wording to the payee line, without the 
knowledge or authorisation of C. It was then paid in to an account, which was not the 
recipient intended by C. I dont think Lloyds disputes this version of events, as their 
argument that the cheque was converted is predicated on it. 
Section 64 of the BOE gives an exception where the drawer of the cheque has 
authorised or assented to the alteration. But this doesnt apply in this case. There is 
also a further exception where the alteration isnt apparent and the bill is in the hands 
of a holder in due course. A holder in due course is defined in section 29 of the 
Act as someone who took the bill in good faith and for value, and that at the time the 
bill was negotiated to him he had no notice of any defect in the title of the person who 
negotiated it. That again does not apply here, as the person who altered and paid in 
the cheque was not acting in good faith or for value. 
The BOE doesnt define material alteration, but I see no reason to conclude that the 
amendment to the payee name, which has occurred here, would not constitute a 
material alteration. In reaching my decision, I need to take into account any relevant case law and there 
are several legal cases, which I consider relevant here. In Slingsby v District Bank 
Ltd, a cheque had been amended in a similar way to Cs cheque, that is, by the 
addition of extra words after the payee name. The Judge found that the amendment 
to the payee was a material alteration and therefore the bank in that case had no 
right to debit the cheque from the drawers bank account. 
Similar conclusions were reached in the Court of Appeals consideration of appeals in 
the case of Smith v Lloyds TSB Group plc [2001] and Harvey Jones Ltd 
v Woolwich plc, which also deal with the question of the tort of conversion in such 
cases (which has been argued by Lloyds here). In both cases, which were 
considered jointly, the Judge found that the claimants couldnt sue for damages in 
conversion for the face value of the cheque, because the alteration had rendered the 
cheques in question worthless. 
I note that in these cases, the question of whether the alteration was apparent and 
hence whether the paying bank had been negligent was not considered to be a 
relevant consideration. The cheques were avoided before they reached the paying 
bank, so the bank had no contractual basis for paying them. 
I therefore provisionally conclude that the cheque is avoided and Lloyds should 
therefore not have deducted that amount from Cs bank account. 
By way of completeness, on the side issue of whether the bank made an error in 
telling C that they could stop the cheque in question, I agree that Lloyds made a 
mistake. Lloyds has already acknowledged this and I think the compensation already 
paid of £200 in total is fair to compensate for the inconvenience caused by this error. 
My provisional intention is therefore not to award any more for this aspect of the 
complaint. 
Finally, my provisional findings above may allay some of Cs other arguments and 
concerns. In general, it isnt within my power to demand investigations be carried out 
or change banks procedures, but rather to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
specific circumstances of the case, after taking into account relevant law and 
regulations. I havent addressed Cs specific arguments here, because I consider this 
case turns on a legal consideration, not on questions of negligence or otherwise by 
any party. 
Both C and Lloyds have made comments about the actions of the receiving bank, 
which I have read. But, as our investigator explained, the Financial Ombudsman 
doesnt have the power to look into a complaint from C about the receiving bank, 
because C is not their customer. So it would be wrong for me to comment about the 
receiving banks actions. And any findings I did make wouldnt be enforceable. 
I provisionally concluded that the bank should refund to C the value of the cheque, together 
with interest at 8% simple per year, by way of compensation for being deprived of this 
amount. 
Both parties responded accepting my provisional findings. This decision therefore confirms 
that outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides accepted my provisional decision, there is no need for me to repeat the above 
or go into any further detail. For the reasons explained above, my conclusion remains that 
the cheque is avoided and Lloyds should therefore not have deducted that amount from Cs 
bank account. 
Putting things right
I consider fair compensation would be to put the partnership back in the position it would 
have been in without the banks error.
The bank should therefore refund the sum of £29,142 to C. It should also compensate C for 
being deprived of this amount by adding interest to it at 8% simple per year, calculated from 
the date the second cheque was paid until the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the partners of C 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman