DRN-1276058
 
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr and Mrs R say Yorkshire Building Society mis-sold them the PPI. 
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage application told them to consider how theyd repay their mortgage 
if they were out of work  this was only something they needed to think about. It didnt say or 
imply they had to take PPI. In fact, the application offered them the option to get more 
information about Yorkshires policy or to turn it down. Mr and Mrs R turned it down at that 
point and their application still went forward.
Yorkshire sent Mr and Mrs R PPI illustrations showing how much it could cost if they chose 
different types of PPI. The illustrations said the policy was available to Yorkshire customers 
and they could get in touch for more details if they were interested. I think it wouldve been 
clear this was an optional product. And again, the illustrations did not say or imply that 
Mr and Mrs R had to take out a policy.
Mr and Mrs R then sent in an application form specifically for PPI. This was done separately 
to applying for the mortgage itself  it was not part and parcel of the mortgage application. 
They signed specifically to take out the policy. Mr and Mrs R say there was no option to 
decline the policy on this form, but its difficult to see why there would be. The document was 
an optional extra form for applying for PPI  if they didnt want a policy, they couldve simply 
not sent in a form at all. And theyd already been given an option to decline PPI earlier.
The PPI leaflet set out where a policy could help, and explained why it was worth taking out. 
It did use the phrase you need this insurance because but went on to explain why it was 
better than state support for most people and how it could be helpful to customers. I think it 
was clear that this was a general sales pitch and not a statement that Mr and Mrs R 
specifically had to have PPI as a compulsory condition of their particular mortgage. Similarly, 
Mr and Mrs R have pointed to other wording about compulsory insurance, but that was to do 
with buildings insurance, not PPI. I cant see anything which said PPI was compulsory.
The mortgage offer confirmed Mr and Mrs Rs choice to take out PPI, and Mr and Mrs R 
agreed to that offer. The document said they needed to make sure the PPI application had 
been submitted, but that was just to make sure that Mr and Mrs Rs choice to buy PPI was 
actioned in time for the mortgage to start, so that it didnt start before the insurance theyd bought was in place. Again, it was not saying the PPI was compulsory  in fact, Mr and 
Mrs R had already chosen it at that point.
I understand that Mr and Mrs R feel strongly that the PPI was compulsory. But I dont think 
thats supported by the evidence from the time. From what I can see, they were given a 
choice, their application was initially submitted without PPI, then after being given more 
details about the cover, they changed their minds and submitted an optional application for 
PPI separately to their mortgage application. So I think its most likely that Yorkshire made it 
clear Mr and Mrs R didnt have to take out PPI and that they chose to take it at the time  
though I can understand if they no longer recall doing so after so long.
Yorkshire didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs R, so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for them. It did have to make sure Mr and Mrs R got the information they needed to decide if 
it was right for them. 
I can see Yorkshire gave Mr and Mrs R illustrations showing what sort of benefits the PPI 
would give and what it might cost. It then confirmed the cost of the policy theyd chosen in 
their mortgage offer.
It is possible that Yorkshire couldve given Mr and Mrs R somewhat clearer information 
about the PPI. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs R were eligible for the cover and werent 
affected by any of its main exclusions. The policy was competitively priced given how much 
it would pay out in a claim. It offered Mr and Mrs R much more comprehensive cover than 
what they had through work or savings, and it wouldve paid out on top of their existing 
benefits. And its worth bearing in mind that if Mr and Mrs R had fallen behind on their 
mortgage, they couldve lost their home. So it looks like the PPI couldve really been useful 
for them in protecting their home. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was 
likely to have put them off taking it out. 
Lastly, Mr and Mrs R have mentioned some potential issues about cancelling the PPI and 
how it was displayed on their statements. In this case Im only looking at the sale of the PPI, 
and not what came after. If Mr and Mrs R are unhappy with the administration of their policy, 
they may be able to make a separate complaint about that, and may be able to bring that to 
us as a separate case if needed. But I do not think that the policy was mis-sold in 2001.
This means Yorkshire doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R.
But Yorkshire will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R because: 
Yorkshire got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs R about that. Because Yorkshire didnt 
tell them, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Yorkshire has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
 
What the business needs to do
Yorkshire has to pay back to Mr and Mrs R any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Yorkshire should also pay back to Mr and Mrs R any 
extra interest they paid because of that.That means Yorkshire should pay back to Mr and Mrs R the extra they paid each month 
because the commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Yorkshire should also pay Mr and Mrs R 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs R can claim back the tax 
if they dont pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire Building Society doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs R any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, 
then I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman