DRN-1754412
The complaint
Mr M complains that Equifax Limited reported active Debt Management Programs (DMPs) 
on his credit file in relation to settled accounts. 
What happened
Last year, Mr M contacted Equifax as a debt he had repaid was showing on his credit file as 
being paid as part of a DMP. Mr M explained that the information reported wasnt accurate 
as the debt had been repaid and no longer formed part of an active DMP. 
Equifax contacted the lender that was reporting the information to check whether it could 
remove the reference to the DMP. Over the following months, various messages were 
shared and in November 2019 the lender gave Equifax permission to remove the reference 
to a DMP from the entry on Mr Ms credit file. 
Mr M also raised concerns about a credit card he had also settled which was showing as 
being part of an active DMP. Equifax contacted the credit card provider to check whether it 
could remove the information about the DMP but didnt get a response. 
Mr M complained and Equifax responded to say that it cant amend information that is 
reported by a lender without its permission. Equifax advised that the active DMPs remained 
on Mr Ms credit file because that was the information the lenders were reporting. 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. Mr M has 
told us he feels its clear that the information reported was inaccurate as its impossible for a 
settled debt to be subject to an active DMP. Our investigator thought Equifax had made 
reasonable attempts to contact the lenders involved and said it had dealt with Mr Ms 
complaint fairly. Mr M asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ms frustration as he wants to ensure his credit file is accurate. And I 
also think Mr M makes a reasonable point when he says that its not possible for a settled 
debt to be part of an active DMP. Whilst I understand my decision is likely to feel somewhat 
frustrating to Mr M, I havent found that Equifax made an error in this case as it can only 
report the information supplied by the lenders. 
Ill look at each of the debts in turn, starting with the loan. Mr M asked Equifax to amend the 
settlement date for the loan and remove the reference to an active DMP from his credit file. 
Equifax then contacted the lender to check whether it approved the changes. 
Whilst the changes took several months to be approved by the loan provider, I havent found 
that Equifax caused a delay. Equifaxs emails asked clear questions and for the lender to 
confirm it consented to the removal of the DMP information. The loan provider ultimately 
confirmed that the DMP information could be deleted and Equifax quickly took action to that 
end. 
I can see that the situation took several months to resolve, but  Im satisfied Equifax 
amended Mr Ms credit file once permission had been given. 
Equifax also contacted the credit card provider and requested permission to remove the 
DMP information but received no response. Whilst credit reference agencies cant amend 
information without permission, we would expect them to contact the business involved and 
check whether it consents to amending the information being reported. I understand the 
credit card provider didnt respond, but Im satisfied Equifax contacted it as Id expect. And 
Mr M also had the option to following up with the credit card provider as well. 
As Ive said above, I do take Mr Ms point that its not possible for a settled debt to be part of 
an active DMP. Mr M says Equifaxs systems should automatically remove any reference to 
an active DMP from a credit file once the debt is settled. But I cant tell Equifax to change its 
systems or the way it operates. I can see that two of Mr Ms previous lenders continued to 
report active DMPs on his credit file despite the debts being settled. Ultimately, its up to the 
businesses reporting information to ensure they do so accurately. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M as I can see how strongly he feels. But our service cant force a 
business to change the way it operates or how its systems work. Im satisfied that Equifax 
had to get permission from the businesses reporting the active DMP before they could be 
removed from his credit file. As I think Equifax has dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly, Im not 
telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman