DRN-2819040
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint is about their mortgage account with Pepper (UK) Limited trading 
as Engage Credit. Mr S, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, says that interest on 
the account has been incorrectly calculated. Mr S is also dissatisfied with Engages 
explanation of how interest has been applied.
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs S would like Engage to explain how interest has been 
calculated, and to provide commensurate compensation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have a mortgage taken out in January 2008 and which is now held by Engage. 
They borrowed £117,000 plus fees of £1,070 over a term of 11 years, on an interest-only 
basis. The mortgage reached the end of its term on 14 January 2019. There is 
approximately £86,000 still outstanding.
In 2019 Mr S queried the balance on the account, as he believed interest had been 
incorrectly calculated and that this had affected the way in which payments made to the 
account had been applied towards reducing the account balance.
In response to the complaint, Engage acknowledged there had been a system error which 
led to an incorrect balance showing on its mortgage statements. Engage clarified that this 
was a technical error, but that it hadnt resulted in interest being incorrectly applied. 
Compensation of £150 was offered for this. Engage also explained how the monthly 
payments were calculated and how this affected the mortgage balance. Engage also 
apologise for not replying to an email from Mr S and offered a further £100 compensation.
Unhappy with Engages response, Mr and Mrs S complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think Engage had done anything 
wrong. He explained that we dont provide an auditing service, and he was satisfied at 
Engages explanation of how interest had been calculated. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigator. He noted that we dont audit accounts, but said that 
where a lender is consistently failing to give satisfactory answers or provide correct 
information, that must be something we should be concerned about.
Mr S was also unhappy that, every time he complained, Engage would issue a final 
response and then, when he complained at a later date, it would issue a further final 
response. Mr S also says that, even though this was an interest-only mortgage, in 2018 the 
monthly repayment required was less than the actual interest, so unpaid interest was being 
added to the balance and increasing the debt, incurring interest on interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The above is a summary, and uses my own words. No discourtesys intended by that. Its a 
reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Im mindful that our decisions are published, and so I must ensure no information is included 
which might lead to Mr and Mrs S being identified. Im also aware that the investigator issued 
a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been sent to all parties, and so I 
dont need to repeat all the details here. Instead I will concentrate on the main issue in the 
complaint  Mr Ss concern that interest has been incorrectly calculated.
This is an interest-only mortgage, not a capital repayment mortgage. What this means is 
that, unlike a capital repayment mortgage, payments made in excess of the monthly interest 
do not result in the loan balance reducing on an amortising basis. Instead, the capital is 
applied as a lump sum reduction, which in turn affects the amount of interest charged. 
Ive looked at the calculations and the comments on both sides, Having done so, the 
evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest any obvious mistakes. Im satisfied Engage has taken all 
Mr and Mrs Ss overpayments into account when it has calculated the interest due. 
Its not possible for us to carry out a detailed or forensic audit of an account history. Its open 
to Mr and Mrs S to instruct a suitably qualified independent accountant or auditor to do that 
for them. That would have to be at their expense, although if an error was found to their 
financial detriment they could include any reasonable costs of finding it in any fresh 
complaint that followed.
Engage did make an error in relation to incorrect information on an annual statement, due a 
system error which affected not just Mr and Mrs S, but other customers. But Engage has 
explained that the error was only in relation to the information contained on the statement 
(due to an incorrect code being keyed), and did not affect the calculation of interest or the 
application of payments to Mr and Mrs Ss account.
I completely understand, however, why this fuelled Mr Ss belief that, in admitting this error, 
Engage must have made other errors on his account too. But the account history doesnt 
persuade me that this is the case and so I dont find that Engage has made any mistake in 
relation to the calculation and application of interest.
Mr S says that Engage has failed to provide him with a detailed explanation of how interest 
is calculated and applied to the account. Im satisfied Engage has provided Mr S with a 
detailed explanation of this, albeit it is one which Mr S doesnt accept. Its Mr Ss prerogative 
to reject this, but it doesnt mean I have to order Engage to provide a new and different 
explanation with which Mr S will be happy where I am satisfied that the reply already given 
by Engage is the correct one.
Mr S says that when he complained about various issues on his account, Engage issued 
several final response letters. But Engage is required to deal with complaints in line with 
regulations, which require a final response letter with referral rights to this service. From the 
final response letters Ive seen, Im satisfied Engage addressed the various concerns Mr S was raising, some of which related to account-specific issues (interest calculations) and 
others which covered customer service issues (for example, not replying to an email). This is 
what I would expect to see and so there is nothing wrong in Engage issuing more than one 
final response where fresh complaints are made.
I note Engage has offered Mr and Mrs S compensation of £150 for the system error leading 
to the incorrect information on its mortgage statement, and £100 for not replying to an email. 
I think this is fair and reasonable.
Because Im satisfied that Engage hasnt made an error in relation to the calculation of 
interest or application of payments to the account, it follows that I am not ordering any other 
redress or award of compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman