DRN-2614698
The complaint
Mr F complains about a loan provided to him by Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans, (ELL), which he said was unaffordable. He is also unhappy about the 
amount of his outstanding loan balance. 
What happened
ELL agreed a loan for Mr F for £4,100 which was taken out on 7 December 2018. The loan 
was to be used in part to consolidate three payday loans. It was to be repaid by 48 monthly 
repayments of £256.12. If each payment was made when it was due, the total amount 
repayable would be £12,293.76. The interest rate was 70.9% (99.1% APR). From the 
information Ive seen, the loan hasnt yet been repaid. 
Mr F said that he approached ELL for a loan as hed been struggling financially for some 
time due to payday loans. When he met with ELLs agent, Mr F said that they could see that 
he was in a vulnerable position with around six or seven outstanding payday loans. Mr F 
also had other debts and credit card bills which needed to be paid. He used the loan to pay 
off some of the payday loans, reduce credit card bills and pay other debts. But not all his 
debts could be cleared and before long Mr F was using other payday lenders again to try 
and keep up with all his other repayments which started the cycle again. He had entered into 
a debt management plan in September 2019.
ELL provided a final response letter for each aspect of Mr Fs complaint. With regard to the 
amount of the outstanding loan balance, it said that that Mr Fs account was rescheduled in 
October 2019. Under the terms of the reschedule, he wouldnt repay more than the original 
total amount repayable. So, it couldnt agree that the outstanding balance was excessive or 
unfair. 
With regard to Mr Fs complaint about irresponsible lending, ELL said it used the lowest 
salary amount on the two bank statements it had seen to work out his monthly income of 
£2,899.08. It also noted Mr Fs rent amount of £300. ELL obtained and reviewed two months 
bank statements from Mr Fs primary bank account, conducted a credit search and carried 
out a job check. It used statistical data to calculate Mr Fs living expenses and applied a 
buffer to the living expenses amount to accommodate any unexpected minor changes in    
Mr Fs circumstances or one-off additional expenses. Mr Fs monthly financial commitments 
together with his general living expenses (based on statistics) were calculated as £1,524.25. 
So, it said that Mr F had a monthly disposable income of £1,118.71 after taking into account 
ELLs loan repayment. ELL believed that the checks it completed were reasonable and 
proportionate and that the loan was sustainable over the loan term as Mr F had disposable 
income. It believed that Mr F would have been able to make the repayments to his loan 
without undue difficulty over the life of the credit agreement assuming there was no 
significant unforeseen change in circumstances and no drastic increase in borrowing.
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that ELL 
had carried out proportionate checks before the loan. She could see that ELL had asked    
Mr F about his monthly income and asked him to provide his bank statements to verify       
his income. She noted that Mr F had another current account, but ELL hadnt asked for 
statements for that account. She couldnt say that any of the information ELL had prior to 
lending should have prompted it to complete further checks or deter it from lending to Mr F.
The investigator also noted that Mr F was unhappy with the amount of his outstanding loan 
balance. Having reviewed the information provided she said that it appeared that any 
rescheduling made on his account hadnt impacted the total amount that he would repay. 
Mr F responded to say that hed seen other cases against ELL where the APR had been 
challenged despite being agreed by both parties. He also said that ELL could have done 
more when lending to someone in a vulnerable position, especially when encouraging that 
person to take the maximum available. Mr F disagreed that ELL had reviewed his credit 
report thoroughly to understand the outstanding balances. He disagreed that the appropriate 
checks had been carried out.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
I note that Mr F has referred to other cases. But we assess each case on its own merits and 
it isnt appropriate to compare the outcomes of complaints as the circumstances may be very 
different.
I have dealt with each aspect of Mr Fs complaint separately below.
Irresponsible lending complaint
When ELL lent to Mr F the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
ELL was entering into a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Fs creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that ELL 
had to consider both the risk to it that Mr F wouldnt make the repayments under the 
agreement when due, and the risk to Mr F of not being able to make these repayments. 
In particular, ELL had to consider Mr Fs ability to make repayments under the agreement as 
they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to meet the 
repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual or 
statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on his 
financial situation. 
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the total 
cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments for an 
extended period). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Fs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
 - Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Fs loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did ELL make a fair lending decision? 
Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Fs loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
I note that ELL made a number of checks before it lent to Mr F. ELL asked for his rent 
amount and calculated his living expenses according to statistical data. It said these were 
£803. It also carried out credit checks. I can also see that ELL had obtained Mr Fs main 
bank account statements for October 2018 and November 2018. From its notes on the 
statements, I can see that it checked Mr Fs monthly income and certain other transactions 
on the statements. ELL calculated that Mr F would have a disposable income of around 
£1,118.73 after his monthly repayment was made. This was on the basis that he repaid his 
three payday loans totalling £1,665.85 from the loan proceeds, so that he would have 
monthly credit repayments of £421.23 remaining to be paid. I can see that ELLs Go Live 
Audit form refers to this.
Ive reviewed the results of ELLs credit checks. I can see that there was one payday loan for 
£600 taken out in October 2018 and a large loan with a balance of around £8,200 taken out 
in August 2018. It appears that this second loan had been used to buy a car. 
Mr F also had a current account balance of £2,499 which was around his overdraft limit. 
There were also six credit cards, each with balances very near their respective credit limits. 
Whilst Mr Fs bank overdraft and credit card accounts were approaching their limits, they 
were within them.
I can also see that Mr F had taken out a £700 loan (which Mr Fs credit report showed was a 
payday loan) four months before his loan application which had been repaid in           
October 2018. Mr F had also repaid what appeared to be four other payday loans that year. I 
also note that ELL had seen two other recent payday loans on Mr Fs bank statement for 
November 2018 which it required Mr F to pay from the loan proceeds. I can see that Mr Fs 
heavy payday loan use in the past might have suggested that he had problems managing 
his money. But ELLs loan was being taken to consolidate Mr Fs existing payday loans so that might have broken the cycle for Mr C. Its not uncommon that the sole reason for 
repeated payday loan use stems from the need to repay earlier loans.
I can see that ELL obtained bank statements from Mr F for October 2018 and           
November 2018 for the current account into which his salary was paid. ELL has provided this 
Service with copies of these. 
Ive reviewed the bank statements Mr F provided to ELL. I can see that it made notes on the 
statements regarding certain transactions. It appears that it would have asked Mr F about 
these when they met. 
The bank statements ELL saw show no apparent issues such as gambling, returned 
payments or an unauthorised overdraft. The bank account was managed well, and Mr F 
generally maintained the account in credit. It is clear that Mr F was spending much more 
than his income although much of the spending doesnt appear to be on essential living 
costs. I can see that in October 2018 the transactions made significantly exceeded the 
amounts received by about £800. This excess had reduced to around £230 in         
November 2018. But I think in Mr Fs circumstances it might not have been unreasonable for 
ELL to think that some of Mr Fs discretionary expenditure might cease when his finances 
had been stabilised by taking the consolidation loan.
I can see that Mr F would still have had credit commitments to repay after his payday loans 
were repaid. ELL said that these were around £421 on its Go-Live Audit document and I note 
that ELL had accounted for these in its assessment. It seems from the bank statements that 
Mr F was actually paying a total of between £445 and 495 for his monthly credit 
commitments (excluding the three payday loans and a loan he repaid at the end of 
November 2018). I can also see that the statements only showed payments for four of his six 
credit cards in October 2018 and three of his six credit cards in November 2018. So, it seems 
likely that he had missed repayments on these accounts in those months and likely he 
needed to pay more than £495 for his monthly credit commitments. But it doesnt appear 
likely that an increased amount for credit commitments to cover repayments on all his credit 
cards would have made ELLs loan unsustainable.
  
The statements also appeared to show that Mr F had at least two other current accounts. It 
made a note of this but didnt ask to see statements for those accounts. But I think it also 
needed to see these to obtain a true and complete picture of Mr Fs financial circumstances. 
I asked the investigator to ask Mr F to send us his statements from these other accounts. I 
refer to these below.
What would further checks have shown? 
Mr F has provided this Service with some bank statements for his two other current accounts 
from around the time of his loan application. Im not suggesting here that these were the 
checks that ELL should have done. But I think looking at these gives me the best picture of 
what the lender would have likely seen if it had carried out further checks. 
Ive reviewed the statements for Mr Fs other current accounts. One had been around its 
overdraft limit for some time and was being used for account transfers. The other account 
had recently been opened. Mr F was paying for some food and drink from that account as 
well as making account transfers. But, there were again no apparent issues such as 
gambling, returned payments or an unauthorised overdraft.
So, if ELL had made these further checks, Im not persuaded they were likely to have given 
ELL additional concerns.So, looking at everything in the round, I havent seen enough to find that ELL ought to have 
declined to lend to Mr F. I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mr F. It does 
seem from his December 2018 bank statement that his finances worsened just before he 
applied for the loan. But that wasnt something Mr F declared to ELL. And, I wouldnt have 
reasonably expected ELL to have asked for Mr Fs up to date bank statement for his main 
account covering the first week of December 2018. It had already seen recent statements for 
this account and there was no indication on the supplied bank statements that there were 
any serious problems such as gambling or returned payments. So overall, Im not persuaded 
that ELL made an unfair lending decision on this occasion.
Loan balance amount complaint
I note that Mr F has also complained about the amount of his outstanding loan balance. As I 
hadnt seen current information about Mr Fs loan balance, I asked the investigator to obtain 
a current loan statement from ELL. 
ELL provided a current loan statement. There were three figures given at the end of the 
statement as follows:-
Total interest balance £5,434.39
Closing balance main loan ££3,020.50
Total future payments £5,778.91
It wasnt clear to me from the information in the statement as to how much the outstanding 
balance was. Id noted that the total amount due from Mr F under the loan agreement was 
£12,293.76 and that ELL had previously said that he would not be paying any more than this 
amount if he made reduced payments. I could also see from the loan statement that Mr F 
had paid £6,513.89. So, Id calculated that around £5,780 was due from Mr F. 
I asked the investigator to ask ELL to confirm the total outstanding balance due and it 
responded to say that the contractual required balance was £5,780. So, I cant say that the 
loan balance is incorrect. It follows that I dont uphold this aspect of Mr Fs complaint.
So, Im sorry to disappoint Mr F, but for the reasons set out above, it follows that I dont 
uphold his complaint. 
Although Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint, Id like to remind ELL of its ongoing obligation 
to continue to exercise forbearance, should it choose to collect payments from Mr F and if 
its the case that hes in financial difficulty.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman