DRN-4104243
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with the service they received from Lloyds Bank PLC 
surrounding their reporting a lost debit card.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D were on holiday in the UK with their family. Mrs D lost her Lloyds debit card 
and telephoned Lloyds to report this. However, Lloyds then cancelled Mr Ds debit card by 
mistake. This meant that neither Mr or Mrs D had access to a working debit card, which 
disrupted their holiday. Mr and Mrs D werent happy about this, so they raised a complaint.
Lloyds responded to Mr and Mrs D and apologised for their error. Lloyds also made a 
payment of £150 to Mr and Mrs D as compensation for any trouble or upset they may have 
incurred as a result and paid a further £18 to cover the costs of the phone calls that Mr and 
Mrs D had to make. Mr and Mrs D werent satisfied with Lloyds response, so they referred 
their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response Lloyds had 
issued to Mr and Mrs Ds complaint already represented a fair outcome to what had 
happened. Mr and Mrs D remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D have explained that when Lloyds cancelled Mr Ds card, they were in a 
waterpark with their young children and with Mr Ds mother, who is disabled. And because 
Lloydss cancelled the wrong debit card, this meant that Mr and Mrs D couldnt buy water 
floats for their children. 
Mr and Mrs D have also explained that the nature of his mothers disability means that she 
shouldnt be left alone, and that the plan was that Mrs D would look after her while he 
enjoyed the park with his children. But because Mr D was on the phone with Lloyds for a 
significant time while in the waterpark trying to resolve the matter, he wasnt available to 
supervise his children in the park such that neither he nor his children could enjoy their time 
there. And Mr and Mrs D have therefore suggested that Lloyds should reimburse to them the 
full cost of all of their family members waterpark tickets.
I can appreciate how frustrating having Mr Ds debit card cancelled would have been. But it 
seems to me that in that circumstance that Mr and Mrs D describe, Mr D and Mrs D would 
have been able to swap roles  with Mrs D supervising their children in the waterpark while 
Mr D remained with his mother. And this is especially the case given that Mr D has explained 
that the majority of the time he spent on the phone with Lloyds that day was spent on hold. 
And so, I dont feel it can reasonably be said that Lloyds necessarily disrupted Mr and Mrs 
Ds familys time in the waterpark to the degree that Mr and Mrs D contend.
Additionally, when Lloyds became aware that Mr Ds debit card had been cancelled in error, 
they suggested to Mr and Mrs D that they could visit a local Lloyds branch and withdraw 
cash over the counter so that they would have money during the remainder of their holiday. 
And given the circumstances, this seems like a reasonable suggestion to me. 
Mr and Mrs D have said that after the waterpark, theyd planned to visit an amusement park, 
but that they didnt feel comfortable taking their family into such a park without a working 
debit card or any money. But again, I feel that one possible and reasonable course of action 
would have been for either Mr D or Mrs D to have gone alone to a Lloyds branch and 
withdrawn money before returning to their family, which would have allowed the family to still 
enjoy the amusement park as planned. 
Accordingly, while Im sympathetic to the disruption that Mr and Mrs D experienced because 
of Lloyds error, I dont feel that it would be fair to instruct Lloyds to reimburse to them the 
cost of the waterpark and amusement park tickets as they would like. And this is because I 
feel that there was a viable course of action available to Mr and Mrs D which would have 
reduced the impact of the cancelled debit card on their visits to those holiday attractions so 
that they could still have been enjoyed by most, and in the case of the amusement park, 
potentially by all members of the family.
Of course, Mr and Mrs D shouldnt have had to have made such a visit to a Lloyds branch 
during their holiday. But Lloyds have acknowledged this in their response to their complaint, 
and I feel the £150 compensation that Lloyds paid to Mr and Mrs D for having to take time 
out of their holiday to contact Lloyds and to withdraw cash from a branch as Lloyds 
suggested, as well as the payment of £18 to cover the cost of the telephone calls they had to 
make, already provides fair compensation to Mr and Mrs D for what happened. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr and Mrs D were wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action. I hope Mr and Mrs D 
will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman