DRN-2373064
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) wont refund them 
£300 after Mr P says an ATM failed to dispense this amount to him.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have a joint bank account with RBS. In October 2019 Mr P tried to withdraw 
£300 from the account using an ATM owned by another bank. Hes said the machine 
displayed a message telling him to remove his card but no cash was dispensed. Hes said 
he waited for a while but as nothing appeared he assumed the machine was faulty. He went 
to another ATM but was unable to withdraw funds as he had reached his withdrawal limit for 
the day.
Mr and Mrs P raised a dispute with RBS. It investigated the issue but said, according to all 
the records provided by the third party bank, the cash had been correctly dispensed.
Mr and Mrs P made a complaint. Mr P again stated the cash hadnt been dispensed and 
asked RBS to obtain CCTV footage they felt would prove this or show someone else taking 
the money. RBS responded to the complaint but didnt change its view as it felt the evidence 
available showed no error. It also explained it didnt have access to the CCTV footage as the 
ATM belonged to a different bank, but Mr and Mrs P could contact the police or the third 
party bank directly to try and obtain this.
As they were unhappy with the banks response Mr and Mrs P brought the complaint to our 
service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They felt RBS had provided sufficient 
evidence that there was no ATM error. Mr and Mrs P didnt accept this. They still felt RBS 
shouldve done more to obtain the CCTV footage as this wouldve supported Mr Ps version 
of events and helped them pursue the matter with the police if the money had been taken by 
someone else. Because they didnt accept the investigators findings, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to consider whether or not RBS did everything I wouldve expected when 
Mr and Mrs P raised a dispute over the ATM withdrawal. I recognise their strength of feeling 
in this case  Mr P insists the ATM didnt dispense the cash. And I have taken his testimony 
into account. But I also need to consider the other evidence provided by RBS in this case.
RBS had a responsibility to ensure Mr and Mrs Ps withdrawal was correctly authenticated, 
recorded and not affected by any technical breakdown or deficiency. So when they raised 
their dispute I wouldve expected RBS to contact the third party bank for more information 
about the ATM in question to make sure this is what had happened, which is what it did. 
The evidence provided by the third party bank shows the ATM didnt balance at the end of 
the day. There was a discrepancy of £10 and the customer who was owed this amount was 
identified after they made a claim. Other than this amount, its provided evidence the 
machine balanced. So although there was a recorded fault with the ATM that day, it doesnt 
seem likely its linked to the £300 withdrawal Mr P made.
The third party bank also provided the ATM journal roll which showed a breakdown of all the 
transactions made. In Mr and Mrs Ps case, it shows Mr P made a withdrawal of £300 and 
the money was successfully dispensed. RBS also obtained the journal roll which shows 
withdrawals were successfully made either side of Mr Ps withdrawal, around 10 minutes 
before and after. Which suggests the ATM was working around the time Mr P made his 
withdrawal and it also seems unlikely there was enough time for someone to have tampered 
with the machine. 
We also asked for records from the ATMs purge bin  where any unclaimed cash wouldve 
ended up. Unfortunately this record was no longer available due to the third party bank 
changing its systems. Its always disappointing when evidence isnt available, but in those 
circumstances I need to reach a decision based on the evidence available and what I think is 
more likely on balance. And overall, if there had been an error with Mr Ps withdrawal, I think 
its likely it wouldve shown up in the records we do have, as was the case with the 
discrepancy of £10 Ive mentioned above.
Mr P has said he remembers someone behind him when he was using the ATM and hes 
suggested someone else mightve taken his cash when it was dispensed. But if someone 
else was able to take the money because he didnt wait long enough for the cash to be 
dispensed, this isnt something I would consider RBS liable for. And if he did wait a 
reasonable amount of time to see if the cash would be dispensed, it seems unlikely 
someone else wouldve been able to take it.
It also seems strange that if Mr P did notice someone waiting just behind him he wouldnt 
have mentioned to them he thought there was a fault with the ATM, or waited longer to 
ensure his cash couldnt be taken by anyone else. Or, if he felt the error was with his 
account rather than the ATM itself, it seems strange he didnt check his balance there or 
contact his bank straight away rather than going straight to another ATM to attempt a 
withdrawal.
On balance, based on the evidence Ive seen I think its more likely Mr and Mrs Ps money 
was dispensed when Mr P requested it. So I dont think RBS has acted unreasonably in 
reaching the same conclusion.
I understand part of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is that they felt RBS didnt do enough to 
obtain CCTV footage of the withdrawal which they think wouldve supported Mr Ps 
testimony. While it may have been helpful for RBS to try and obtain this CCTV evidence I 
cant be sure its efforts would have been fruitful.  And Id also add that CCTV doesnt always 
show the detail wed need to help us, and it would be wrong to make any assumptions about 
what it might or might not have shown. Essentially, I think there was enough evidence here 
without the footage for RBS to reach a reasonable conclusion about what happened. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman