DRN-1587170
The complaint
Mr O complained about delays caused by Cofunds Limited in transferring his pension. 
What happened
Mr O wanted to move his pension to a Self-Invested Personal Pension ("SIPP")  held by 
another provider. The relevant forms were sent, and the process of selling the investments in 
Mr O's pension began on 19 December 2018. However, Cofunds made an error as it didn't 
cancel the default investment strategy on the pension. So when a tax rebate of £36.12 was 
received on 27 December that automatically got invested in error.
The final 'original' investment, with a value of around £15,000, was sold on 31 December. 
But it was not until 11 January 2019 that the 'tax refund' investment was sold. Cofunds 
eventually transferred the cash from the sold investments to Mr O on 18 January. It said the 
'tax refund' investment needed to be sold as it couldn't do a partial transfer, which ultimately 
led to the delay in the pension being transferred.
The essence of Mr O's complaint is that during this time the money was left uninvested and 
he lost out on potential reinvestment growth.
Cofunds apologised to Mr O for the unsatisfactory service it provided, and it offered him a 
total of £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr O remained 
unhappy as he didn't see why the cash transfer of the pension needed to be delayed for the 
sake of £36.12. He pointed out that other residual amounts were later added to his pension 
and then transferred out. He felt the bulk of the pension should have been transferred much 
earlier.
Our investigator felt the transfer should have happened on 3 January were it not for the 
delay; and because of the delay Mr O was unable to reinvest the funds in the new SIPP 
earlier. The transfer was delayed by 11 working days. He felt Cofunds should calculate any 
loss Mr O might have suffered by comparing the actual performance of his new SIPP with 
what the performance would have been had Mr O made each of his new investments 11 
working days earlier than he did. And if that comparison showed that Mr O suffered a loss, 
Cofunds should compensate him for that. Our investigator didn't think it was appropriate for 
any comparison to be made with the original investment/SIPP as Mr O's funds would never 
have been invested there had the transfer gone through without delay.
Our investigator also thought the £400 compensation Cofunds had offered for the distress 
and inconvenience caused was fair.
Cofunds agreed with our investigator's conclusion but Mr O didn't. He accepted our 
investigator had upheld the complaint and found Cofunds to be at fault. But he disagreed 
with the method of calculating any potential compensation. He felt it fairer to calculate any 
losses based on his investments in his original pension. The points he made included:
what he would have done had there not been a delay is irrelevant as the transfer 
delay wasn't due to his mistakeit's not fair to make assumptions about what he would have done, or to use the funds 
he invested in for the new SIPP, as a comparison
he didn't re-invest all the funds as soon as he received them
if the transfer had been made on 3 January he might have made different investment 
choices
the only concrete benchmark is the difference in the original fund value over the 
delayed period. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I don't uphold complaints just because a business did something wrong or treated a 
customer unfairly - that's because I don't have the power to fine or punish businesses. In 
deciding a complaint like this I ask myself two questions:
did the business do something wrong and/or treat the consumer unfairly? (NB - I 
don't usually need to investigate or know why something went wrong; it's usually 
enough for me to know that something did go wrong); and
was the consumer disadvantaged or did they suffer unnecessarily?
 
I will only uphold a complaint if the answer to both questions is 'yes'. 
I think the delay here was more in respect of the transfer being made once the main 
investments had been sold rather than in the selling of those investments. Excluding the 
weekends and Christmas holidays, it took around six working days for the investments to be 
sold. I don't think that was unreasonable. So, allowing a further two working days to make 
the transfer once all the funds were in cash and available, I agree with our investigator that 
Cofunds should reasonably have completed the transfer on 3 January. Cofunds has already 
accepted that it made a mistake and that the transfer of Mr O's pension was delayed beyond 
3 January because of that mistake. I don't therefore think it's necessary for me to dwell on 
that further.
So the only issue for me to decide is in respect of the second question.
When deciding a complaint like this I try to make sure, as much as is possible, that a 
consumer is put back into the position they would have been in had the mistake not 
happened. I don't know if Mr O was disadvantaged financially due to the delayed transfer, 
no-one will know until some sort of comparison is done. But I disagree with Mr O's view that 
what he would have done is irrelevant for any comparison. It is relevant because to see if he 
was disadvantaged:
it needs to be established what he would have done had the transfer been made on 3 
January as it should have, and
the value of his pension now needs to be compared with what it would have been 
worth if the transfer had happened as it should have.
 
I also disagree with Mr O about the comparison being made with the original investment. 
That's because from 31 December his investments had been sold as instructed. This always 
would have happened. So it wouldn't be fair to assume they should have been invested in his original pension for longer. So I consider the ongoing performance of the original 
investment to be irrelevant.
I accept what Mr O said about his choices on how to invest the funds possibly being different 
if the transfer had been made on 3 January rather than 18 January. But that doesn't mean 
it's irrelevant, or that I shouldn't think about it in order to decide appropriate compensation. In 
most cases like this it's never known precisely what a consumer would have done. So I 
must consider/decide what most likely would have happened given all the circumstances. 
And as we know what Mr O did once the transfer had been made, I think in order to resolve 
this complaint it's fair to conclude that's what he most likely would have done had the 
transfer been made on 3 January.
So, I conclude that in order to calculate any loss Mr O might have suffered, a direct 
comparison needs to be made between the value of his pension as it stands now, and the 
value it would have been now had Mr O made the same investment choices in his SIPP 11 
working days earlier than he did. And if that comparison shows that Mr O has suffered a 
loss, Cofunds needs to compensate Mr O for that loss.
Cofunds has offered Mr O a total of £400 in recognition of the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience it caused him as a result of the transfer being delayed. I think that's fair in the 
circumstances - it's in the region of what I would have made Cofunds pay had there been no 
offer on the table.
Putting things right
Cofunds should compensate Mr O for any loss he suffered as a result of the delay in it 
transferring his pension. The loss should be calculated as follows:
calculate what the current value of the transferred funds would be had Mr O made 
each of his investment choices in his SIPP 11 working days earlier that he actually 
did ("A")
calculate the current value of the transferred funds in Mr O's SIPP ("B")
subtract "B" from "A" to get "C"
 
If "C" is a positive number that is the loss Mr O suffered. If "C" is a negative number there's 
been no loss and Cofunds doesn't have to pay any further compensation.
If there is a loss, Cofunds should pay into Mr O's pension plan to increase its value by the 
total amount of compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Cofunds is unable to pay the total amount into Mr O's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr O's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr O is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of 
tax. However, if Mr O would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Cofunds deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr O how much it has taken off. Cofunds should give Mr O a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Cofunds Limited to pay Mr O compensation as calculated 
and directed under 'Putting things right' above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman