DRN-3963787
The complaint
Ms C complained that the Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax were at fault when it came 
to administering personal information that she provided to them at a branch in 2021.
What happened
In February 2022 Ms C contacted Halifax to request information about when copies of 
personal identification paperwork had been provided to a Halifax branch (in respect of 
adding a party to her fathers account). She was told the branch would send this information 
to her. It is agreed that the paperwork was provided to the branch in 2021.
In March 2022 Ms C contacted Halifax to say she hadnt received this information and 
wanted to complain. Ms C told Halifax the paperwork had been taken into the branch on 2 
July 2021 and she set out what she said had happened. Ms C was unhappy shed needed to 
call Halifax about this. Halifax apologised to Ms C that it didnt look like her request had 
progressed to the branch. Halifax paid Ms C £18 (said to be a refund of call costs for 90 
minutes) and £50 upholding her complaint.
In May 2022 Ms C contacted this service to tell us she had made a new complaint to Halifax 
about a data breach. Ms C went on to provide a summary setting out the details of the 
complaint she says was submitted to Halifax in March 2022. In this she describes in detail 
what she said happened in a branch on 2 July 2021, and who had been spoken to. She told 
us that on 2 July 2021 she handed in copies of her passport, her fathers driving licence and 
two utility bills at a Halifax branch. However, when she made a subject access request 
(SAR) to Halifax this paperwork wasnt listed or referenced so she thought it must have been 
lost. Ms C didnt think Halifax had replied to this complaint, although she told us she had 
received a response from Halifax on a matter she thought was separate.
Halifax sent us a copy of an email from a branch manager to a member of their customer 
service team in May 2022 confirming the manager had spoken to Ms C. The email says that 
the manager had let Ms C know the bank no longer had a copy of the paperwork as it had 
only been kept in line with General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and in any event was 
shredded after 30 days. The manager said in the email that Ms C wasnt happy but 
understood why this had happened.
Ms C felt this issue had wasted her time and made her worried as she didnt know where her 
personal information had been stored. She told us she wanted a reply from Halifax telling her 
where the copy of her paperwork was and confirming her visit to the branch with her 
paperwork (providing the date and time).
An investigator at this service reviewed what Ms C had said and shared some of his thinking.
Ms C agreed she had told the investigator she had knowledge around GDPR compliance. 
She said she wasnt suggesting Halifax ought not to have destroyed the copies of the 
paperwork once it had been used for the intended purpose; however she noted she had not 
said whether she did or did not believe Halifax had appropriately managed her personal 
data. She thought it was important to consider that if Halifax couldnt confirm a visit to a 
branch, how could Halifax know whether paperwork was stored or destroyed properly.
Investigators view
The investigator didnt think Halifax ought to be asked to do anything further. He accepted 
Halifax had destroyed the paperwork provided during a branch visit. He concluded Halifax 
had told Ms C this and so he didnt think they had failed to let her know where the 
information was being held.
The investigator didnt accept Halifax had done anything wrong when it came to their 
explanation of what had happened to the paperwork; nor did he think there was anything to 
support any implication their explanation ought not to be believed. He understood that Ms C 
didnt think there was enough to accept what Halifax said but he didnt agree. He thought it 
was more likely than not that Halifax would have done what they said had been done and 
this was in-line with their usual approach.
The investigator had seen what was said about Halifax failing to provide written confirmation 
of the paperwork being provided to a branch. But he thought Halifax had sufficiently 
confirmed what had happened and had not disputed there had been a visit and information 
provided. He explained that the dis-satisfaction in respect of the format of this confirmation 
was being considered as a separate matter. The investigator indicated that any wider 
concerns about the way Halifax followed the requirements around data protection might 
better be addressed to the Information Commissioners office (ICO).
The investigator set out that we consider each case on its own merits. He explained that our 
usual experience is that parties provide the material they consider relevant to their 
complaint, and it is for us to consider whether we have enough and if we require anything 
further. He let Ms C know hed particularly considered what she had told us about this 
complaint and what had been said about the paperwork having been destroyed.
Halifax provided a copy of a letter sent to Ms C in June 2022.
Ms Cs response to view
Following the investigators view, Ms C asked for details of when information had been 
provided to this service about a visit to a branch in 2021. The investigator explained he didnt 
think this query was relevant to this complaint. In any event the visit was not a matter in 
dispute before this service. Ms C went on to tell us she had made a SAR to this service, and 
it was a matter for us if we wanted to wait for her to provide this material when it came to this 
complaint.
 
Ms C also provided a copy of a letter from the ICO from July 2022. This sets out that Ms C 
contacted the ICO in 2022, who had then investigated her complaint. The ICO decided not to 
take any action against Halifax and Ms C didnt agree with this outcome. The ICO explained 
that as Halifax did not hold a record of her visit to the branch in July 2021 they could not 
provide information on the visit. The ICO noted that the legislation does not require Halifax to 
confirm a visit to a branch in July 2021 if they do not hold a record. And if Halifax were to 
refuse to confirm any visit to their branch this was not a matter for the ICO. The ICO also set 
out that Halifax did not have a copy of the paperwork Ms C provided in July 2021 as it had 
been securely destroyed after 30 days.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I am not upholding Ms Cs complaint about Halifax. In terms of this complaint I dont think 
there is persuasive evidence that Halifax did anything wrong when it came to the handling of, 
or destruction of Ms Cs data. This decision has only considered the complaint around what 
happened to the paperwork Ms C says she provided to Halifax in July 2021 and which 
Halifax has not disputed was provided.
I have seen reference to whether more material might be provided by Ms C following her 
SAR made to this service. We are an informal alternative to the courts as a dispute 
resolution service, and ultimately it is a matter for this service to consider whether it has 
sufficient material on which to come to a fair and just outcome on a complaint. The relevance 
and weight to be attributed to everything provided on a case is for the decision maker. I am 
satisfied I have enough information and understanding of the issues to reach a fair and 
impartial outcome.
Ms Cs complaint is about how Halifax administered (or failed to administer) the holding of 
Ms Cs personal identification paperwork provided in branch in 2021 as part of the 
application for her fathers account to be made into a joint account (with Ms C). Mr Cs 
Halifax account was changed into a joint account with Ms C at a later date (September 
2021).
Ms C was originally unhappy that the paperwork she provided to the branch was not shown 
on the information received when she made a SAR to Halifax. This was the complaint 
referred to us in May 2022. Ms C was also not happy she wasnt provided with a copy of this 
paperwork by Halifax.
I think things have moved on to some extent and I dont consider this original complaint has 
been pursued. For completeness I accept the reason provided by Halifax as to why the 
paperwork could not be provided when Ms C requested it some time later and why it was not 
shown in the information provided when she made her SAR to Halifax. The reason being 
that the copy of her paperwork had already been destroyed in-line with Halifaxs usual 
approach to such data.
Ms C doesnt say her paperwork ought not to have been destroyed within 30 days, (as 
Halifax say they did here). The crux of Ms Cs complaint is now that she does not know how 
she can be satisfied or how it can be said that Halifax did not make mistakes in how they 
handled the copies of her personal information, and so by implication whether it was 
destroyed or not. Ms C thinks that Halifax failed in other ways and so she says this 
undermines the reliance to be placed on Halifax doing things right here. In particular Ms C 
pointed to how Halifax dealt with her request of confirmation of an attendance at a branch 
and the request for the identification paperwork provided to the branch at the time. In due 
course the request for confirmation became a request for a letter of confirmation.
Halifax explained to Ms C that they couldnt provide a copy of the relevant paperwork and  
that it wasnt shown on the information she was given once she made her SAR, because the 
copies would have been destroyed by the time Ms C made her SAR. I accept this was the 
reason.
The internal email from the branch manager records the manager had spoken to Ms C in 
May 2022 and explained what had happened to the copies of the paperwork. I accept this 
conversation took place and I havent seen anything that persuades me Ms C wasnt given 
an explanation in this phone call about Halifaxs usual policy with such documents. I am 
satisfied that Halifax dont still hold a copy of the paperwork Ms C provided in 2021. I think 
its more likely than not this is because it was used for the purpose required and then 
destroyed in-line with Halifaxs usual policy (after 30 days).In reaching my decision I have taken account of the fact that Ms C says the paperwork was 
provided as part of the application for her fathers Halifax account to be made into a joint 
account. It is confirmed this happened in the weeks that followed. I have also taken into 
account the conclusions reached by the ICO. I am not persuaded there is enough to 
conclude it is more likely than not that Halifax either failed to administer the paperwork 
properly or that they may not have done so.
I have seen a copy of the letter Halifax sent to Ms C in June 2022. This was not provided to 
us by Ms C. This letter sets out how Halifax say they dealt with paperwork provided in 2021 
and refers to visits to a branch in May and July 2021. It also signposted where Ms C could 
find further information on Halifaxs data policy and hopes to reassure Ms C they had 
complied with their data protection requirements.
The information provided does not make me think Halifax might have failed in what they 
were required to do. Halifax provided their explanation of what happened and how they 
usually deal with the destruction of personal data. I am not persuaded they failed to follow 
their usual processes or that there is sufficient information to reasonably make me doubt 
Halifax did what they say they did. There might have been a delay in providing a written 
confirmation of information being provided to a branch, but this was provided. There does 
not appear to have been a substantive failure in confirming attendance overall. This 
complaint is not about the letter or its contents.
I am sorry Ms C feels she cant be satisfied Halifax did what they were required to do when 
handling her paperwork, but this doesnt mean they have done anything wrong. Halifax 
made a payment of £50 as well as a payment to reflect Ms Cs call charges. From what I 
have seen, it looks like this payment was intended to reflect failures in service and 
responding to Ms C across both this complaint and another one. I think this was fair and 
reasonable. As such I am not upholding this complaint and I am not requiring Halifax to do 
anything further
My final decision
For the reasons given I am not upholding Ms Cs complaint about Bank of Scotland plc  
trading as Halifax. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Ms C to accept or reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman