DRN-3810789
The complaint
Mr A and Mr I complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM) 
unfairly reported late payments to the credit reference agencies in relation to their 
mortgages. 
What happened
Mr A and Mr I held two mortgages with BM. In or around June 2022 they were looking to 
refinance the mortgages and move to a different lender when they noticed a late payment 
had been applied by BM on their credit files. They felt this would delay their attempts to 
complete the refinancing. 
Mr A and Mr I say they make the payments for the mortgages online via faster payments by 
the end of each month because theyd previously been victims of fraud, so they didnt like to 
leave large amounts sitting in their account. They felt that the transfer was immediate and 
said the payment was made on 30 April 2022 so felt the late payments had been applied 
unfairly. Mr A and Mr I asked BM to remove the late payment markers but after looking into 
things BM said it wasnt able to do this. Mr A and Mr I complained to BM about its refusal to 
remove the late payment markers. 
BM said the mortgage payments needed to be made by the 28th of each month, although if 
payments were made by the end of the month, it wouldnt normally record a late marker. BM 
say that Mr A and Mr Is April payment wasnt received until 3 May 2022, so it didnt think it 
had acted unfairly and it didnt uphold their complaint. 
Mr A and Mr I remained unhappy so referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
said BM hadnt made an error when it recorded the late payments for the mortgages 
because it was obliged to accurately report any missed or late payments and he was 
satisfied that Mr A and Mr Is payment for April 2022 was late. 
Mr A and Mr I didnt agree. They said that they made the payment by the end of the month 
and didnt feel it was their fault that the payment didnt arrive with BM until 3 May 2022. They 
said the payment left their account on 30 April 2022, so it was made in time. Because they 
didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A and Mr Is payments were due on the 28th of the month. BM have told us that it collects 
payments between the 1st and 28th of each month because every month has 28 days. But 
where a customer chooses to make payments by a different method (anything other than 
direct debit) their payments for the month must clear by with it by the end of the month. Mr A 
and Mr I decided to make manual payments each month, so it was for them to ensure that 
the payment reached BM by the end of the month.  
The general conditions of the mortgage set out that: 
Any payment will be credited to the borrowers mortgage account on the day it is 
received as cleared funds by the Lender.  
Mr A and Mr I say that Mr I is registered blind, and he wasnt made aware of the general 
mortgage conditions when he, in his sole name, took out the mortgages in 2008. But BM 
didnt recommend the mortgage to him at the time, and it seems he took this out through a 
broker, who would have needed to make him aware of the terms and conditions relating to 
the mortgage. And its likely that Mr A would have needed to agree to the general mortgage 
conditions when he was added to the mortgage. BM have also told us they havent been 
made aware of Mr Is disability, so overall I cant fairly say BM has done anything wrong 
here.
In any event, I can see both Mr A and Mr I were sent a letter in September 2021 to both their 
individual addresses which set out the payment date for the mortgages as the 28th of the 
month. It said because Mr A and Mr I werent paying by direct debit they would need to 
ensure that the payments reach the account on time. And if the payments didnt reach the 
account by the payment date their account could go into arrears.
I note Mr A and Mr I say they didnt receive these letters, but I have been provided copies of 
them and they are correctly addressed to them. And whilst I accept that not all post reaches 
its destination and recipients, it remains that the vast majority of correctly addressed post is 
correctly delivered. So in the absence of independent evidence to the contrary (for example, 
evidence that Mr A and Mr I were both experiencing postal problems at the time), on balance 
I am satisfied that the letters would, most likely, have been correctly received. So overall Im 
satisfied Mr A and Mr I should reasonably have been aware of when they needed to make 
the monthly payments. 
I appreciate this could cause problems for Mr A and Mr Is application for a new mortgage. 
But I dont think its fair and reasonable to require BM to remove the late payments. Ive 
explained why below. 
BM made Mr A and Mr I aware of the payment dates and also alternatives to making 
payments manually if they so wished. 
Mr A and Mr I say as long as they made the payments by the end of the month, their 
payments wouldnt show as late. BM say that is right. However, in this instance the 
payments werent made into the mortgage account by the end of the month. 
The payment was sent on 30 April 2022 which was a non-working day, and the 
following Monday was a bank holiday  so even though it was made via faster 
payments, as the payment was made on a non-working day the regulations say that 
the payment can take up to the next business day to be received.
Mr A and Mr I havent been able to provide evidence that they actioned the payments 
in the appropriate time, or that they arrived late due to a technical problem or bank 
error.
BM has to record accurate and up to date information with the credit reference 
agencies. Mr A and Mr I agreed to this when they took out the mortgages. The 
payments were late, and theres no evidence this was due to an error by BM. I dont 
think it was incorrect or unfair to record the late payments.
BM fairly considered Mr A and Mr Is request to remove the adverse data. I think it fairly considered the information provided by Mr A and Mr I that they made the 
payments on time. But I dont think it was unreasonable for BM to come to the 
conclusions that the payments had been received late.
I know Mr A and Mr I will be disappointed. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to require 
BM to remove the late payments from their credit files.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman