DRN-3535703
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Acromas Insurance Company Limited unfairly withdrew cover 
under a legal expense claim.
In this decision references to Acromas include the agents that handled the claim on 
Acromas behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M held a home insurance policy, which had cover for legal expenses.
Mr and Mrs M initiated a personal injury claim (for Mrs M) and at first, Acromas panel 
solicitors considered there were reasonable prospects of success. Prospects of success of 
51% or more were required for the claim to move forward and this is what happened. But the 
proposed defendants solicitors denied liability and Acromas panel solicitors withdrew cover 
after considering the matter again in light of the denied liability.
Mr and Mrs M continued with the litigation on a private paying basis using their own 
appointed solicitor. According to Mr and Mrs M they succeeded at court although they Mrs M 
was held 30% contributory negligent. As theyve incurred legal fees of around £1,400, they 
think Acromas should pay this given they won and it shows Acromas was wrong to withdraw 
cover.
Our investigator didnt think Acromas had acted unfairly. She explained Acromas solicitors 
on reviewing the claim considered the matter distilled down to one partys word against the 
other and so prospects of success were no better than 50/50. She said Acromas acted fairly 
in relying on suitably qualified legal advice.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed ostensibly on the basis that the court accepted that neither Mr nor 
Mrs M could have physically moved an object that caused the injury.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue for me to determine is whether it was, in all the circumstances, fair and reasonable 
for Acromas to have withdrawn cover when it did, and whether it should make any 
contribution to the legal fees Mr and Mrs M incurred in successfully litigating their case.
Given insurers are not legal experts its expected that they access suitably qualified experts 
when obtaining a legal opinion on a proposed claim. Mr and Mrs Ms claims prospects were 
overseen by a senior associate solicitor. And the policy allows Acromas to withdraw cover 
when there are no longer prospects of success, that is where they fall below 51%.
It's apparent that Acromas panel solicitors reconsidered the claims prospects of success on 
receiving the defendants denial of liability. The panel solicitors wrote to Mr and Mrs M 
detailing the challenges with proving the case in light of the defendants position including 
the duty on Mrs M to exercise reasonable care. The solicitors explained the case boiled 
down to one partys word against the other regarding a particular object that was the cause 
of the injury. Acromas accepted the solicitors advice that in these circumstances the 
prospects of success were 50/50 and Im satisfied it was fair for Acromas to rely on the panel 
solicitors advice. And as the policy terms allowed Acromas to withdraw cover in such 
circumstances Im satisfied that decision was exercised fairly.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M were successful in court and ultimately won their case. But since, 
according to Mr and Mrs M, the judge held Mrs M 30% contributory negligent that for me 
validates the panel solicitors advice was based on all the relevant information, and 
prospects of success were clearly uncertain. The judge had the benefit of hearing evidence 
under oath where, presumably, parties were subjected to cross examination and so the 
judge was able to reach an outcome with the benefit of hearing and seeing all the relevant 
parties, and assessing their credibility. The panel solicitors were not in that position when 
assessing the prospects of success at the point they did.
I note that Mr and Mrs M were advised by the panel solicitors that they could obtain a legal 
opinion at their own expense. But its not apparent from the information Ive seen that Mr and 
Mrs M ever reverted to Acromas with a legal opinion on the prospects of success. It appears 
that Mr and Mrs M only reverted to Acromas after the case they privately funded reached the 
end of the court process around two years after Acromas had withdrawn cover. Even if Mr 
and Mrs M had obtained a favourable prospects of success opinion theres nothing to show 
this would have been based on any different information to what the panel solicitors had. 
Ultimately Mr and Mrs M have explained the impact of the oral evidence in court and how the 
judge assessed the evidence presented at trial. And so, theres nothing to persuade me that 
there would be a different outcome had Mr and Mrs M provided their own prospects of 
success assessment given it was, as the panel solicitors said, one partys word against the 
other.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman