DRN-3008976
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited treated him when he renewed 
his policy. 
What happened
Mr W had a private medical insurance policy with AXA. He initially sourced the policy 
through an adviser in 1998 and this continued to be renewed, by the adviser, until 2019 
when Mr W took over the handling of the policy on a non-advised basis. In 2020, Mr W 
asked for a cheaper renewal price and was offered a no claims discount (NCD) scheme, in 
addition to the premium waiver hed regularly received at renewal. 
Mr W said hed never been offered this option before and so he complained to AXA as he 
felt hed been missing out on cheaper premiums. The insurer said itd discussed this option 
previously with Mr Ws adviser, but it was never taken forward. AXA said the adviser opted 
to change cover options, like increasing the policy excess, to help reduce the monthly 
premiums instead. However, AXA said it should have perhaps offered this directly to Mr W 
when he began administering the policy for himself in 2019. 
To put things right, AXA said it would retrospectively apply the NCD to the overall price of 
the policy and compare whether it would have saved Mr W money. It said that should that be 
the case, it would refund the difference he paid for his policies. Mr W was happy with that, 
however, he was unhappy with the way AXA calculated the overall discount because he said 
it didnt include the usual two-months premium waiver hed enjoyed previously. Mr W would 
like this applied to the overall cost of the policy in addition to the NCD. 
AXA offered the difference in price for the 2019 policy had the NCD been added from then. 
After retrospectively applying it, AXA calculated Mr W would have saved £226.80, and so it 
refunded this to Mr W. AXA also applied the NCD to the 2020 policy and reduced the cost of 
his premiums to reflect this. 
But Mr W didnt think that was right. He said AXA should refund him £784.48  which 
included the NCD plus the usual two-months premium waiver. 
Our investigator agreed with AXA. She said that AXAs able to use its discretion to offer 
incentives and discounts and that it doesnt automatically mean Mr W was entitled to receive 
premium waivers each time his policy renewed. 
Mr W, unhappy with this, asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. Hed like AXA to 
reduce the cost of his policy as set out above. And so, its for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint because Im not persuaded that AXAs made an 
error. Ill explain why. 
Mr W regularly received discounted renewal prices as AXA had waived monthly premiums in 
the past as an incentive for him to continue with its cover. In 2019, Mr W began 
administering his own policy and AXA continued to offer him a reduced premium. 
In 2020, Mr W challenged the renewal cost of his policy as he thought it was too expensive. 
During this discussion, AXA mentioned he was eligible to enrol on a NCD incentive. Mr W 
asked why that hadnt been offered previously, but AXA said it had. Being sure that wasnt 
the case, Mr W raised a separate complaint about his broker, which Im also considering 
separately to this complaint, because he said this was never discussed with him.
AXA effectively said that Mr W could only have one incentive per policy  either the NCD, or 
two months worth of premium waivers. AXA said it would effectively rework the cost of Mr 
Ws policy to see which would have been the cheaper option. 
To do this, AXA took the original cost of the policy, and applied the NCD. Its important to 
note that AXA didnt use the figure Mr W paid in 2019 as this had already been reduced by 
the premium waiver incentive. When I refer to the original cost of the policy I mean the base 
cost. This is the original figure without any deductions or incentives applied. AXA determined 
the NCD was a better option for Mr W because it was cheaper. And so, it refunded the 
difference between the two figures. 
I thought that was the right thing to do because AXA said it was most likely, on balance, that 
Mr W would have preferred the NCD option because the price was lower. However, Mr W 
said that hed rather benefit from both incentives simultaneously. So he argued that AXA 
should apply the NCD to the amount he paid in 2019. He said this would have been most 
likely outcome as he would have argued to benefit from both incentives. 
AXA challenged this and so did our investigator. In summary, both referred to the policy 
terms about discounts and said it was AXAs commercial right to decide how to offer and 
apply discounts and any incentives. And to be clear I agree with that. 
Mr Ws 2020 and 2021 renewal was inclusive of both incentives, the NCD plus 
approximately two-months premium reduction. And so, I can understand why Mr W would 
like AXA to apply the same enhanced package to his 2019 renewal cost, but its refused to 
do that. It wouldnt be fair for this service to compel AXA to offer both incentives because as 
explained earlier, this is, and remains, AXAs commercial right to decide. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
Scott Slade 
Ombudsman