DRN-1662800
 
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
to Mrs A. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1995. Barclays sold Mrs A the 
policy when she applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs A disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs A and her representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mrs A has said the optionality of the PPI wasnt made clear during the sales process. 
However it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence. Where someone has said another person or organisation has done 
something wrong, fairness requires that the person making the allegation should present 
evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they 
didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago. And in fact Ive 
seen a copy of the application form Mrs A signed, and I can see that it gives the option of 
ticking either yes or no to PPI  and the yes box has been ticked. 
So, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mrs As informed 
consent. 
I dont think Barclays didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs As 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. 
Its difficult now to know how well Barclays explained the PPI. Its possible the information 
Barclays gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont think 
full information about costs and benefits would have affected whether she took the PPI. I say 
this because, in her circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less 
useful. The PPI could have paid out for longer than her full sick pay lasted, and would have 
been on top of any sick pay and any redundancy pay. And, from what shes told us, it 
doesnt look like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs A about that. Because Barclays didnt tell 
Mrs A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs A.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs A any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, and 
so Im not awarding any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman