DRN-3030902
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr L says Nationwide Building Society (NBS) mis-sold him PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ls 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Ls representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ls. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
Mr L has said the PPI was included as part of the credit card package, but I think NBS 
made it clear that Mr L didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. I say 
this because the application was made by post so would have been completed by Mr L 
in his own time and without any intervention from an NBS representative. 
NBS has been able to give us a copy of the application form and credit agreement. This 
has been completed by hand and signed and dated by Mr L. I see that Mr L has ticked 
the relevant box to confirm he wanted to take the PPI. There was an equally prominent 
box Mr L could have ticked if he hadnt wanted it. So, taking this into account, I think Mr L 
was aware he had a choice about taking the PPI and decided to take it upon application 
of his credit card.  
NBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L  so it didnt have to check that the PPI was right 
or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr L enough clear and timely information so he 
could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information NBS gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out  so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr L. 
Although Mr L says he had a medical condition some time before the policy was taken 
out, I dont think better information about the existing medical condition exclusion 
wouldve caused him to change his mind about taking out the policy. I say this because 
the condition Mr L told us about occurred around two years before he took the policy. We 
asked him for further information about the condition but didnt hear back from him. In the 
absence of anything to suggest that Mr L did suffer from any ongoing problems because 
of the condition it suggests its unlikely that he would have thought he would have 
needed to have made a claim on the policy because of it. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems. 
Mr L has said he was financially stretched at the time, but I havent seen anything to 
suggest it was unaffordable for him  so it seems like it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr L would have declined the cover 
had NBS done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr L would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting, and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ls representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant NBS should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Ls representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ls individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ls particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means NBS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman