DRN-3069070
The complaint
Mrs F and Ms S are unhappy with how ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschaf (ERGO) 
handled a claim they made under their household insurance policy. Most of our services 
contact has been with Mrs F, so to keep things simple Ill refer only to her in my decision.
 
What happened
The history of this complaint is detailed and well known to all parties, so here Ill set out only 
what I think is the relevant background to what Mrs F is unhappy with. 
In 2019 Mrs F bought a non-standard household insurance policy from ERGO, through a 
broker. In early 2020, she claimed under the policy as a storm had blown down a tree and 
damaged the treehouse built around it. 
ERGO sent a loss adjuster to inspect. ERGO provisionally declined Mrs Fs claim, as it 
thought shed misrepresented the business activities at her property when she bought the 
policy. But in April 2020 ERGO accepted Mrs Fs explanation about this and said it would 
proceed to settle her claim. 
Over the following months there was ongoing communication between Mrs F and ERGO 
regarding settlement of the claim. Mrs F also contacted our service. Mrs F obtained quotes 
for removing the damaged tree and treehouse, and reinstating the treehouse. Mrs F also 
wanted ERGO to pay for a mature replacement tree. 
ERGO sent a second loss adjuster to inspect the damage being claimed for. ERGOs 
surveyor later estimated the cost of removing the damaged tree and treehouse, and 
reinstating the treehouse. However, ERGO thought Mrs F had made a further 
misrepresentation when she bought the policy by not disclosing the treehouse. ERGO also 
thought Mrs Fs quotes for reinstating the treehouse amounted to betterment, because the 
original treehouse was constructed using reclaimed materials. 
Mrs F was unhappy with how ERGO was handling her claim. In September 2020 ERGO 
gave its final response and didnt uphold Mrs Fs complaint. ERGO said it wasnt told about 
the treehouse when Mrs F applied for the policy. That had it been told, it would only have 
covered the treehouse for the perils of fire, lightning, explosion, earthquake, aircraft  so 
storm damage to the treehouse wouldnt have been covered. But ERGO confirmed it had 
nonetheless agreed to consider the cost of repair to the treehouse under the policy, with the 
settlement amount still being discussed. ERGO said it wouldnt pay for a replacement tree, 
as there was no cover for loss or damage to trees - the policy only referred to damage 
caused by falling trees, and trees werent included within any policy definitions. 
In September 2020 ERGO offered Mrs F £15,000 in full settlement of her claim, but she 
didnt accept this. Soon after, ERGO increased its offer to £20,000, but Mrs F still didnt 
accept. Unhappy, Mrs F asked our service to look into ERGOs settlement of her claim and 
explained that reinstating the treehouse required planning permission. 
In August 2021 our investigator said ERGO had ultimately accepted Mrs Fs claim, and 
thought a fair and reasonable outcome was for ERGO to pay Mrs F a cash settlement. She 
said ERGO should pay Mrs F £2,628 (including VAT) for the tree and damaged treehouse to 
be removed, and a further £35,294 (including VAT) for the treehouse to be designed and 
reinstated. Our investigator said a replacement tree wasnt covered under the policy. 
Mrs F accepted our investigators view. ERGO accepted it should pay the tree and damaged 
treehouse removal costs of £2,628. But ERGO offered £25,000 as a fairer settlement for 
reinstatement of the treehouse. Mrs F disagreed with ERGOs offer and provided an updated 
quote showing treehouse reinstatement would now cost £40,524 (including VAT), as the cost 
of materials had risen significantly since the quote in July 2020.
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint came to me for a decision. I contacted 
Mrs F and ERGO to say I intended to ask ERGO to pay Mrs F £2,628 for the damaged tree 
and treehouse removal, and £40,524 for design and reinstatement of the treehouse. 
ERGO said the treehouse wasnt disclosed when Mrs F bought the policy and her broker 
wasnt responding to ERGO about that. It said it was entitled to adjust the settlement amount 
because of differences in materials and age, and it was betterment for new materials to be 
used in reinstating the treehouse rather than the repurposed materials it was originally built 
from, which went against the underlying principles of insurance. ERGO said Mrs Fs claim 
was on a like for like basis, so the planning permission wasnt needed as the treehouse 
design shouldnt be changing. But in any case, there was no policy cover for planning fees. 
And putting Mrs F back to the position she was in before her loss only extended to the cover 
provided by the policy. It said it wasnt for our service to rewrite the policy cover, regardless 
of how closely linked planning fees might be to reinstatement of the treehouse. 
Mrs F provided further comments and evidence, including explanations for why a planning 
application fee, planning consultant fees, and safety reinforcement costs for the damaged 
treehouse were necessary costs. 
I told Mrs F and ERGO I thought ERGO should also pay Mrs Fs £206 planning application 
fee, £1,080 planning consultant costs and £450 safety reinforcement costs. But that ERGO 
could deduct the £250 policy excess from the total settlement amount it paid Mrs F.
ERGO didnt provide any further comments or evidence for me to consider. 
Im now in a position to make my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mrs F and ERGO have provided a great deal of evidence and comments. But my 
decision wont mention everything thats been provided. I mean no discourtesy and Id like to 
reassure Mrs F and ERGO that Ive considered everything theyve provided. But my decision 
will only address what I see to be relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome 
regarding the crux of Mrs Fs complaint. And I think the crux of Mrs Fs complaint is about 
ERGO settling her claim. So thats what my decision will address.
When Mrs F claimed, ERGO thought shed made a misrepresentation and provisionally 
declined her claim. However, ERGO went on to accept Mrs Fs explanation and accepted 
her claim - its letter to Mrs F dated 1 April 2020 says it will proceed to settle your claim. And 
ERGOs final response letter to Mrs F dated 24 April 2020 says Following review of your correspondence, Insurers accepted your explanation in relation to the points it had raised 
and agreed that the claim would be covered under the policy. It goes on to say I do 
empathise with your position, as I understand that the preliminary view was upsetting for you 
and I would like to apologise, as this was not the aim of Insurers. However, I am pleased that 
upon review of the information provided, Insurers were happy to change their provisional 
view and confirm the claim would be settled accordingly. In view of this, I am satisfied that 
Insurers have considered the claim appropriately before reaching a decision.
I know ERGO later thought Mrs F had made another misrepresentation, by not disclosing the 
treehouse when she bought the policy. But I dont think this makes a difference in this 
particular complaint. I say that because the later misrepresentation ERGO raised is about 
Mrs F not disclosing the treehouse when she applied for the policy. This was the same 
treehouse ERGO knew Mrs F was claiming for in early 2020. And in its letter dated 24 April 
2020, ERGO then told Mrs F it had considered her claim appropriately and would settle it. 
Therefore, Im satisfied ERGO has had the opportunity to assess the claim and information 
about this treehouse not being provided when Mrs F took out the policy should reasonably 
have been part of the information ERGO considered before it effectively affirmed Mrs Fs 
policy and accepted her claim. So in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable for ERGO to go back on its acceptance of the claim at a 
later date based on information it had known about for some time and prior to saying it would 
settle Mrs Fs claim.
Since ERGO accepted the claim in April 2020, the key dispute has been about what a fair 
and reasonable settlement amount should be. Ive thought about whether ERGO has offered 
Mrs F a fair settlement amount. Ill address each of the items Mrs M wants ERGO to pay for.
removal of the damaged tree and treehouse
Both ERGO and Mrs F accepted our investigators view that ERGO should pay Mrs F £2,628 
for the damaged tree and treehouse to be removed. As this is no longer in dispute, Ive not 
considered it further. 
a replacement tree
Mrs F feels very strongly that the policy covers a replacement tree, and points to policy 
terms that say there is cover for falling trees. Mrs F also suggests trees might be considered 
a fixture. ERGO says there is no cover for a replacement tree under the policy. 
Ive considered the policy conditions. They only provide cover for damage to buildings and 
contents caused by falling trees, not damage to falling trees themselves. Ive seen nothing in 
the policy terms to make me think trees or plants are covered or are intended to be covered, 
or that they could fairly be considered a fixture under this particular policy. Therefore, Im 
satisfied its fair for ERGO to conclude theres no cover for a replacement tree under the 
policy. 
reinstatement of the treehouse
ERGO has made increasing settlement offers to Mrs F for reinstatement of the treehouse, 
going up to £25,000 in September 2021. Mrs F has rejected these offers as insufficient. 
In mid-2020 Mrs F obtained a range of quotes for reinstating the treehouse. Only the quote 
from R dated 21 July 2020 was based on a physical inspection of what was required. This estimated that to replace a storm damaged Treehouse with a design that matches the 
original structure, contents and function as closely as possible using like for like materials 
would cost £26,495, with design, plans and site survey costing a further £3,500, and VAT a 
further £5,299. So R quoted a total of £35,294 for designing and reinstating the treehouse. 
In August 2020 ERGOs own surveyor produced an estimate of the cost of reinstating the 
treehouse. It said We have allowed in our estimate for using hardwood posts and other 
timber materials which may be from a reclaimed yard or new. It may be possible to reduce 
the overall cost of the materials if cheaper softwood reclaimed materials are used e.g. pallets 
etc. but the availability and suitability of such materials is uncertain. It should be noted that 
this is very much a bespoke structure and the preparation of a design, materials specification 
and schedule of works on which formal quotations can be invited would be the best way to 
determine the correct construction cost.
It goes on to estimate reinstating the treehouse in like for like materials would cost £25,772, 
with a further £1,289 (5%) for contingencies, plus £4,284 (15%) allowance for professional 
fees and surveys  the examples of these fees and surveys given in the estimate include 
architect, principal designer, planning consultant, and planning application fees. Therefore 
ERGOs estimate for reinstating the treehouse totals £31,345 excluding VAT. So setting VAT 
aside, ERGOs estimate was broadly in line with Mrs Fs quote from R. Given this and Rs 
quote being based on an inspection, Im satisfied its fair for the treehouse reinstatement 
costs to be based on Rs quote. 
But in September 2021 R updated its quote in light of rising materials costs, and the updated 
quote shows designing and reinstating the treehouse will now cost a total of £40,524 
(including VAT). Its my understanding that the cost of materials has broadly risen over the 
past year or two. And ERGO hasnt provided any comments on Rs updated quote. Taking 
all this into account, Im satisfied ERGO should pay Mrs F £40,524 for the design and 
reinstatement of the treehouse. This is because it is what I think it will cost Mrs F to have the 
treehouse rebuilt. And I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint should 
ensure she gets enough to do this. 
ERGO argues its entitled to reduce this amount because the treehouse was eight years old 
at the time of the loss, and because the treehouse was originally built of repurposed 
materials rather than new oak. ERGO says it is betterment otherwise.
It seems ERGO accepted this claim under the policys buildings cover. The policy terms 
and conditions say ERGO will settle buildings claims as follows:
If your claim for loss or damage is covered under section A (buildings), we will pay the full 
cost of repair as long as: 
 the buildings were in good state of repair immediately prior to the loss or damage and 
 the sum insured is enough to pay for full cost of rebuilding the buildings in their present 
form and the damage has been repaired or loss has been reinstated. 
We will take an amount off for wear and tear from the cost of any replacement or repair if 
immediately before the loss or damage the buildings were not in good state of repair.
ERGO has said the treehouse was eight year old but hasnt provided any evidence to show 
it wasnt in a good state of repair immediately prior to the loss. Mrs F has provided 
photographs of the treehouse before and after the loss, and copies of invoices for 
maintenance to the treehouse. Given all this, Im satisfied the treehouse was in a good state 
of repair immediately before the loss. I note ERGOs point about betterment. But Mrs F has explained the original treehouse was 
built in large part using new materials left over from separate building works to her home at 
that time. Mrs F has provided contemporaneous photographs to support that. It may be that 
previously used materials, as opposed to left over new materials, were also used originally. 
But Rs September 2021 quote says like for like materials will be used; it doesnt specify all 
new materials will be used. And ERGOs August 2020 estimate, which Ive said was broadly 
in line with Rs original quote, also allowed for reclaimed materials to be used, whilst 
acknowledging they might not always be available or suitable. For these reasons, I dont 
agree Rs September 2021 quote amounts to betterment or that its fair for ERGO to make a 
deduction for these reasons. 
planning costs
Mrs F asks that ERGO pay the £206 planning application fee and the £1,080 planning 
consultant fees shes been quoted. ERGO says Mrs Fs claim was on a like for like basis so 
planning permission wasnt needed, as the treehouse design shouldnt be changing, and 
theres no policy cover for planning fees. 
But I note the buildings section of the policy terms and conditions suggest planning costs 
are covered, because it says the following is covered:
Expenses you have to pay and which we have agreed in writing for
architects, surveyors, consulting engineers and legal fees
the cost of removing debris and making safe the building
costs you have to pay in order to comply with any Government or local authority 
requirements 
following loss or damage to the buildings which is covered under Section A
I also note ERGOs own August 2020 estimate of the treehouse reinstatement costs includes 
£4,284 for professional design, planning and planning application fees, and acknowledges 
the treehouse is a bespoke structure.
Mrs F has provided an email from her planning department that says Both 
repairing/rebuilding the existing structure and removing the structure and creating an entirely 
new treehouse equally require the benefit of planning permission. This is because a) the 
treehouse constitutes a raised platform and b) it is located within the grounds of a listed 
building and as such conflicts with two conditions of the GPDO 2015 [planning legislation]. It 
then goes on to specify what type of plans Mrs F must submit and recommends using a 
planning consultant or architect.
In addition, Mrs F explains the original treehouse design was determined by the shape of the 
original tree. And since the original tree is now damaged and cant remain, planning will 
likely want a treehouse design more in keeping with the listed building its in the grounds of. 
Mrs F has also explained both a planning consultant and the planning department have 
advised her that a change of use issue might arise again regarding the agricultural land 
the original treehouse was built on  the planning permission granted for the original 
treehouse included changing the land to domestic use. Mrs F says she was told the current 
state of the tree and treehouse mean theres a risk the use could revert to agricultural, and 
her planning application depended on showing the blueprint of the structure still stood.
Taking all this into consideration, Im satisfied the treehouse cant be reinstated without 
planning permission and that the complexities here mean a planning consultant is a 
reasonable cost. ERGO hasnt provided any comments regarding the planning application 
fee or the planning consultant quote Mrs F has provided. Therefore, Im satisfied the planning application fee and planning consultant fee are consequential losses of Mrs Fs 
original loss. Therefore, I think its fair and reasonable to ask ERGO to pay these costs, as it 
cant indemnify Mrs F as it agreed to in April 2020 unless planning permission is secured.
treehouse safety reinforcement cost
Mrs F has provided us with a £450 invoice for costs incurred for reinforcing the damaged 
treehouse so it wont collapse. ERGO hasnt provided any comments regarding this invoice. 
Mrs Fs original loss happened in early 2020. ERGO accepted the claim in April 2020 but the 
settlement amount has been disputed since then. ERGO has offered settlement amounts, 
but these were significantly below what I think is fair and reasonable. So this matter has 
gone on for a long time now. Mrs F has explained that time and weather meant she was 
increasingly concerned about the damaged treehouse collapsing, which she says would 
disadvantage the necessary planning application and isnt safe for her and her family, or her 
animals. Taking all this into account, I think its fair and reasonable for ERGO to reimburse 
this £450 reinforcement cost. 
policy excess
This isnt an issue raised by either Mrs F or ERGO, and they havent provided comments 
about it. But for completeness, Im satisfied ERGO can deduct the £250 policy excess from 
the total cash settlement amount ERGO pays Mrs F. Thats because the policy terms mean 
Mrs F would always have paid this excess in the event of a successful claim.
Putting things right
Taking everything into consideration, ERGO should pay Mrs F a cash settlement for the 
following:
£2,628 for removal of the damaged tree and damaged treehouse.
£40,524 for design and reinstatement of the treehouse.
£206 for the statutory planning application fee. 
£1,080 for planning consultant fees.
£450 for treehouse safety reinforcement costs.
This gives a total of £44,888. But from this, ERGO can deduct the policy excess of £250. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschaf should pay Mrs F and 
Ms S a cash settlement totalling £44,888. But it can deduct the £250 policy excess from this. 
This leaves an amount of £44,638.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman