DRN-4085910
The complaint
Mr R, as trustee, complains that Scottish Equitable Plc, trading as Aegon, unfairly declined 
an insurance claim he made, following the death of his wife, Ms C.
What happened
The history of events is well known to the parties. In summary, on 30 May 2018, Ms C 
applied for life insurance, via her financial advisor. The policy commenced on 20 July 2018.
Most unfortunately, in August 2018, Ms C was diagnosed with cancer. After surgery in 
October 2018, she made a good recovery. But very sadly, her cancer returned in late 2020 
and Ms C died shortly thereafter. 
Mr R subsequently claimed on the policy, but in March 2022, Aegon declined the claim. It 
said Ms C hadnt accurately answered questions asked during the application process about 
her health - specifically, about symptoms of possible breast disorders. It considered this to 
be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, but said that, had it been aware of the symptoms 
at the time of application, ultimately it would not have offered cover. This entitled it to avoid 
the policy and decline the claim. It refunded the premiums Ms C had paid towards the policy. 
Mr R later complained, but Aegon rejected his complaint. So he brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator didnt think it should be upheld. She agreed 
thered been a qualifying misrepresentation. She thought Aegon had fairly categorised the 
misrepresentation as careless  rather than deliberate or reckless  and was satisfied Aegon 
had shown that, had Ms C fully disclosed, it wouldnt have offered cover at all. Given that, 
she thought Aegon had acted fairly in avoiding Ms Cs policy and refunding the premiums 
paid.
Mr R didnt accept the investigators view. Amongst other things, he questioned the reliability 
of the medical records which showed inconsistencies and said Ms C, as a medical 
professional, had no concerns about her health when she applied for the policy. 
Mr R requested an ombudsmans decision, so his complaint has come to me for a final 
determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I was extremely sorry to read of Ms Cs death and offer my sincere condolences to 
her family. But having carefully reviewed everything, Im not upholding this complaint. I know 
this will be very unwelcome news for Mr R. So Id like to explain my reasoning, focusing on 
the points and evidence I consider material to my decision. If I dont refer to a particular point 
or piece of evidence, its not because I havent thought about it. Rather, I dont consider it 
changes the outcome of the complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Aegon says Ms C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
answered no to the following questions on her application form:
Other than previously stated, in the last five years have you had, been treated for or 
been advised to have follow-up forany breast disorders, for example lumps, cysts, 
nipple discharge or inverted nipple, or an abnormal mammogram? 
Are you awaiting the results of any investigations or are you aware of any symptoms 
or complaints that you havent consulted a doctor or received treatment for?
The medical records show that Ms C consulted her GP on 9 August 2018. The history is 
recorded as:
R breast lump 1 month
Bilateral nipple discharge, yellow, 2 months during periods. 
Under the comment section, its noted that Ms C was referred to the breast clinic. 
Ms C was seen at the breast clinic on 21 August 2018. In a follow-up letter to her GP, the 
consultant records the clinical symptoms as:
The patient has symptoms of nipple discharge on the bilateral side which have been 
present for 5 months. 
Im aware that any failure to disclose a lump was subsequently conceded by Aegon, but in 
any event, didnt make a difference to the decision to decline the claim, which was based on 
Ms Cs specific cancer diagnosis. I also acknowledge theres some discrepancy in these 
records regarding the onset of symptoms. But what is consistent is that shortly after the 
policy commenced, Ms C spoke to her GP and then a consultant about nipple discharge, 
reporting symptoms of some months duration. 
The consultants record puts the onset of symptoms as March 2018. Mr R has made detailed 
arguments regarding Ms Cs completion of the form, in particular that she would never have 
intentionally misled Aegon and that, with her medical knowledge, she had self-diagnosed, 
concluding her symptoms were hormonal and linked to the menopause. In other words, they 
were not symptomatic of a disorder. But theres a specific warning on the application form not to make any personal assessment about whether the information was relevant or not. 
That was the job of the underwriter. 
In answering questions, the standard of care required is that of the reasonable consumer. I 
think the reasonable consumer would understand that the question regarding breast 
disorders is seeking to draw out any atypical or unusual events or symptoms in relation to 
the breasts. The question gives examples of the sorts of things the insurer is looking for 
under its category of breast disorder, including nipple discharge. Im satisfied the question 
was clear and consequently, assuming Ms Cs symptoms predated her application, that she 
failed to take reasonable care when answering both questions cited by Aegon.
But even if I were to take just the shorter of the two timeframes cited  that is, two months 
prior to 9 August 2018, Ms C should still have disclosed to Aegon a change in her health 
circumstances between her application at the end of May and the start of the policy on 20 
July. 
On page 2 of the application form theres a section called Important notes for the customer. 
It starts by telling the customer to read the following important information carefully before 
filling in the application form. Amongst other things, it says:
The questions asked in this application form cover the facts that we think are 
important to our assessment of the application.
When answering a question, youre personally responsible for making sure youve 
given complete and accurate information. You shouldnt make any personal 
assessment about whether the information is relevant or not, or assume well write to 
your doctor for medical information. 
You must tell us in writing if theres any change in your circumstances between 
completion of this application and the start date of the policy. In particular you must 
tell us if there are changes in your health, for example if you suffer symptoms that 
youve already seen or may need to see a doctor for, or if youre having any form of 
medical investigation.
If you dont give full and accurate information, as detailed above, all the protection 
provided by the policy could be lost or cancelled in the event of a claim.
And after the questions sections, on the declaration and consent page of the application 
form, at section 13.6, it says:
I understand its my personal responsibility to tell you, in writing, about any change to 
my health and/or circumstances which happen before this policy starts.
The declaration, which Ms C signed, reiterates the warning to applicants of the potential 
consequences of non-compliance with the disclosure requirements, including that cover may 
be cancelled and no claim will be payable. 
 
And notably, there are similar statements and warnings on the documents Ms C received 
when terms were offered and the policy commenced. So Im satisfied Ms C failed to take 
reasonable care by not disclosing any change in her health circumstances to Aegon 
between her application and the policy going live.
Mr R has also raised a question about missing medical evidence which, for completeness, 
Id like to comment on. Mr R is concerned that Ms C attended a medical in June/July 2018, 
about which Aegon has not disclosed records. He was understandably keen to know if Ms C was asked questions at this medical regarding nipple discharge. In other words, did Aegon 
have actual or constructive knowledge of the nipple discharge prior to offering terms. 
Having reviewed all the documents, Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that a medical 
examination took place. What I have seen is Aegons request to Ms Cs GP for a medical 
report, dated 1 June 2018 and noted on her GP record as received 13 June 2018. By way of 
explanation, this is a paper exercise where the insurer sends out a standard questionnaire 
for the GP to complete. The questionnaire covers, for example, current and past medical 
care and treatment, outstanding test results, time off work and family history. It is based on 
medical records only. 
I also note that Ms Cs last appointment with her GP, prior to 9 August 2018, was 15 
December 2017, regarding travel vaccinations. The only other health contact Ms C had in 
that period was in relation to her participation in a longitudinal study of people the same age 
as her. So Im satisfied the medical examination Mr R is understandably concerned about 
wasnt an examination but is the GP report to Aegon  completed 16 July 2018  detailing 
Ms Cs basic health circumstances. Id like to reassure Mr R that Ive seen that report and 
can confirm it contains only factual information and no negative disclosures about Ms Cs 
health. Notably, theres no reference to nipple discharge because, at the time it was 
produced, Ms C had not consulted her GP about that issue. 
So in respect of the nipple discharge, I think Ms C failed to take reasonable care not to make 
a misrepresentation, either when applying for the policy, or between application and 
commencement. So I now need to consider whether the misrepresentation was a qualifying 
one under CIDRA, that is, would Aegon have come to a different decision about cover had it 
been given correct information. 
Aegon has provided evidence from its underwriting guidance. This shows that if Ms C had 
declared her symptoms it wouldve postponed the application pending further investigations. 
However, following Ms Cs diagnosis, it would not have offered cover at all. So Im satisfied 
Ms Cs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Aegon has treated the misrepresentation as careless. This means Aegon didnt consider Ms 
C had deliberately or recklessly misrepresented, and given the possible explanation for her 
actions put forward by Mr R, I think this was a fair categorisation. 
CIDRA sets out the actions an insurer can take where a misrepresentation is careless. 
Aegon has acted in line with CIDRA by avoiding Ms Cs policy, declining the claim and 
refunding the premiums paid. I think that was reasonable in all the circumstances. Im 
therefore not going to ask Aegon to do anything more in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint about Scottish Equitable 
Plc, trading as Aegon. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R as Trustee of 
the C Trust to accept or reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Jo ChilversOmbudsman