DRN-3964331
Complaint
Miss B complains that Advantage Finance Ltd (Advantage Finance) unfairly entered into a 
hire-purchase agreement with her. Shes said she was in financial difficulty when she applied 
for the credit and so shouldnt have been accepted for it. 
Background
In November 2017, Advantage Finance provided Miss B with finance for a used car. The 
cash price of the vehicle was £5,990.00 and Miss B paid a deposit of £100. Miss B applied 
for a loan to cover the remaining £5,890.00 The loan had interest, fees and total charges of 
£2,929.80 (comprising of interest of £2,429.80, an acceptance fee of £325 and an option to 
purchase fee of £175), and the total amount to be repaid of £8,919.80 was due to be repaid 
in 29 monthly instalments of £288.16 and one final payment of £463.16. 
In October 2022, Miss B complained that the payments to this hire purchase agreement 
were unaffordable and so the finance should never have been provided to her. Advantage 
Finance looked at the complaint and didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the checks 
completed before the agreement was entered into confirmed that the finance was affordable 
and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Miss Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that 
Advantage Finance had done anything wrong or treated Miss B unfairly. So she didnt 
recommend that Miss Bs complaint should be upheld. Miss B disagreed with our adjudicator 
and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Bs complaint. 
Advantage Finance needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what 
this means is that Advantage Finance needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Miss B could make her payments in a sustainable manner before 
agreeing to lend to her. And if the checks Advantage Finance carried out werent sufficient, I 
then need to consider what reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Miss Bs complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Advantage Finance says it agreed to this application after it completed an income and 
expenditure assessment on Miss B. During this assessment, Miss B provided details of her 
monthly income and payslips to verify what shed declared. 
Advantage Finance says it also carried out credit searches on Miss B which showed some 
outstanding balances. But when the amount Miss B already owed plus a reasonable amount 
for Miss Bs living expenses, based on statistical data from the Office of National Statistics, 
were deducted from her monthly income the monthly payments were still affordable. On the 
other hand, Miss B says he was already struggling at the time and that these payments were 
unaffordable.
Ive thought about what Miss B and Advantage Finance have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that much like our adjudicator, I dont think that the checks 
Advantage Finance carried out did go far enough. Advantage Finances searches showed 
that Miss B had had previous difficulties with credit. I can see arrears on an electricity 
account and defaults on other revolving credit accounts. In my view, Advantage Finance 
needed to take further steps to verify Miss Bs actual living costs, given what the credit 
search showed in order for its checks to have been proportionate. 
As Advantage Finance didnt carry out sufficient checks, Ive gone on to decide what I think 
Advantage Finance is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information 
from Miss B. Bearing in mind, the length of time of the agreement and the amount of the 
monthly payment, I would have expected Advantage Finance to have had a reasonable 
understanding about Miss Bs regular living expenses as well as her income and existing 
credit commitments. 
Ive considered the information Miss B has provided us with  including her bank statements. 
And having done so, this information does appear to show that when Miss Bs committed 
regular living expenses and existing credit commitments are deducted from her monthly 
income at the time, she did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the 
repayments due under this agreement. 
I appreciate that Miss B has said that she only had to end her pervious hire-purchase 
agreement due to an accident in September 2017 and if this hadnt had happened she 
wouldnt have taken out another further finance agreement. This may well be the case, but 
as she was no longer making the payments to her previous agreement when she applied for 
this one, I dont think its reasonable to include this as an ongoing expense for her.  
What Im required to think about here in order to determine whether Advantage Finance 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss B, is whether Miss B had sufficient disposable 
income to enable her to make the monthly payments to this agreement. And having 
considered everything, Im satisfied that the available information indicates that Miss B did 
have sufficient funds left over to make her monthly payments in a sustainable manner. 
  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that Advantage 
Finances checks before entering into this hire purchase agreement with Miss B did go far 
enough, Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have 
prevented Advantage Finance from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with her. Im therefore satisfied that Advantage Finance didnt act unfairly towards Miss B 
when it agreed to provide the funds and Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss B. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman