DRN-3759038
The complaint
Mr L complains that he hasnt received any advice from Cheshire Trafford UK Limited since 
November 2018, and little contact, but that its continued to charge him fees. He wants the 
fees refunded and compensation for the loss of potential investment return.
What happened
Cheshire Trafford provided investment advice to Mr L for investments held in his pension, 
ISA, and investment bond accounts. It charged him advisor fees and it received trail 
commission from his investments.
Mr L told us he received advice from different advisors up until 2017. His appointed advisor 
left Cheshire Trafford in November 2018. A new advisor made contact in May 2019 to 
arrange a meeting, but a meeting didnt take place and he then left. Another new advisor 
contacted him in March 2020, but he then left. A new advisor contacted him in January 2021 
and a meeting did take place. He says the advisor apologised that Mr L hadnt received the 
service he should have and offered a partial fee reimbursement. He received an 
acknowledgement of his complaint, but no further contact until he received a letter in 
September 2021 telling him Cheshire Trafford was going to be sold.
Mr L says fees continued to be debited until 27 October 2021.
Cheshire Trafford didnt provide a full or final response to Mr Ls complaint and it didnt
provide us with any information, despite numerous requests.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr L should
be given the current value of the units sold between November 2018 and the account 
closure that were used to fund the advice fees. And he thought Mr L should be paid £150 for 
the inconvenience caused.
Cheshire Trafford didnt respond.
Mr L provided a summary of the fees hed been charged in each of his accounts, and the 
trail commission, which totalled £5,216.55 for the period 1 November 2018 to 28 October 
2021. He said, in addition, he should also be compensated for the loss of growth in his 
investments because of Cheshire Traffords lack of management.
My provisional decision
I agreed with the investigator that the complaint should be upheld, but I thought the 
compensation should be adjusted slightly. I said:
Its disappointing that Cheshire Trafford hasnt provided us with any information 
about this complaint. In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Im satisfied from what Mr L has told us that he didnt receive the service he paid for 
from Cheshire Trafford for the period from November 2018. And that during this 
period he received minimal contact from Cheshire Trafford and no advice. Its not fair 
that hes paid for a service that he didnt receive, and I agree with our investigator 
that the fees should be reimbursed. Our investigator recommended that Cheshire 
Trafford repurchase the investments which were sold to meet the fees. But, from the 
information Mr L has been able to provide, its not particularly clear whether 
investments were sold solely for the purpose of meeting Cheshire Traffords fees. 
And, because of the length of time involved and the lack of engagement from 
Cheshire Trafford, its likely to be difficult for it to produce an accurate reworking of 
his accounts. In the interest of resolving matters for Mr L, I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for Cheshire Trafford to reimburse the fees that it received - £5,216.55  
and pay interest at 8% simple per annum from the date the fee debited Mr Ls 
account to date of settlement.
Mr L says he should also be compensated for the potential loss in investment returns 
because he wasnt receiving suitable investment advice. Cheshire Trafford didnt 
carry out any reviews to know if Mr Ls circumstances had changed, or if his 
investments remained suitable for him. But Ive not seen enough evidence for me to 
conclude that his investments were unsuitable. And I cant say what investment 
advice Cheshire Trafford would have provided, and whether that advice would have 
resulted in higher investment growth. Equally if Mr L had chosen to approach a 
different adviser, I cant conclude with any certainty that the alternative adviser would 
have recommended investments that led to a better return than that which was 
actually achieved. For these reasons, I wont be awarding compensation for loss of 
investment growth.
I agree with our investigator that £150 is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
distress
and inconvenience Mr Ls been caused.
Mr L said he thought £150 was low, but that it was offset by the reimbursement of fees plus 
interest, so he accepted my provisional decision.
Cheshire Trafford didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to depart from my earlier 
conclusion.
My final decision
My final decision is that Cheshire Trafford UK Limited should:
1. Reimburse Mr L for the fees it received for the period from November 2018 to date  a 
total of £5,216.55.
2. It should pay interest at 8% simple per annum on each fee from the date it debited Mr Ls 
account to the date of settlement. *3. Pay Mr L £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman