DRN-1628247
 
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that his claim for legal expenses insurance was declined by Amtrust Europe 
Limited. He doesnt think his claim has been assessed by a competent solicitor. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here.
Mr D instructed an architect L to assist with the planning process for work at his home. He 
believes L were professionally negligent and he wanted to take legal action to recover his 
costs. His complaint to L had resulted in them offering to refund half their fee, but not the full 
amount nor the planning application fee.
Mr D had the benefit of insurance for certain legal expenses which was provided by Amtrust 
and he contacted them to make a claim. Amtrust referred the matter to one of their panel 
solicitors M. M did an initial assessment and concluded that there werent currently 
sufficient prospects of success (which was a requirement of cover under the policy). 
They explained that if the legal action was going to be successful, theyd need an expert 
report to show that no other reasonable architect would have done as L did. They also said 
that they believed the claim was disproportionate to pursue, due to the sums involved. 
Mr D disputed this and spoke to an expert in planning who said that there was sufficient 
evidence to support negligence within the existing information. Amtrust maintained their 
position. In summary they said it was fair for them to rely on suitably qualified legal advice. 
They said the policy was specific that gathering information to evidence whether the claim 
meets the requirements of the policy is Mr Ds responsibility. 
The matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. She concluded that Amtrust had acted fairly in the circumstances. Mr D 
disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
Initially, I agreed with our investigators outcome, but for slightly different reasons. These 
were shared with Mr D and he was provided with an opportunity to comment, now hes done 
so, I can go ahead with my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds policy includes an exclusion which says there is no cover where: An estimate of 
Advisers Costs of acting for You is more than the amount in dispute. This is a very common 
term in this type of insurance, and I dont think it is inherently unfair. A private paying client 
wouldnt generally spend more on legal action than the amount they stood to receive if 
successful. So, I dont think an insurer should have to either.
In the circumstances of this complaint a solicitor from M concluded that Mr Ds claim may 
well be disproportionate to pursue. Specifically, they said that the claim was vastly 
disproportionate to pursue. I think a solicitor is well placed to know the likely costs of 
pursuing such a claim and I think it is fair for Amtrust to rely on that when deciding not to 
offer further funding under the policy. 
The evidence shows that Mr D was seeking to recover the fees hed paid L which amounted 
to around £1,500 as well as the fee for the planning application itself which was a few 
hundred pounds. Given that L had offered to refund half of their fee (£750) I can quite 
understand why Amtrust considered the claim disproportionate to pursue. And in line with 
the above policy term, I think the claim has been fairly declined on that basis.
I acknowledge that much of the dispute in relation to the claim has been with regard to the 
prospects of success, the requirement for expert reports and the conduct of M. Mr D says he 
is entitled to have his claim assessed by competent solicitors and he says his evidence 
shows that hasnt happened. 
Amtrust arent responsible for the quality of the legal advice provided by M. So a complaint 
about this should be addressed to M and isnt something Ill comment on further. Even if I 
were to agree with Mr D that M had failed him and that this was to such an extent that 
Amtrust as the insurer should have been aware and intervened (which I dont). This wouldnt 
change my mind as to the outcome of this complaint. 
If a claim has been fairly declined on one policy term (as Im satisfied it has here with regard 
to proportionality)  I wouldnt expect the insurer to give further consideration to the claim 
even if another reason had been given and that were in error. If Mr D were to present 
Amtrust with a legal opinion that indicated his claim meets the requirements of the policy, Id 
expect Amtrust to consider it. But if he intends to do so, Id recommend that Mr D takes 
suitable independent advice before incurring costs.
Overall, I dont think Amtrust have acted outside the policy terms or unfairly and so Im not 
going to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman