DRN-3213290
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (EDL), provided 
him with a loan that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In June 2019, EDL provided Mr C with a loan for £2,500. The APR was 127.1%, the loan 
term 36 months, the total amount repayable £6,926.40 and the monthly repayment amount 
£192.40. 
In November 2020, Mr C complained that EDL had been irresponsible in providing him with 
the loan, because he already had a significant number of Payday Loans. He said that this 
had resulted in him needing to enter a Debt Management Plan (DMP), with the EDL loan 
representing over half of the total amount that he owed. 
EDL didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the loan was for the purpose of debt 
consolidation and that all of the Payday Loans had been considered in the affordability 
assessment. 
It said that it had carried out checks on Mr Cs income and expenditure and calculated that, 
after taking account of the debt consolidation, he had enough disposable income to meet the 
loan repayments. 
Mr C remained unhappy and asked this Service to look into his complaint. 
An investigator here issued a view upholding the complaint. She said, in summary, that:
- Under the relevant regulatory framework, EDL was obliged to lend responsibly. This 
meant that before agreeing to lend, EDL needed to check that Mr C would be able to 
sustainably meet the loan repayments.
- From the information EDL had gathered, there were signs that Mr C had experienced 
problems managing his money before approaching EDL for a loan. The credit report 
EDL had obtained before agreeing to lend, showed that Mr C had taken out 18 
Payday Loans in the 12 months leading up to the loan application. There were also 
nine active short-term loans not visible on the credit report, that EDL had also 
identified.  
- This suggested that Mr C was in a cycle of short-term loan usage and that he was 
relying on additional borrowing to repay existing debts.
- EDLs affordability assessment showed that even after the debt consolidation, Mr C 
would only have disposable income of £89.20 each month. Given that EDLs 
automated living expenses checks allocated less than the minimum average living 
allowance, this wouldnt give Mr C any leeway in the event that his circumstances 
changed. 
- As such, the checks EDL carried out demonstrated that Mr C would be unlikely to be 
able to make the loan repayments on a sustainable basis.
- Because of this, EDL should refund all of the loan interest and charges (plus 
statutory interest) and remove any adverse information in relation to the loan from his 
credit file.   
EDL disagreed. It said that the loan consolidated Mr Cs existing Payday Loan debt and this 
meant that he was put in a better position and one that was affordable. It also said that it 
noted Mr C only had one loan with EDL, suggesting he wasnt in a cycle of debt.
Because the matter remained unresolved, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. Before I explain why, I want to set out my role as an 
ombudsman. It isnt to address every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to 
decide whats fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that 
reason, Im only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my 
conclusions and my reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from 
both sides in full, I will continue to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar 
as they relate to this complaint, when doing that.
Under the relevant regulatory framework (the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  CONC), EDL 
was obliged to lend responsibly. This meant that it had to reasonably assess whether Mr C 
could afford to meet the loan repayments in a sustainable way over the term of the loan in 
question.
CONC didnt specify what level of detail such an assessment might require  nor did it set 
out how such an assessment needed to be carried out in practice. Instead, it said that the 
necessary level of detail when carrying out a requisite assessment would depend on the 
relevant factors, such as the nature of the lending in question (e.g. size of loan, duration, 
total cost etc) as well as the applicants circumstances. 
CONC defines the notion of sustainably repaying debt as being able to meet the repayments 
of a credit agreement without undue difficulty. And that includes being able to make 
repayments on time and without taking on additional borrowing to do so while also meeting 
other reasonable commitments.
EDL says that it checked affordability by assessing Mr Cs income and expenditure. For the 
former, it obtained recent payslips and a bank statement covering approximately one month. 
For the latter, it says that it used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to accurately 
calculate Mr Cs living costs. It also obtained a credit report.
EDL ought to have seen from the credit report and bank statement, that Mr C was in 
something of a cycle of relying on short-term loans.
EDLs contact notes suggest that it was aware of the Payday Loans appearing on Mr Cs 
bank statement. However, it seems that it only considered them as far as its income and 
expenditure assessment was concerned. But Mr Cs bank statement showed that in the 
month or so leading up to the EDL loan, he had 10 Payday loan payments coming into his 
account, totalling around £1,650. In the same time period, he made two payments to Payday 
Lenders, totalling around £223.This indicates both a significant reliance on short term lending and also a fundamental issue 
in terms of income in relation to expenditure. This is against a backdrop of the credit file 
suggesting a heavy reliance by Mr C on short-term lending and of taking out borrowing to 
repay previous borrowing. His bank statement also showed him being significantly into his 
overdraft at the beginning and end of the approximately one month period. 
Its questionable whether the expenditure assessment (relying on an ONS average figure) 
was itself reasonable and proportionate - given all relevant factors. But in any case, the 
information contained in the credit file and bank statement that Ive mentioned all points 
towards Mr C struggling with his finances in such a way that EDL ought to have known that 
the loan was likely to be unsustainable.  
Mr Cs bank statement also shows other things that arent currently explained in any detail, 
including what appears to be additional income (that is referenced in EDLs contact notes) 
and other substantial payments in and out. I dont find it necessary to find out more about 
these before reaching a decision, because none of these things are likely to materially affect 
the affordability of the loan. Im satisfied that EDL ought to have concluded the loan would 
likely be unsustainable based on what it already knew.
I note that EDL has said its loan was for debt consolidation and that, as such, it put Mr C in a 
better position financially. There is a degree of logic to this statement, but it doesnt take 
account of the bigger picture that Mr C was unlikely to be able to sustainably meet the loan 
repayments. 
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business 
as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in
now if the mistakes it made hadnt happened.
In this case, that would mean putting Mr C in the position he would now be in if he hadnt
been granted the loan.
However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending
because it isnt always possible to undo whats already been done. And with that being the 
case here, I have to consider if theres another way of putting the matter right fairly and 
reasonably given the circumstances of this complaint.
So, heres what EDL needs to do:
1. Refund all the interest and charges Mr C has paid to date.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, reduce any outstanding capital balance by the amount 
calculated at step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, any outstanding capital balance remains, ensure that it isnt subject to 
any historic or future interest and/or charges. And agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr C or his representative. But, if Step 2 leads to a positive balance, the amount in 
question should be given back to Mr C and 8% simple interest should be added to the 
surplus.
4. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file as a result of the interest 
and charges. 
*HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If thats the case, the Business must
provide a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if one is requested.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint against Everyday Lending Limited  trading 
as Everyday Loans and I direct it to what Ive set out above under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman