DRN-2326915
The complaint
Mrs J complains about Next Retail Limited (Next) re-debiting her account and adding 
additional fees for items that she has returned.
What happened
Mrs J says that she returned a number of items on her Next online account. Next credited 
the money back into the account. But she later discovered that the items were re-debited 
with other account fees added. Mrs J queried this with Next and was told they were returned 
in a non-saleable condition or were not the correct item. Mrs J says that this matter has been 
extremely distressing for her. She returned the items that she didnt require using the courier 
process. 
Next say that if there are any discrepancies with an item thats been returned, its sent to 
their investigations team. Discrepancies were noted with a number of returned items, 
resulting in Miss J being charged eight investigation fees. It is for these reasons that Mrs J 
has been charged for the items and investigation fees applied. 
One of our investigators looked into this complaint and didnt uphold it. The investigator said 
that Next correctly applied the charges for the items and investigation fees. The investigator 
felt that Next had followed their process correctly and werent required to do anything further. 
Mrs J wasnt happy with our investigators view. She says that she sent the correct items 
back. Mrs J says that Next made an error here because they initially credited the funds back 
to her. Mrs J also says that next should investigate their courier service as she didnt return 
any used or worn items. 
Our investigator responded to Mrs J, but her view remained unchanged. The investigator 
didnt think that Next had made an error. Mrs J remained unhappy and said that Next re-
debited her for the items that were returned. So, this matter has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Next has provided details about its returns process. Upon receipt, item codes are scanned 
and returns credited to the customers account. Goods arent physically inspected until later, 
at which point any discrepancies are investigated and, if necessary, goods recharged to the 
customer. An investigation fee may also be applied. 
investigation fees applied
Out of the fifty items that have been returned and investigated, Next applied the investigation 
charge of £35 on eight separate occasions as many items were returned in bulk. Ive seen a 
spreadsheet supplied by Next that shows the items are either a substitution, used, or an 
alternative. Ive shared this information with Mrs J, who says that she returned the items in 
their original condition but doesnt have any evidence of this. As Ive not seen any evidence 
that would lead me think that the spreadsheet is inaccurate, Im persuaded that the analysis 
done by Next is correct. The credit agreement that Mrs J has entered into states that If you 
return or attempt to return, substitute or alternative items when using our returns facility for 
any item an investigation charge of £35 will be added to the balance owing on your account. 
Although Next dont have the copies of the letters that were sent to Mrs J regarding the 
application of investigation fees, Ive seen satisfactory evidence that shows a log indicating 
that the letters were sent. On balance, Im satisfied that Next have followed their process 
fairly and that the fees were reasonably applied.  
re-debiting the account 
As the items returned werent satisfactory, the actions taken by Next to re-debit Mrs J for the 
items was also fair and reasonable. Mrs J has suggested that Next should look at the role of 
the courier service. Although Im here to look at the actions of Next, for completeness, I find 
it unlikely that there would be external interference with Mrs Js parcels on multiple 
occasions. I acknowledge that this has been a difficult situation for Mrs J and that she will be 
disappointed with the outcome. But I dont think Next have done anything wrong here, I wont 
be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision 
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Afroz Rasool
Ombudsman