DRN-3197736
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that AmTrust Europe Limited (AmTrust) declined his gadget insurance 
claim after his laptop was stolen while travelling abroad. 
What happened
Mr A had gadget insurance with AmTrust to cover his laptop. The policy provided cover for 
theft and loss. When checking in for his return flight from a trip abroad to visit family, he 
noticed his laptop was missing. Mr A reported it to airport security as theft, but because he 
needed to catch his flight, he left the matter with his family to follow up. Mr A claimed under 
his policy.
AmTrust declined the claim because he stored the laptop in the hold and because hed 
travelled against Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advice. 
Mr A complained to AmTrust because it had misunderstood where he stored his laptop and 
he had valid reasons for travelling.
Our investigator upheld Mr As complaint. He agreed that AmTrust had misunderstood Mr 
As report of where he stored the laptop and he didnt think AmTrust had fairly declined the 
claim under the exclusion of theft as a direct result of travelling against FCO advice.
AmTrust accepted that the policy exclusion for loss or theft while the laptop was stored in the 
hold didnt apply here. But it still thought the policy excluded cover for theft as a direct result 
of travelling against FCO advice.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the call between AmTrust and Mr A during which they discussed the 
circumstances of his claim. AmTrust confirmed on the call that it had cleared up the 
misunderstanding about the laptop being stored in the cargo hold and it repeated that in its 
response to our service. Im satisfied this point has been resolved so I wont discuss it 
further.
The remaining issue, then, is whether it was fair that AmTrust declined Mr As claim for the 
reason it gave and whether that was in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Mr A said his laptop mustve been stolen because he wouldnt have just lost it. The policy 
defines theft as follows:
Theft 
Means the taking of the gadget(s) by a third party with the intention of permanently 
depriving you of it, using force, threat of violence or by pickpocket. Theft claims must also 
be accompanied by a valid Police crime reference report. 
Loss property reports and reference numbers on their own will not be accepted in support 
of a Theft claim. 
Please note: Theft and Loss needs to be reported to the local Police authorities and your 
network provider (if applicable) within 24 hours of discovering the incident.
AmTrust declined Mr As claim for theft of his laptop relying on the following policy 
exclusions:
General exclusions 
We will not pay for: 
33. Any claim for worldwide cover if your trip has been for a period of more than 120 days 
or if the claim occurs as a direct result of you travelling to a country where the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) have advised against all (but essential) travel. 
Ive thought carefully about this. While Mr A travelled, seemingly, against FCO advice, I dont 
think that caused the theft of his laptop. The policy term is clear that the theft must be as a 
direct result of travelling against advice, not just as a result. The additional word direct 
means there must be a close relationship between the advice against travel and the resulting 
theft. That doesnt seem to be the case, here, because the advice against travel was health-
related which doesnt carry a direct relationship to the theft of Mr As laptop. The risk of theft 
wasnt greater because of the health-related advice.
So, for that reason, I dont think AmTrust treated Mr A fairly when it declined his claim for 
theft due to the policy exclusion of travelling against the advice of FOC.
To resolve this matter, AmTrust should reconsider Mr As claim under the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy. I must make it clear to both parties that Im not telling AmTrust 
to pay the claim. It declined Mr As claim for a reason which Ive decided wasnt fair. So 
AmTrust may look again at the policy to decide whether cover is available to Mr A.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and AmTrust 
Europe Limited must:
reconsider Mr As theft claim under his policy, in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions, without relying on general exclusion 33 - travelling against FCO advice.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman