DRN-3631487
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain that BISL Limited (BISL) declined to accept their application for a 
motor insurance policy and they have had to pay £60 more to obtain a policy with another 
insurer.
References to Mr or Mrs B, will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of BISL involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to BISL.
What happened
Mr B wanted to take out a motor insurance policy for Mrs B. He used an on-line price 
comparison site to obtain quotes and found one he wished to progress with.
Mr B tried to progress the application on-line, but it was not successful, so he contacted the 
customer service department for help. Despite Mr B giving all the details required, the 
customer service advisor also could not complete the purchase of the policy. Mr B was told 
by the advisor that although a reason was not clear as to why the purchase of the policy was 
not validating on its system, it was not a credit problem.
Mr B was passed on to a supervisor who also could not establish the reason the validation 
checks failed. 
BISL said it could not take the application forward due to the validation checks failing and so 
it was not possible for Mr B to buy the policy.
Mr B went on to buy a policy from another insurer. This cost £60 more than the quote he 
obtained on the price comparison site.  
As Mr B was not happy with BISL, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He looked into the case and said sometimes 
validation checks can fail and there can be many reasons why this happens. But as it is 
commercially sensitive to the business, they are unable to share this information, and this is 
fair and reasonable. 
As Mr B is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An insurer will complete validation checks before agreeing to offer a policy to a potential 
customer.
In this case after finding a policy via the on-line comparison site, Mr Bs application was 
submitted to BISL. On receipt of the on-line application BISL conducted its validation checks 
and in this case the checks failed, and Mr B was unable to progress with the on-line 
application.
I saw that Mr B called BISL and spoke to both an agent and then a supervisor about his 
quote and application. They both attempted to progress Mr Bs application without success 
due to the validation checks failing. 
BISL said it did not get a reason as to why this had happened. It said it could be a number of 
reasons.
An insurer isnt obliged to do business with a potential customer. In this case as Mr B was 
only applying for a policy with BISL, there is no contract in place and at this stage it has no 
obligation to offer a policy.
BISL further looked into this and confirmed it did not get reasons as to why validation checks 
fail. It confirmed it cant share the specifics about any checks that are carried out with 
customers. It said these are commercially sensitive to the business and it is unable to share.
I do understand Mr Bs frustration that BISL were unable to give the reason the validation 
checks failed. But as BISL has confirmed that information about validation checks are 
commercially sensitive to the business, we are unable to tell it to share this information.
I have seen no evidence that BISL have treated Mrs B and Mr B any differently to any other 
consumer in their position. Therefore I do not uphold Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint and do not 
require BISL to do anything further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman