DRN-3720222
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with Zurich Insurance Plcs (Zurich) handling and proposed settlement of a
subsidence claim made under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs R has had suspected ongoing subsidence at her home dating back around 25 years. A
claim was first made in the late nineties. Further claims were made at various points in the
following years, and some works were carried out.
In 2016 Mrs R made a further claim to Zurich, her home insurance provider, but this was
declined. Zurich said there wasnt subsidence and instead the cracks were due to lateral
restraint issues, and they recommended works be carried out by Mrs R  which she then
arranged to have completed.
A further claim was made in August 2019. Mrs R appointed her own surveyor and engineer
and they said subsidence was affecting the property. Monitoring was then carried out and
Zurich accepted the claim.
Mrs Rs engineer has been in ongoing discussion with Zurich about the required repairs.
Most have been agreed; however, Zurich didnt agree to underpin the rear flank at this stage
as further monitoring is being carried out in order for Zurich to consider the next steps.
However, Mrs R and her engineer want Zurich to agree to underpinning now.
Zurich reviewed the complaint made by Mrs R and issued a final response. In this they
accepted the claim had been handled poorly at points and offered £1,000 compensation.
Separately, Zurich also agreed to cover 50% of the costs Mrs R incurred in 2016.
Mrs R remained unhappy and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. She said there was limited
historic information, due to the time that has passed. So, she considered what had been
happening more recently, whilst also taking into account, based on the limited information
provided, some of the key historic points.
The investigator noted Mrs R had paid in excess of £6,000 for repairs in 2016 when Zurich
declined the claim and said that it was due to restraint issues. But the cracks reopened, and
since 2019, Mrs Rs appointed surveyor and engineer said this was subsidence related.
The investigator noted that Mrs R was seeking around £12,000 in costs which she says she
incurred since Zurich declined the claim in 2016. She also recognised that Zurich had
agreed to meet 50% of the 2016 costs.
Our investigator considered the main complaint points separately. In summary she said:
Stabilising the property  subsidence has been concluded as causing damage. This
was after monitoring was carried out from 2019 onwards. The property hasnt
stabilised since.
The investigator noted monitoring was to be carried out to at least August 2022
before Zurich was proposing to reach a conclusion on next steps, and whether to
underpin the rear of the property. She said it wasnt necessarily unreasonable to
allow monitoring to continue, but if there was still movement detected, Zurich should
move forward with underpinning.
Zurich didnt agree, they said they dont believe it is still moving, but have agreed to
continue monitoring and to decide next steps after this has been carried out.
Reimbursement of costs  Mrs R is seeking costs shes incurred. This includes all the
work carried out in 2016 after Zurich declined the claim, the costs of the guarantee
for those works and surveyor and professional fees.
The investigator noted that Zurich had said Mrs Rs surveyor in 2016 had agreed with
them that there wasnt subsidence. However, Zurich said there was a possibility
subsidence was present, so theyd paid 50% of the costs incurred in 2016.
The investigator didnt think Zurich had shown a sufficient inspection was carried out
in 2016 to determine the problem was settlement or lateral restraint issues, rather
than subsidence. She thought that if a thorough inspection had been completed, the
trees more recently identified as causing the subsidence wouldve been identified
earlier. So, the investigator said Zurich should reimburse the full costs Mrs R incurred
in 2016, with 8% interest added.
Our investigator also said that Mrs R was asking for additional costs shed incurred in
appointing an engineer and loss assessor since 2019, but she couldnt see that this
had been considered by Zurich. So, she said Mrs R should approach Zurich in the
first instance in relation to this point and costs.
Zurich didnt agree. They said the damage in 2016 wasnt indicative of subsidence,
and Mrs Rs previous surveyor didnt conclude that either. They said they offered
50% as the damage was in a similar area, but there wasnt anything to show they
reached the wrong conclusion previously. So, they didnt agree to the 100%
recommendation.
Mrs R and her surveyor didnt agree the additional costs hadnt been presented to
Zurich. Instead they provided evidence they had submitted these, and an updated
amount claimed in the region of £25,000.Claim handling  the investigator reviewed the information shed been provided. She
noted there had been delays and poor service, and that Zurich had offered £1,000
compensation. She said Mrs R had carried out the private works Zurich had
recommended in 2016, and she had to appoint her own engineers when cracks
reappeared. She said this had caused Mrs R inconvenience, and she didnt think
Zurichs offer of compensation was enough. Therefore, she recommended Zurich pay
a further £500, taking the total amount to £1,500.
Zurich didnt agree. They said they still thought 50% of the costs theyd paid, and
£1,000 compensation was reasonable.
Mrs R said it wasnt necessarily about compensating her, instead she wanted the
subsidence resolved and underpinning carried out.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
I provisionally reached a different outcome to our investigator. So, I issued a provisional 
decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my provisional findings, before I 
reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im issuing a provisional decision. Ive reached a different outcome 
to our investigator, so I wanted to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my 
provisional findings before I reach my final decision.
I dont intend on commenting individually on every event or action that occurred. I 
dont mean this as a discourtesy to either party, instead this reflects the informal 
nature of our service and my role within it. And Zurich accepts there have been 
service failings, which is why they offered compensation too.
Instead, Ill focus on what I believe is important in reaching a decision which is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And Ill briefly reference some of 
the key things that happened. Having said that though, Id like to reassure both 
parties that Ive considered all the information theyve provided when reaching my 
provisional decision.
As the ongoing issue with Mrs Rs property dates back more than 25 years, the 
historic information is limited. But Ive taken into account the limited information 
provided when reaching my provisional decision. For clarity, Ill address the main 
points in turn.
Stabilising the property
Mrs R appointed her own surveyor in 2019, and later an engineer and loss assessor.Following ongoing monitoring after making a claim in 2019, it was identified that 
several trees may be causing the cracking and subsidence. Zurich recommended 
tree removal, but one area was owned by a third party. Zurich was of the opinion 
there would be resistance from the third party in removing those trees. So, Zurich 
agreed to underpin the corresponding area of Mrs Rs property.
However, Zurich didnt agree to underpin part of the rear of the property. They said 
the cracking in that area was due to trees which had more recently been removed, so 
they believe the property will stabilise and underpinning therefore isnt necessary.
Mrs R and her engineer disagree. This is because they say the property has 
historically continued to move. They also say that it has continued to move after the 
trees have been removed. So, theyd like Zurich to agree to underpin this area.
Level monitoring has been continuing to establish if there is still movement  and 
Mrs Rs engineer says it still is moving. Mrs R and her engineer also dispute they 
agreed to the monitoring taking place. And they are concerned that at the end of 
monitoring, Zurich may maintain their position. So, they want this service to direct 
Zurich to underpin now.
Zurich say they will reach a conclusion after the monitoring has been carried out. But 
they also say even if it is still moving, then underpinning isnt the only option which 
could resolve the problem, and theyd need to consider the most appropriate method 
at that point.
Our investigator said it was reasonable for the monitoring to continue, but if there 
was still movement, then Zurich should then move forward with underpinning at that 
stage.
Whilst I recognise Mrs R and her engineers views on this, and I appreciate it will 
disappoint them, Im not minded to direct Zurich to carry out underpinning at this 
stage. Ill explain why.
Monitoring is still ongoing as far as Im aware. I recognise that Mrs Rs engineer has 
said there is still movement, but I dont think its unreasonable for monitoring to 
continue given its already started. Zurich has said itll consider next steps when 
monitoring has been concluded, and I dont think thats unreasonable as there will be 
full monitoring evidence available for Zurich (and Mrs R and her engineer) to 
consider.
At that point Zurich will then let Mrs R and her appointed representatives know their 
position on this part of the claim. This may well be they that agree to underpin as 
Mrs R and her engineer have asked for, but there may also be other ways in which 
any potential movement can be resolved. But thats for Zurich to propose once they 
know the outcome of the monitoring. At this stage, Zurichs final position on this point 
isnt known.
So, unless anything changes as a result of my provisional decision, Im not going to 
direct Zurich to underpin at this stage. Once Zurich does reach its final position, and 
if Mrs R and her engineer are unhappy with that position, then that would be a 
separate complaint based on that new information and reasoning i.e. the full 
monitoring results.Reimbursement of costs
Mrs R has asked Zurich to reimburse the following costs shes itemised from 2016:
2016 repairs following the claim decline by Zurich - £6,614.40
Ten-year warranty for the repairs carried out - £239.04
Costs for consulting engineers Mrs R appointed - £293.76
Repairs carried out by Mrs Rs builder when cracks reappeared in 2017 - 
£3,783
Mrs Rs claim was declined in 2016 on the basis Zurich said they couldnt locate any
evidence of subsidence. Instead they said the arches above the windows and doors 
were failing, causing settlement of the brickwork above. They also said there was 
historic bowing to the rear projection, and this was due to a lack of lateral restraint to 
the rear wall. Mrs R went ahead with the recommended repairs.
Zurich say Mrs Rs previous surveyor agreed with them on the cause of the problems 
at the time in 2016. But as there has now been subsidence identified from 2019 
onwards, and there was a possibility that there may have been subsidence at the 
time, Zurich agreed to reimburse 50% of the costs incurred outlined above totalling 
£5,465.10.
Mrs Rs current engineer alleges that her previous surveyor didnt agree with Zurichs
position at the time. Instead, they believe they were only giving an opinion on the 
required repairs based explicitly on Zurichs view of the problem. They say the 
previous surveyor wouldnt have commented on potential subsidence.
Our investigator thought Zurich hadnt shown theyd carried out a sufficient inspection 
in 2016 to conclude it was settlement/a restraint issue, rather than subsidence. She 
said that given subsidence was now concluded, and due to trees, which wouldve 
been present in 2016, she said Zurich should reimburse 100% of the costs from 
2016, with 8% interest added.
Im not minded to agree with our investigator that a sufficient inspection in 2016 
wasnt carried out. And Im also not in agreement with Mrs R and her engineer about 
what the previous surveyors role was allegedly restricted to  i.e. the repairs 
specification based on Zurichs conclusions only.
Ive seen the report that was carried out by Mrs Rs previous surveyor in 2016. This 
opens the report with:
You have noticed some crack and have asked for our opinion on the likely 
cause.
This shows that the report wasnt limited to the repairs only, as Mrs Rs current 
surveyor alleges.
The report then goes into detail, including the location of the property and the type of 
ground it is built on, along with the foundation type. And they summarised the 
conclusion as:
A house of this age will inevitably require ongoing repair and maintenance 
and it is our opinion that the specific cracking mentioned below falls into the 
category of ongoing maintenance to repair minor structural defects.They then went on to detail the different areas, and in summary concluded:
There were no lateral restraints to the rear wall, and suggested ties are 
installed
There was possible roof spread, along with a lack of wall restraints
The lintel over the window had dropped, and a relieving beam should be 
installed
The cause of some cracks was not so evident. It was suggested that 
monitoring be carried out. If the movement was ongoing, then further lateral 
restraints should be considered
So, I dont agree with Mrs Rs current engineers view that the previous surveyor 
didnt give an opinion on anything other than the repair specification based on 
Zurichs conclusions. Instead, theyve concluded that in the main, a lack of lateral 
restraint was the issue, rather than subsidence. And that one area needed further 
monitoring to determine if it was still moving - but was likely to need lateral restraint 
too.
Zurich have accepted there could possibly have been subsidence. So, theyve 
agreed to cover 50% of the costs incurred in 2016. I dont think thats unreasonable 
as based on what Ive seen, all the evidence points to it being lateral restraint issues, 
rather than subsidence.
Mrs Rs current engineer says this could be caused by subsidence too. However, 
even if that was the case, there isnt anything to show that a lack of lateral restraint 
wasnt either the sole problem (rather than subsidence), or in addition to possible 
subsidence. Given a lack of restraints is a workmanship and maintenance issue, 
Mrs R wouldve always been responsible for this cost in any event - even if 
subsidence was also contributing to it. So, I dont think Zurichs offer of 50% towards 
repairs that Mrs R would always have been responsible for is unfair.
There also isnt any evidence to support that the repairs Zurich recommended 
werent required or were completely unnecessary. And given they always would have 
been Mrs Rs responsibility  due to them being workmanship and maintenance 
issues - it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to direct Zurich to pay 100% of those 
costs incurred.
Our investigator also noted Mrs R was also claiming for additional costs in relation to 
the more recent claim since 2019. But the investigator said she couldnt see that 
Mrs R had approached Zurich with these costs, so said she should do so in the first 
instance.
Mrs R and her surveyor didnt agree with that position and demonstrated they had
approached Zurich  but Zurich hadnt reached a conclusion on that beyond saying it 
was going to consider it further. So, Mrs R and her surveyor would like me to direct 
Zurich to pay these costs.
The updated costs Mrs R is seeking in relation to the current claim are:
Fees for a surveyor she appointed in 2019  three visits totalling £1,140
Consultant structural engineer fees  £12,420
Loss assessor fees  £1,500Based on what Ive seen, and unless anything changes as a result of my provisional
decision, Im not minded to direct Zurich to cover these costs presented. Ill explain 
why.
Zurich outlined in their letter to Mrs R in November 2021:
Professional advisers. It is not clear what is being claimed here. If Mrs R 
wishes to employ her own consultant to design, procure and supervise the 
works that will be acceptable, although fees will need to be agreed in 
advance. Fees incurred in the administration, preparation and presentation of 
a claim (typically those levied by a loss assessor) are specifically excluded 
and would not be reimbursed.
I dont think Zurichs position in relation to this is unreasonable.
Mrs Rs engineer has given a list of the work theyve undertaken on the claim, which 
Mrs R is asking Zurich to pay for, as follows:
Initial meeting and client briefing
Visual survey of the building and defects
Study of 25 years of historic records
Compilation of summary timeline
Measured survey of building and production of CAD drawing
Photographic survey of cracks and report for record purposes
Three-way meeting with claims expert
Level survey and production of record drawings
Lodge formal complaint with Zurich
Ongoing correspondence with Zurich
Report and compilation of paperwork to submit to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service
Ongoing correspondence with the Financial Ombudsman Service
Meeting with loss adjusters on site
Receiving and assessing loss adjuster response November 2021
Compiling list of defects and matters that need addressing
Letter to loss adjuster November 2021
Reviewing monitoring results
Receiving and assessing loss adjuster report November 2021
Letter to loss adjuster December 2021
Receiving and assessing loss adjuster response January 2021
Telephone and email communications over eight-month period
As mentioned above, Zurich said if Mrs R wished to appoint her own consultant to 
design, procure and supervise the works, that would be acceptable, but costs would 
need to be agreed in advance. I cant see that any of the above costs are for this, or 
importantly, agreed in advance.Mrs Rs engineer has said in his submission to this service:
I have advised her (Mrs R) therefore that she must appoint a professional 
Loss Assessor to act on her behalf and oversee the remainder of the claim on 
a day to day basis, as this would seem to be necessary to ensure that 
appropriate works are specified and repairs finally completed in a timely 
manner. That is not asking more than for the insurers to simply meet their 
contractual obligations.
And in later communication with us:
Mrs Rs position is that she only employed an engineer and a loss assessor 
because she saw no prospect at all of concluding the claim successfully (or 
even progressing it) without proper professional help on her side. She would 
not have done this if Zurich had acted fairly and within a reasonable timescale 
in the past and does not see why she should have to pay separately in order 
to ensure that she is getting fairly treated under the policy. Consequently, she 
would like to claim full reimbursement for the costs of her engineer and loss 
assessor.
And Mrs R also said in her submission to this service:
I have had to appoint a Structural Engineer, (NAME) to look into the matter 
and his report and supporting documentation is attached. In view of the failure 
of insurers to expedite the matter, I now have no choice but to appoint a Loss 
Assessor, as I have lost all hope that the insurers will resolve this once and 
for all in a timely manner. I am extremely concerned about future insurance 
and the ability to sell the property, should I so wish.
Whilst I note Mrs R felt the need to appoint an engineer and loss assessor to act on 
her behalf, this was her choice to do so. Mrs R entered into an agreement with them 
and agreed to their services and costs for providing services. If Mrs R was unhappy 
with Zurichs handling of her claim, she couldve raised a complaint at any time and 
approached this service to look into matters.
I also note Mrs R appointed her first surveyor prior to even making the claim in 2019 
with Zurich. She then appointed an engineer and loss assessor much further into the 
claim. This was a choice Mrs R decided to make.
Zurich accepted the subsidence claim, and monitoring was carried out. Subsidence 
claims are complex by their very nature and it can often take time to establish the 
cause, whether a property is still moving and the required level of repairs. In this 
case, I cant see that Mrs Rs claim got to the position it did, or was accepted by 
Zurich, solely because of Mrs Rs surveyor, engineer or loss assessor appointment 
since 2019. So, in these circumstances, Im not minded to conclude it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to direct Zurich to cover these costs that Mrs R incurred when she 
chose to appoint different professional parties to act on her behalf.
In addition, Mrs Rs is also asking for costs in her professional representatives 
presenting a complaint to Zurich and corresponding about that. And then for 
presenting a complaint to this service and corresponding with us.Mrs R had the option to raise a complaint with Zurich directly. Instead she asked for 
her professional representatives to do this on her behalf. It wouldnt be reasonable 
for me to direct Zurich to cover the costs of this. Whether the complaint was 
presented by Mrs R or her surveyor, Zurich would have needed to respond to that 
complaint and to give referral rights to our service. I cant conclude Mrs R was unable 
to make a complaint and her only option was for her surveyor to do so - at a cost.
Furthermore, Mrs R is also asking for her surveyors costs in presenting a complaint 
to this service and ongoing correspondence with us. We are an informal dispute 
resolution service. A consumer isnt required to appoint an expert to make a 
complaint to us and to correspond with us on their behalf. Our service, being an 
informal alternative to the courts, is accessible to consumers without the need for 
professional representation. Im unable to conclude Mrs R was unable to raise a 
complaint with us, and therefore her surveyor needed to on her behalf - at a cost. So, 
it follows that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to direct Zurich to pay Mrs Rs 
professional representatives costs in doing so.
Claim handling
Its clear that Mrs Rs property has been suffering problems for a number of years. 
But as I say, I dont agree with our investigator that Zurich reached the wrong 
outcome in 2016. And since the claim was made in 2019, Zurich have recognised 
there has been poor claim handling, delays and the service Mrs R received hasnt 
been in line with her reasonable expectations. Thats not in dispute by Zurich.
I can also see that there were questions which needed clarifying surrounding the 
legally registered ownership of the property, after Mr R sadly passed away. And 
responsibility for the party wall also needed establishing. Zurich needed to be sure 
Mrs R had an insurable interest before moving forwards. Thats not an unreasonable 
position, as Zurich needs to be satisfied it has the relevant authority to proceed.
Having taken everything into account, I think the £1,000 compensation already 
offered by Zurich is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, so Im not minded to 
direct Zurich to increase this.
Policy excess and insurance premiums at renewal
Mrs R also said she doesnt see why she should have to pay another claim excess 
when in her opinion the subsidence hasnt been resolved. However, as I mentioned 
above, I dont think the conclusion reached in 2016 was unreasonable based on what 
Ive seen.
And the claim raised and accepted this time hasnt been concluded as being due to 
the previous subsidence, or failed works carried out previously. As a subsidence 
claim has been made and accepted in 2019 following monitoring, I dont think its 
unreasonable that an excess would apply in line with the terms of Mrs Rs policy.
I also note Mrs R is concerned about what her renewal price may be this year, or that 
Zurich may not offer a renewal at all. However, that isnt know at this stage. If and 
when it is known, and if Mrs R is unhappy with this, shed need to raise it with Zurich 
as a new complaint in the first instance.
Therefore, I was minded to conclude the £1,000 compensation already offered by Zurich 
was fair and reasonable, and I wasnt minded to direct them to do anything further beyond 
what theyd already offered.The responses to my provisional decision
Zurich respond accepting my provisional decision. They didnt add any further comments.
Mrs R responded and said she thinks my provisional decision has missed the point on two 
important issues.
Firstly, Mrs R says it is irrelevant whether the experts were right or wrong in relation to the 
2016 claim. This is because cracks reappeared after works were carried out. So, she 
maintains the works completed at the time were completely unnecessary.
Secondly, Mrs R says that monitoring has continued throughout August. She also provided a 
copy of the most recent monitoring readings. And she says the readings still show 
movement. Mrs R says that she has no reason to trust that Zurich will take this into account 
and stabilise the property before repairs are completed. 
So, Mrs R maintains that unless underpinning is carried out by Zurich, its likely cracks will 
reappear after repairs have been carried out. Therefore, she maintains Zurich should be 
directed to carry out underpinning now.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional conclusions I came to. Having done so, and 
whilst I recognise itll disappoint Mrs R, my final decision remains the same as my 
provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
I wont revisit every provisional finding I reached, as they are all outlined above, and Im 
satisfied with those findings I reached and the reasons why, which I explained. Instead, Ill 
focus on the two points Mrs R provided in response to my provisional decision.
The 2016 claim and repairs
I do recognise Mrs Rs strength of feelings on the matter. But as I outlined in my provisional 
decision, Mrs Rs own surveyor in 2016 didnt conclude subsidence was present and instead 
suggested, in the main, a lack of lateral restraint was the issue. And whilst one area needed 
further monitoring to determine if it was still moving, lateral restraint was concluded as likely 
needed rather than being due to subsidence.
There isnt anything to show lateral restraint wasnt either the sole issue (rather than 
subsidence), or in addition to possible subsidence. 
So, I dont agree with Mrs R that this was irrelevant. There isnt anything to show those 
conclusions were incorrect (and they were also concluded by Mrs Rs own surveyor), so I 
also cant conclude that the works carried out by Mrs R were completely unnecessary. Whilst 
cracking may have appeared at a later point, that doesnt demonstrate lateral restrain wasnt 
an issue or that the repairs were completely unnecessary. And those works wouldve always 
been the responsibility of Mrs R regardless, as lateral restraint issues are workmanship and 
wear and tear issues.But in any event, Zurich has offered to cover 50% of the costs incurred in 2016 as there 
could possibly have been subsidence. I dont think that offer is unreasonable as based on 
what Ive seen, all evidence points to it being lateral restraint issues, rather than subsidence, 
and there isnt anything to show the works Mrs R had carried out werent required (and they 
would always have been her responsibility).
Stabilising the property
I acknowledge Mrs R has provided the most recent monitoring results, and that she 
maintains underpinning should be carried out. But my decision on this point remains the 
same as my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
Zurich has said itll consider next steps when monitoring has been concluded. I dont think 
thats unreasonable as full monitoring evidence will be available for Zurich (and Mrs R and 
her representatives) to consider and take into account.
Zurich will then let Mrs R know their position on that part of the claim. This may be that they 
underpin as Mrs R has asked for. But there may also be other ways in which stability can be 
achieved  if it is still moving. That will be for Zurich to propose once they know the outcome 
of the full monitoring. But the claim isnt at that point yet, and Zurichs position and/or 
proposals on this isnt known.
Whilst I recognise Mrs R says she has no reason to trust Zurich, as outlined in my 
provisional decision, once Zurichs final position is known, and if Mrs R and her 
representatives are unhappy with that, that would be a separate complaint based on that 
new position and information (the full monitoring results). So, Im not going to direct Zurich to 
carry out underpinning at this stage.
Having carefully reconsidered matters, Im satisfied the outcome I reached in my provisional 
decision (that the £1,000 compensation already offered by Zurich, along with the other offers 
they have made), is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint, so Im not 
going to direct them to do anything further at this stage.
My final decision
Its my final decision that what has already been offered by Zurich Insurance Plc is fair and 
reasonable, so Im not going to direct them to increase this or do anything beyond that at this 
stage. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman