DRN-4235685
The complaint
Mr B complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC froze his credit card for two weeks. Mr B said 
he wasnt able to use the card to make payments, and he was fined £85 as a result. Mr B 
said Barclays told him the card itself was damaged, but he was attempting online payments.
What happened
Mr B said that in October 2022, his credit card stopped working, and he couldnt use it for 
around two weeks. Mr B said he wasnt able to make payments during this time, and he told 
us he incurred a fine of £85. 
Mr B said Barclays told him it had investigated. At first it said he was putting the wrong 
details in, but Mr B said the details were saved, and if theyd worked before, they should 
work again. Mr B said hed even tried the transactions again on the phone with Barclays. Mr 
B said Barclays then told him that the problem was the magnetic strip was damaged, but he 
said hed told Barclays that he was trying to make payments online. 
Mr B said Barclays had offered £20 for inconvenience, but he said that didnt cover the fine 
hed had to pay, or the time hed taken trying to resolve this.
Barclays said Mr Bs card was being repeatedly declined by the same type of merchant. 
Barclays said it could have been a problem with the magnetic strip, but it could also have 
been an error with the details of the card Mr B was inputting the three digit card security 
code (CSC) from the back of the card - or Barclays has also mentioned an incorrect expiry 
date. 
Barclays said it had issued Mr B with a new card, and asked him to update his card details 
with all merchants and online services. But it didnt think that what had gone wrong here was 
its fault. It said it would pay Mr B £20 to cover the cost of phone calls that he had made, but 
it wouldnt pay more than this.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said the transactions Mr B 
made in October 2022 were declined due to an incorrect CSC being entered or a damaged 
magnetic strip. Our investigator said she thought it would have been helpful if Barclays had 
been clearer that transactions could have been declined for either of these reasons.
Our investigator said she appreciated Mr B had confirmed the details hed entered online 
were correct, but she couldnt say there had been a technical issue on Barclays side, or that 
it made a mistake which caused this. And, looking at Mr Bs statements for October and 
November 2022, she could see there were successful transactions. She understood a new 
card was issued, which is what she would have expected Barclays to do. 
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had to do more than it had done already. 
Mr B didnt accept that. He said wed just reached the same conclusion as Barclays, but hed 
already explained that it was unthinkable that hed just entered the wrong CSC more than 
ten times while trying to make the payment. He said one failed payment was online, the 
other was a phone order to a retailer. They werent transactions hed made in person. And 
when he used a different card, the payment went through. 
Mr B was unhappy that wed investigated and reached the same conclusion as Barclays. He 
said he wanted his case to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion this complaint as our investigator. 
I understand Mr Bs reasons for saying that he couldnt possibly have made a mistake over 
his card details, as many times as Barclays suggested. And I appreciate why hes convinced 
the problem lay with Barclays. I think it would have been unhelpful for Barclays to suggest 
that the problem could be a faulty magnetic strip, when Mr B wasnt making physical 
transactions. So I can see why this would undermine his faith in the bank.
But I think that Barclays has shown us that the underlying problem with the transactions Mr 
B wanted to make, was that the CSC verification failed. And Barclays notes do indicate it told 
Mr B this on 19 October, when he rang back to say the payment he was attempting still 
wouldnt go through. I dont know why that happened, and I dont think Im able to assume, in 
this case, that its just most likely that the problem lay with Barclays, rather than that the 
CSC code Mr B gave didnt match the details saved with a business or input by a retailer. 
As Ive said, I cant be sure whats gone wrong here, and whether the cause was Barclays, 
Mr B, or an issue caused by the merchants Mr B was attempting to pay. It doesnt appear to 
me that theres any way now to be sure about that. But I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to ask Barclays to pay Mr B further compensation for whats gone wrong 
(in addition to the payment of £20 its already offered for his call costs) or to cover the costs 
of fines that Mr B said he had to pay, unless I am able to conclude that its more likely than 
not that these problems were caused by Barclays. And, considering all the evidence in this 
case, I havent been able to reach that conclusion.
If something like this goes wrong, a problem which could have many causes, then what I 
would expect Barclays to do is to seek to assist Mr B with the problem. I can see that on 19 
October, Barclays refreshed Mr Bs card, to see if that would help. When it didnt, Barclays 
ordered a new card for him. 
Mr B said that his card didnt work for around two weeks. He told Barclays that he hadnt 
been using it during this time. But it does appear from his statements as if he did use the 
card in October, with successful transactions that show on his statement after he complained 
to Barclays. 
I can also see that Mr B rang Barclays again on 11 November, presumably after hed 
received his new card, and said he was still having problems. Barclays notes say Mr B told it 
then that his details were saved with the retailer, and they hadnt changed. Barclays said to 
Mr B then that he needed to update his details with merchants after a new card had been 
issued. Mr Bs statements do seem to suggest that after this, the problem was resolved, as 
he started using his card regularly again in the second half of November. For the reasons set out above, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Barclays to 
pay more compensation for the problem that originally occurred here. And I do think 
Barclays took reasonable steps, after it was alerted to the issue, to assist Mr B in getting this 
resolved. So, although I know Mr B will be disappointed, I dont think Barclays has to do 
more than its done already. 
I understand Mr B may not have accepted the offer of £20 to cover his call costs, so Ill ask 
Barclays to pay that now, if it hasnt done so already.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr B £20 in compensation, if it 
hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman