DRN-4232680
The complaint
Miss P complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CG) 
declining a claim under her pet insurance policy for treatment of her dog.
References to CG include their agents who administer the policy.
This decision only covers Miss Ps complaint to this service about CGs decline of her claim 
for treatment of her dog in August 2022. It doesnt cover other issues contained in CGs final 
response issued in February 2023 (use of the dog for breeding and third-party liability).
What happened
In August 2022 Miss P noticed her dog licking its tail. She took the dog to a vet, who noted 
two cysts on the dogs tail. The vet prescribed a course of treatment (medication) for the 
cysts. Miss P made two claims for the cost of treatment(£266.69 and £626.55).
However, CG said they wouldnt accept the claim, as review of the dogs clinical history 
indicated a previous consultation in December 2020 for lumps (suspected cysts) on the 
dogs back. They said they showed the dog had a pre-existing condition, before the policy 
was taken out. Pre-existing conditions werent covered under the policy. 
Miss P was unhappy about CGs decline of her claim, as she didnt think the previous clinical 
history indicated a pre-existing condition. Her vet also provided a statement saying the 
masses found in December 2020 were suspected to be possible cysts but were unrelated 
and separate to the cysts on the dogs tail first noted on a visit in January 2022. And there 
was no causal link between the masses on the dogs back and the later cysts on the tail. So, 
Miss P complained to CG.
CG didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said when Miss P took out her 
policy, the terms and conditions provided to her made it clear pre-existing conditions (or 
where there were clinical signs of existence) wouldnt be covered. CG referred to information 
in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) and the Policy Definitions, Veterinary 
Fees and General Exclusions sections of the policy which stated pre-existing conditions 
werent covered. 
Miss P then complained to this service, Miss P said CG had unreasonably declined her 
claim, as the vets view supported the case the dog didnt have a pre-existing condition when 
the policy was taken out. She wanted CG to settle her claim and reimburse her for the cost 
of treatment for the cysts on the dogs tail in August 2022.
Our investigator upheld Miss Ps complaint, concluding CG hadnt acted fairly. The small 
lump noted on the dogs back in December 2020 was suspected to be a cyst or scab, and by 
February 2021 no lump was felt and only scabs seen. Based on this, Miss P couldnt 
reasonably have thought this would lead to her having to make a claim for the cyst on the 
dogs tail, first noted in January 2022. The investigator also found persuasive the vets 
statement the two conditions werent linked, as their professional opinion.
To put things right, the investigator thought CG should pay Miss Ps claim, in line with the 
policy limit and any applicable excess. Interest should be added from the date of the claim to 
the date of settlement. 
CG disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In disagreeing, they referred to the dogs previous clinical history and the 
suspected cysts (December 2020) and cysts (treatment in August 2022, but first diagnosed 
in January 2022). CG also referred to policy terms and conditions, specifically the definitions 
of the terms Associated Condition and Lump. Given the definitions, CG said the lumps in 
December 2020 (prior to the policy starting) were suspected cysts and the masses tested in 
January 2022 were confirmed to be cysts, they were considered to be associated conditions. 
As cover wasnt provided for associated conditions (or pre-existing conditions) they 
maintained their decline of the claims was correct.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether CG have acted fairly towards Miss P.
 
The key issue in Miss Ps complaint is whether CG acted fairly in declining her claim for 
treatment of her dog. CGs view (as set out in their final response) is that they correctly 
declined the claim, on the grounds the dogs clinical history indicated a pre-existing condition 
(they refer to a previous consultation indicating suspected cysts on the dogs back in 
December 2020. As a pre-existing condition, it was excluded from cover under the policy. 
Miss Ps view is that the previous cysts werent linked to the subsequent cysts on the dogs 
tail (first noted in January 2022). She points to the opinion of her vet that the two incidences 
were separate and unrelated.  
Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of the policy 
(particularly those referred to by CG in their final response) together with the supporting 
information and evidence, including Miss Ps vets opinion and the clinical history of Miss Ps 
dog. In their final response, CG refer to the following statement in the IPID:
What is not insured?
Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition 
CG refer to the Policy Definitions which state a Pre-Existing Condition means:
any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated Condition which has 
happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any form before 
the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
Similar wording appears under the Veterinary Fees heading, where theres a sub-heading 
What is not insured?
CG also refer to the General Exclusions section of the policy that includes the following:
As with all insurance policies, there are exclusions and conditions that apply to Your 
coverage. We have listed below the exclusions that apply to all sections of Your 
Policy coverageThe following exclusions apply to the whole of this Policy. We will not pay claims for 
any of the following reasons:
If we are made aware of any Pre-existing Conditions at the time of a claim, these 
Pre-existing Conditions will not be covered, and We reserve the right to add a 
relevant endorsement(s) to your Policy in respect of these Pre-existing 
Conditions. . 
Ive then considered the question of whether the dog did have a pre-existing condition, 
specifically, the presence of cysts. Looking at the clinical history, particularly the issue in 
December 2020 that CG referred to when declining the claim, theres the following reference 
in the clinical notes for that date:
Owner a month ago noticed lump on back  almost like a scab  4 inches away 
from tail near midline
Examination: 2 small scabslook like possible superficial pyoderma on initial 
inspection but once scabe off and palpate underlying skin can feel two small lumps  
suspect small cysts beginning
Assessment: suspect start of 2 skin cysts
Theres a further note from a visit in February 2021 that notes the vet cant feel the lumps 
previously noted in December 2020.
Ive also considered Miss Ps vets opinion. Their statement says:
[dog] attended the surgery on 1 December 2020 for an appointment related to 
lumps on his backwhilst the masses were suspected to be possible cysts, they are 
unrelated and separate to the cysts on his tail which were first noted on a visit on 25 
January 2022. There is no causal link between the masses noted on its back and the 
cysts which later occurred on its tail.
As Miss Ps vet examined the dog in December 2020, February 2021 and then in August 
2022, then Im more persuaded by their view the suspected cysts in December 2020 werent 
related (or linked to) the subsequent cysts on the tail in August 2022. Particularly given the 
cysts in December 2020  which were only suspected  would seem to have disappeared 
when the dog was examined in February 2021 (the vet couldnt feel the lumps previously 
noted).
Ive also considered the general principle, where an insurer relies on an exclusion, that onus 
is on them to show its reasonable to apply it. Taking all these points into account, Im not 
persuaded CG have shown enough to apply the exclusion for a pre-existing condition in the 
circumstances of this case. So, Ive concluded CG acted unfairly to apply the exclusion to 
decline Miss Ps claims.
While CG referred in their final response to the decline of the claim on the grounds the dog 
had a pre-existing condition, in their response to our investigators view they referred to other 
policy terms and conditions, specifically the definitions of the terms Associated Condition 
and Lump. Given the definitions, they consider the lumps in December 2020 (suspected 
cysts) and the masses in January 2022 (confirmed to be cysts) to be associated conditions. 
As cover wasnt provided for associated conditions (or pre-existing conditions) they maintain 
they acted correctly to decline the claims.While the claims werent originally declined (nor in their final response) on the grounds of 
associated conditions, I have considered what CG have now said. They refer to the following 
definitions, first that of Associated Condition:
Associated Condition means a Condition that is either a recurring illness and/or 
Accidental Injury or Lump; or related to a previous Illness and/or Accidental Injury or 
Lump; or caused by a previous Illness and/or Accidental Injury of Lump.
The definition of Lump is given as:
Lump means any growth, tumour, cyst or general lump(s) that appear(s) on or in 
Your Pets body. Any Lump that has the same diagnoses or displays the same 
Clinical Signs or Symptoms as a previous Lump will be treated as an Associated 
Condition.
Ive considered these definitions in the context of the circumstances of this case. Looking at 
the wording of the definition of Associated Condition I dont believe the incidences in this 
case would reasonably be held to fall within the definition. I say this because the two 
incidences werent a recurring illness or accidental injury or lump. Nor were they  given the 
vets opinion  related (my emphasis) to a previous illness or accidental injury or lump or 
caused by a previous illness or accidental injury. And the clinical notes dont indicate the 
lumps had the same diagnosis.
So, Ive concluded CG cant reasonably apply (even retrospectively) the Associated 
Condition exclusion to decline the claims.
Given these conclusions, Ive thought about what CG need to do to put things right. As I 
dont think they can rely on the exclusion for pre-existing conditions, they should settle the 
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, including any limits on the 
costs of treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate). 
If CG settle the claim, they should also pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the amount 
accepted, from the date Miss P paid the vets bill, to the date they settle the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Ps complaint. I require 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Settle Miss Ps claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
including any limits on the costs of treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate).
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd settle the claim, they should also 
pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the amount settled, from the date Miss P paid the vets 
bill to the date they settle the claim.
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd consider theyre required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Miss P how 
much theyve taken off. They should also give Miss P a tax deduction certificate if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 Paul King
Ombudsman