DRN-4012668
The complaint
Mr F complains because Vitality Health Limited (Vitality) cancelled his private medical 
insurance policy. 
All references to Vitality include the agents appointed to administer the insurance on its 
behalf.
What happened
Mr F held a private medical insurance policy, provided by Vitality, since 2017.
Mr Fs policy renewed on 1 February 2022. On 15 February 2022, Vitality sent Mr F a letter
saying his direct debit for the premium payments had been cancelled and hed need to
complete and return a direct debit mandate within 14 days to make sure his cover remained
in place. Mr F received this letter and says he returned the direct debit mandate to Vitality on
23 February 2022.
Vitality says it wrote to Mr F on two occasions in March 2022, saying that it didnt have an
active direct debit instruction in place for his policy and asking for direct debit details to be
returned to it within 14 days so Mr F could make sure he remained covered. Mr F says he
didnt receive these letters.
On 27 April 2022, Vitality wrote to Mr F to say his insurance policy had been cancelled with
effect from 31 January 2022, because it hadnt received the outstanding premium payments.
Mr F received this letter.
Unhappy Mr F complained to Vitality. Vitality said it hadnt received Mr Fs completed direct
debit mandate until May 2022, by which time Mr Fs policy had already been cancelled.
Vitality said it wouldnt re-instate Mr Fs policy due to the timescales involved and his
previous payment history, but that Mr F could take out a new private medical insurance
policy with it if he wished.
As Mr F remained dissatisfied, he brought the matter to the attention of our service. One of
our investigators looked into what had happened and said she thought Vitality had acted in
line with the terms and conditions of Mr Fs policy, and that Vitality hadnt acted unfairly by
cancelling the insurance. A second investigator subsequently told Mr F he agreed with the
outcome reached by our first investigator. Mr F didnt accept our investigators findings, so
the complaint was referred to me to decide, as the final stage in our process.
I asked Vitality to provide more evidence about Mr Fs complaint, and I addressed this new 
evidence in my provisional decision dated 15 February 2023. My provisional decision said:
I dont agree with the outcome our investigators reached, and Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Fs policy say:
We can cancel, refuse or renew or change the terms of your plan  at any time if
any of the following happen:

you commit a breach of the terms of your plan. A breach will include, among
other things:
-    the non-payment of premiums when they are due. We may, at our discretion,
     reinstate cover if any outstanding premiums are paid within seven days of our
     telling you that we have cancelled your plan due to non-payment.
Mr Fs premiums werent paid when they were due, so, under a strict application of the policy
terms and conditions, Vitality was entitled to cancel his policy.
Mr F has repeatedly referenced what he considers the legal position to be and, while the law
is a relevant consideration in making my decision, its not determinative and Im not bound to
follow it. However, my overriding remit is to make a decision based on what I think is fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances. So, I can direct a business to depart from a strict
interpretation of the policy terms and conditions if I think its fair and reasonable to do so.
Ive carefully considered the timeline of what happened in this case. I cant conclude with
any certainty exactly if and/or when letters were posted and/or received. Instead, I must
base my decision on the balance of probabilities (i.e., what I think is most likely to have
happened in the circumstances), taking into account all the available evidence.
I acknowledge that the terms and conditions of Mr Fs contract with Vitality say:
we do not accept proof of posting an application form, claim form or premium
payment as proof that we have received it.
But our service would generally think its fair and reasonable to consider that if one of the
parties to a complaint can demonstrate that its likely a letter or document was sent, then
theyve complied with whatever their obligations in that regard might be.
Mr F has provided a signed copy of a completed direct debit mandate dated 23 February
2022. The completed direct debit mandate has the same reference numbers (PRUHL22341 
and V30697569_000000139) as the letter dated 15 February 2022. Mr F has provided proof
of postage dated 23 February 2022 for a letter addressed to Vitality, using the correct
postcode set out on the direct debit mandate.
Vitality says that items of post are scanned on its internal systems on the day of receipt, and
Vitality has now provided evidence to show that Mr Fs completed direct debit mandate was
scanned on 3 May 2022. I note this was within seven days of Vitality informing Mr F that it
had cancelled his policy (although reinstatement of a policy within this timeframe is stated to
be at Vitalitys discretion). But, in any event, Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr F
returned his completed direct debit mandate to Vitality on 23 February 2022.
As I think Mr F has demonstrated that he most likely posted this document on 23 February
2022, I dont think its fair to hold Mr F responsible for any delay by Vitality  whatever the
cause may have been  in receiving and/or in uploading the completed direct debit mandate
onto its systems.
Having said that, Im also satisfied that Vitality sent Mr F a letter dated 4 March 2022. The
letter displays Mr Fs address, says that Vitality doesnt have an active direct debit instruction
for his insurance policy and asks for direct debit details to be returned to it within 14 days.Vitality has also provided a letter dated 21 March 2022, again displaying Mr Fs address,
saying the same thing. Ive now seen evidence from Vitalitys internal systems showing that
these letters were printed, so Im satisfied that its more likely than not that these letters were
sent. Just as I dont think Mr F is responsible for any delays by Vitality in receiving the
completed direct debit mandate, Vitality isnt responsible for any failure by Mr F to receive
the letters which Im satisfied were sent to him in March 2022. And I dont think its
reasonable in these circumstances to expect Vitality to have phoned Mr F before cancelling
his policy, given that Im satisfied it had already sent him three letters about the matter.
Vitality has pointed out that Mr F failed to contact it to confirm if it had received the
completed direct debit mandate. It may have been helpful if Mr F had done this and/or if Mr F
had regularly checked his bank statements to ensure the relevant payments were being
made to Vitality, but I dont think his failure to do these things means it was fair for Vitality to
cancel his insurance policy in circumstances where Im satisfied that Mr F returned the
completed direct debit mandate when he was first asked to do so in February 2022.
Vitality has also mentioned Mr Fs previous payment history but, based on the information
Ive seen, I dont think this is relevant to whether Vitality acted unfairly or unreasonably when
cancelling the policy in 2022. Mr F has referred to ongoing issues with his bank cancelling
direct debits to Vitality, which he says have now been resolved, so Im satisfied this offers a
reasonable explanation as to why the direct debit may have been cancelled in 2022.
Having taken into account all the circumstances of this individual complaint, I dont think
Vitality acted fairly and reasonably when it cancelled Mr Fs policy and refused to reinstate it.
So, I think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Vitality to reinstate Mr Fs
policy, with no break in cover, upon the payment by Mr F of all the premiums dating back to
February 2022. If there is any subsequent dispute about the amount of backdated premiums
due, then Mr F would need to raise this with Vitality as a new complaint in the first instance.
I dont currently intend to award compensation for any distress and inconvenience
experienced by Mr F in this case. I think theres more Mr F could have done to check that
Vitality had received his direct debit mandate and Im satisfied that the provisional direction
which I intend to make provides a fair and reasonable outcome for both parties in the
circumstances.
Mr F has also mentioned Vitalitys delays in responding to his complaint. However, Vitality
provided referral rights to our service in its email of 11 July 2022, as required by the
regulator, so I dont intend to address this point any further.
Vitality didnt agree with my provisional decision. It repeated a number of submissions about 
Mr Fs previous payment history and the timing of what happened in this case. Vitality said, 
in the event that my provisional decision remains unchanged, it wont allow Mr F to pay the 
outstanding premiums by instalments and if Mr Fs premium payments arent made going 
forward, it reserves the right to cancel the policy without allowing reinstatement. 
Mr F said he largely agreed with my provisional decision but asked that I consider directing 
Vitality to waive some of the premiums due and/or offset some of the premiums as 
compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive already addressed the arguments surrounding Mr Fs previous payment history and the 
timing of when Mr F contacted Vitality in my provisional decision. 
My provisional decision also explained why I didnt intend to award any compensation to Mr 
F, and I remain satisfied that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to make such an award in this 
case. I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly direct Vitality 
to waive any of the premiums which would otherwise have been paid for this policy. If Mr F 
wants his policy reinstated, then he needs to pay the premiums in full and I dont think its 
unreasonable for Vitality to determine how it wants any such payment to be made.  
Putting things right
Vitality Health Limited needs to put things right by reinstating Mr Fs policy with no break in 
cover, subject to the payment by Mr F of all the premiums dating back to February 2022. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Fs complaint against Vitality Health Limited, and I direct it to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman