DRN-4371221
The complaint
Miss J has complained about her car insurer One Insurance Limited (OI) because it avoided 
her policy (treated it as though it had never existed) on grounds of misrepresentation and, by 
association, declined her theft claim.
What happened
Miss J was buying a new (to her) car. Her partner was mostly dealing with the purchase on 
her behalf. She arranged the insurance, advising OI she was the registered keeper. The car 
was collected the next day, a Saturday, 20 May 2023 and the policy began. Miss Js partner 
was logged as the registered keeper of the car. On Tuesday, in the early hours of the 
morning, the car was stolen. Miss J made a claim to OI. 
OI noted the registered keeper details differed to that Miss J had given when arranging the 
cover. Miss J was asked why she had said she was the registered keeper. She said she 
thought her partner would put it in her name, but he put it in his. It said that as she had given 
incorrect information (that she was the registered keeper when, in fact, that was her partner) 
it was voiding her cover and declining the claim.
In a letter of 14 June 2023 Miss J told OI that the intention had been for her to be the 
registered keeper, and she had filled out the application accordingly. But then the seller, 
acting in good faith, based on an assumption, incorrectly said her partner was the registered 
keeper. Miss J said the information she had given was correct to the best of her knowledge 
at the time. In a final response letter of 21 July 2023, OI said that had it been told Miss Js 
partner was the registered keeper, it wouldnt have offered cover. It felt it had acted fairly and 
reasonably in avoiding the policy and declining the claim.
Miss J complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. She said again that there had been 
an error by the seller, which she felt had caused OI to think there had been a 
misrepresentation when there hadnt been. When she spoke to our Investigator, Miss J said 
she hadnt realised the seller would use her partners contact details to put the car in his 
name and that they intended to tell the seller to put the car in her name. Shed expected to 
have a conversation with the seller about this, but he recorded her partner as registered 
keeper before theyd had chance to do so. Miss J then said she spoke to her partner, and he 
had recalled telling the seller to put the car in his name.
Our Investigator felt Miss J hadnt taken reasonable care to be sure to give OI the correct 
details about the cars registered keeper. She noted OI wouldnt have given cover where a 
partner to the policyholder was the registered keeper of the car. So she felt OI had acted 
fairly and reasonably in avoiding the cover and declining the claim.
Miss J was unhappy with the outcome. She said she had taken what could be considered to 
be reasonable care for her, as a person with a recent referral for testing for a neurodivergent 
condition. She noted the relevant legislation and said that OI hadnt made enough enquiries 
or investigated adequately to reasonably conclude she hadnt taken reasonable care. Miss J 
said OI hadnt made her aware of the importance of its question about who the registered 
keeper was and what her relationship status was with her partner  so she hadnt seen any 
urgent need to update it about the error by the seller. And nothing in the policy wording 
suggested to her that OI would have difficulty offering her cover.
Miss J also said that her partner had described to her that he remembered having a 
conversation with the seller where (she says) he told the seller that the car would be a 
family car but also explained that he had a company vehicle, so the car would be mine. 
And, following her and her partner having a conversation about whose car this would be, she 
filled out the insurance application. She later told our Investigator that when she filled out the 
application her partner had been sitting with her  and regarding the registered keeper, he 
had said she had given the correct details, that he had already confirmed that with the seller. 
Miss J told our Investigator that shed had to check with her partner what had happened as 
she finds it difficult to recall things accurately.
Our Investigator replied to Miss Js points. She confirmed her view on the complaint had not 
changed. The complaint was referred for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this is very important and upsetting issue for Miss J. But with regret for the 
additional upset I know this will cause her, Im not upholding her complaint.
Misrepresentation
If a prospective policyholder makes a mistake or fails to answer an insurer's question when 
applying for a policy, this is known in the insurance industry as misrepresentation. A 
misrepresentation can have serious consequences for both parties. So there is legislation 
which sets out the rights and obligations of both parties regarding policy applications.
CIDRA
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) requires a 
prospective policyholder to take reasonable care to not make any misrepresentation to the 
insurer when applying for cover. If a misrepresentation is made which is a qualifying 
misrepresentation, then the insurer will be allowed to take certain action. 
Qualifying misrepresentation
Whether or not a misrepresentation is seen to be a qualifying one depends on two things. 
First, did the prospective policyholder take reasonable care when they gave the answer they 
did? Second, can the insurer show that if correct/full detail had been, it wouldnt have 
entered into the insurance contract, or it would, but only on different terms? What the insurer 
would have done is often a matter of fact  and I have seen evidence in that respect here 
which Ill come onto shortly. Whether the prospective policyholder took reasonable care will 
depend on a variety of factors and, in my view, is the real issue at the heart of this complaint.What the insurer would have done differently
All insurers consider risk and make decisions about what risks they are and are not prepared 
to offer cover against. What is acceptable to one insurer may not be to another, or may be 
but only with certain restrictions being applied, or an extra excess or increased premium 
being charged. Appetite for risk is a matter for an insurers commercial judgement and as 
long as an insurer treats everyone in similar circumstances the same, this service wont 
interfere. And an insurers appetite for risk is usually commercially sensitive detail  so it isnt 
something which is shared with policyholders or detailed in any way in the policy documents. 
Rather, an insurer asks questions about the issues of importance to it and, usually at the end 
of an application, confirms that the applicant understands that those questions must be fully 
and correctly answered. I note OI did that here. 
Partly to ensure everyone is treated the same, OI, as do many insurers, has a list of risks it 
will accept. Anything outside of that list is unacceptable to OI. OIs list shows that it will 
accept an application from a policyholder who is not the registered keeper of the car if the 
registered keeper is their spouse. As Miss J and her partner are not married, I accept that 
with the vehicle documents recording him as the registered keeper, that would have made 
Miss J an unacceptable risk for OI. In other words it would not have offered a policy to her.  
Reasonable care
When Miss J arranged this policy, she was asked who is the keeper of the car. The 
application was pre-populated with proposer/policyholder. Miss J thought that was correct 
so left it that way. 
I think the question asked was clear. And it was clear, with the use of is, that the situation, 
as it stood at the point of application, was being asked about. OI wasnt asking about what 
the intent of the proposer was, or what arrangements they thought had been made.  It was 
up to Miss J to take reasonable care to answer that question to the best of her knowledge.
The legislation clarifies that the reasonable care standard is that of a reasonable consumer. 
The legislation doesnt set different standards for anyone who feels or can show they do not 
operate other than a reasonable consumer would. Although the legislation does require an 
insurer, when considering if reasonable care was taken, where it knew or should reasonably 
have known of a particular characteristic or circumstance which might affect the applicants 
conduct, to take that into account. Here, Miss J has not yet had a diagnosis for her condition, 
and, with her only just applying for the policy, she had not had a chance to tell OI about that. 
I know Miss J had recently had a burglary at her home too  but I think its fair to say that a 
reasonable consumer would be operating under various stresses and strains like this. I dont 
think there was any characteristic or circumstance OI knew or should reasonably have 
known about for it to take into account when considering whether or not Miss J had taken 
reasonable care. 
That said I note that Miss J herself was aware at the time of purchasing the car and 
arranging the insurance, that she, for a number of reasons, was suffering incredible pressure 
and stress. I understand that Miss J has recently said her partner helped her with the 
application  or at least sat with her, offering advice where requested about answers Miss J 
gave. And shes said shes now checked with him also about what happened during the 
purchase of the car, particularly as she has difficulty remembering. But I note that within a 
few weeks of the policy being arranged, Miss J told OI that whilst she thought the car was 
going in her name, her partner had put it in his name. And in the 14 June 2023 letter that the 
seller had made an assumption about who the keeper would be. Even if Miss J had been 
confused or somewhat unaware of the exact circumstances of the purchase when she 
initially verbally answered OIs questions, shed had a chance to check all of that when she wrote her letter of 14 June 2023. At no time did Miss J say shed checked with her partner 
how the purchase had been arranged or that hed helped her with the application. And this 
service often views the detail given closest to the occasion to be the most accurate. 
I totally accept that Miss J intended to be the keeper for this car. That she and her partner 
had agreed that would be the case. But I dont think that Miss J, or her partner acting for her 
in the purchase of the vehicle, were specific enough with the seller to ensure that happened. 
And whilst I realise that the sale eventually completed at a pace, neither Miss J nor her 
partner confirmed in writing with the seller what their intentions were. Consequently the 
seller did not advise Miss J, or her partner that the car had been registered or would shortly 
be registered in the partners name. So Miss J answered OIs question based on what she 
believed would happen  without confirming matters. Im satisfied that OIs view that Miss J 
did not take reasonable care when arranging the cover with it was fair and reasonable.
What does CIDRA allow OI to do
Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable to say Miss J did not take reasonable care, and 
Ive seen that OI would have acted differently if it had been told Miss Js partner was the 
registered keeper. Which means Im also satisfied it was fair and reasonable for OI to think a 
qualifying misrepresentation was made by Miss J. Where a qualifying misrepresentation is 
made, CIDRA allows the insurer to act as it would otherwise have done. Here, if Miss J had 
checked with the seller and been told the car would go in her partners name, and shed told 
OI that in her application  Im satisfied that it wouldnt have offered a policy to her. OI 
avoided Miss Js policy, refunding her the premium paid. In the circumstances, I think that 
was in line with the legislation. Im satisfied OI acted fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against One Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman