DRN-2146954
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with St Andrews Insurance Plc (SAI) handling of an escape of water 
claim on his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ws insurance policy is branded by a building society, but it is underwritten by 
SAI, so it is responsible for all claims handling. SAI is also responsible for all actions by its 
contractors or agents.
In February 2019 Mr W claimed on his policy as he had discovered water damage in his flat. 
The leaks were found to be from the properties above. Mr W is unhappy that his insurer 
hasnt recovered his excess from his neighbours, he feels the communication has been 
poor, the claim has been delayed and the claim handling has been poor.
In June 2019, SAI reviewed Mr Ws complaint and accepted that there were a number of 
areas of the claim that brought it concern. It acknowledged the service Mr W had received 
was not to its usual high standard and apologised for it and paid Mr W £250 for the 
inconvenience. Mr W was assured the claim would be put back on track. However, Mr W has 
continued to be unhappy with the claim handling. He complained again to SAI who advised 
him he could approach this service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ws complaint. She didnt feel the £250 compensation was 
enough and increased it by a further £200, totalling £450 overall. Mr W hasnt responded, 
but SAI didnt accept her view of the complaint. Although it acknowledged Mr Ws claim was 
not handled as promptly as it wouldve liked, it felt its offer of compensation was fair and in 
line with awards this service gives for similar delays. It feels it shouldnt be held responsible 
for delays from mid-September to when it offered a cash settlement in January 2020. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has raised several points in his complaint, so Ill address these in turn.
Excess
I understand Mr W feels strongly that his excess should be returned to him as he feels 
SAI shouldve recovered it from his neighbours, and he doesnt see why he should be out of 
pocket for something that wasnt his fault. I can appreciate his strength of feeling on this. 
However, as stated in the policy the excess is the first part of any claim that the insured has 
to pay, so this is the contract that Mr W entered into  this is common across the insurance 
industry.
A business can sometimes look to recover the excess from a third party, for example if it is 
found that the third party was negligent. But in this instance that wasnt the case so 
SAI decided in June 2019, that the excess couldnt be recovered. SAI shouldve made this 
clear to Mr W and from what Ive seen I dont think it was. However, as I said above, an 
excess is due for any claim made on the policy. So, Im not going to tell SAI to refund this.
Communication
In any claim of this nature there will be an element of inconvenience. A consumer will have 
to speak with different contractors, arrange access to the property and choose materials for 
redecoration etc. I understand Mr W is unhappy that he has had to deal with several different 
contractors and parties, and he feels SAI as his insurer shouldve dealt with this. 
I can see SAI appointed a personal claim consultant (PCC) to help manage the claim but the 
strip out works took much longer than it shouldve, and this was due to the contractors not 
communicating with one another, or not following the directions of the PCC, for example 
removal of all Mr Ws belongings was not followed as directed so it took more than one visit 
from the removal company for this to be done and delayed the claim further. 
SAI were also aware that Mr W worked off-shore so this made it more difficult for Mr W to 
arrange handover of keys etc. I think if SAI or its PCC had set clear expectations around 
how the claim would progress and how it would communicate what was happening to Mr W, 
this wouldve helped Mr W to understand the process and handle the claim better. Mr W told 
SAI on more than one occasion how stressed he was feeling and informed it when he was 
signed off by his doctor for three weeks due to stress that he says was related to this claim. 
Im satisfied SAI didnt communicate as well as it shouldve and will take this into account 
when looking at the overall handling of the claim and any compensation awarded.
Delays and outstanding works
I can see it took from 15 February until 18 April 2019 for the leaks to be fully discovered and 
fixed. I understand this wouldve felt like a long period of time to Mr W, but the fixing of the 
leaks was a third partys responsibility so I cant hold SAI responsible for how long it took to 
stop the leaks in the properties above Mr Ws.
However, it took from 18 April to 12 July 2019 to dry the property. SAI has said It is not 
standard industry practice to rip up the entire floor of a policy holders apartment at first 
glance following an escape of water but to minimise the strip outs to the only areas that are 
affected by the water. This is to minimise costs and disruption. I fully appreciate this point 
but, SAI were aware of the longevity of the leak and I think it couldve done more to check 
the extent of the damage. It had moved Mr W to alternate accommodation in late April, so it 
had the opportunity to check the property.
Also, as I mentioned earlier the contractors were not communicating with one another and 
that led to avoidable delays during this period. I note once the full strip out was completed it 
took only a couple more weeks for the property to be deemed dry. So, Im persuaded SAI 
shouldve done more to prevent this part of the delay in the claim and it is more likely than 
not that the property wouldve been dried much sooner if it had been done correctly.
Once the property was dry, the works to repair the damaged areas were booked in within a 
reasonable timeframe.
I understand when the works were completed in August, Mr W wasnt happy with the 
cleanliness of his flat. He also didnt want to wait nine days for the property to be cleaned by a SAI contractor, so he did it himself. SAI have since paid Mr W £300 for this. I think this is 
fair and reasonable as it allows Mr W to have his flat professionally cleaned if he should wish 
to.
Mr W is also unhappy with the standard of repairs. SAI hasnt disputed that the works 
werent completed to an acceptable standard. So, any time taken to re-do the works is an 
avoidable delay.
Our investigator therefore said from 22 August 2019 to 31 January when SAI offered a cash 
settlement was an avoidable delay caused by SAI. SAI have disagreed. It says they had to 
remove their contractor from completing the snagging issues due to an incident that 
happened on 13 September 2019 between Mr W and one of the tradesmen working at 
Mr Ws flat. I can see SAI feels strongly that it isnt responsible for the delay from this point. I 
can also see Mr W has denied the incident. I cant know with any certainty what happened 
as I was not there, the parties disagree about what happened, and theres no objective 
evidence to show me what happened. However, I wouldnt expect any business to put its 
contractors at risk if it felt there was one. So, I think its reasonable that SAI has since 
offered a cash settlement to finish any outstanding works. 
But I still need to consider the time it took to make this offer. It took SAI until end of January 
2020 to make a settlement offer. I recognise it felt removing the contractor was the right 
thing to do, but it has said it only had minor snagging issues left to complete. So, regardless 
of the reason for withdrawal from doing the works, I dont think a four month delay to making 
an offer for finishing minor snagging issues was reasonable and I agree with our investigator 
that SAI is responsible for the delay in this period.
I understand that Mr W would like SAI to finish the work, or at least send the PCC to look at 
what needs doing. I can see a list of outstanding works was obtained from the contractor if 
this hasnt been shared with Mr W it might help if it was, so he knows what he needs to 
produce quotes for or receipts, if he has already had the work completed. But I also note the 
policy wording says, Depending on the extent and type of damage, we can rebuild, repair, 
or replace your things, or give you a cash payment. So, SAI has done nothing wrong in 
offering to settle the claim by way of a cash payment. So, I wont be instructing it to return to 
the property.
I can see SAI offered £500 by way of settlement but Mr W has declined it. It has given Mr W 
an opportunity to submit an amount that he wants to settle the claim, any estimates he gets 
and receipts for things hes already completed. The estimate of £465 Mr W has already 
submitted for the skirting boards to be re-done has been approved by SAI. Its up to Mr W if 
he would like to submit anything further for SAI to consider and this needs to be done as 
soon as possible to enable this claim to be completed.
Loss of earnings
Mr W is also unhappy that SAI has declined to cover loss of earnings.
Loss of earnings isnt covered under the terms of Mr Ws policy. So, I can only tell SAI to 
cover this if SAI caused it by way of an error. When making a claim there is unfortunately 
some inconvenience involved with this. This isnt the fault of the insurer  its due to the 
nature of making a claim.
Mr W says he had to decline additional off-shore work on 10 May 2019, due to having to 
arrange for the keys to be handed over to the contractors and being worried about what 
would happen to his belongings as the insurer was only willing to pay for the alternative accommodation whilst he was onshore. He says hes lost a substantial amount of money 
due to this.
SAI has explained that their PCCs dont hold keys for the properties they look after claims 
for. So, it would be Mr Ws responsibility to ensure that the contractors had access to his 
property. I can understand this was more difficult for Mr W as he works off-shore. But I dont 
think SAIs handling of this was unreasonable. So, I wont be asking it to cover the money 
Mr W wouldve received if he had gone offshore.
Putting things right
Overall, I think SAI has poorly communicated and caused delays in this claim and £250 isnt 
sufficient for the impact caused to Mr W. I therefore direct SAI to pay Mr W a further £200, 
totalling £450 in compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint.
I instruct SAI to increase the compensation by a further £200, totalling £450 compensation 
overall.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman