DRN-2656785
The complaint
Mr G complained that West Bromwich Building Society (WBBS) misled him about how to 
deal with a form sent to him and his former partner, and a consequence of this was that his 
former partner took him to court. 
What happened
Mr G and his former partner had a joint residential mortgage with WBBS. They decided to 
end their relationship in early 2019 and began taking steps to put the mortgage and property 
in Mr Gs former partners name. They both continued to live at the property while this was 
being dealt with.  
In around June 2020 WBBS sent a letter addressed to both Mr G and his former partner. It 
appears Mr Gs former partner was the only person who needed to sign a document 
contained in the letter. Mr G said his former partner took the document to deal with it and he 
remained unsure about whether he also needed to sign it. So Mr G rang WBBS on four 
separate occasions to check whether he needed to sign the document. On 28 July 2020 
WBBS confirmed with Mr G what the document was and that he didnt need to sign it. 
Mr G complained to WBBS as he said his former partner took legal action against him at 
around this time. Mr G felt she wouldnt have done this if he hadnt needed to delay signing a 
land registry document until he finished making enquiries with WBBS about the document it 
sent to him in June 2020. Mr G felt the court proceedings wouldnt have happened but for 
the delays caused by WBBS.  
WBBS responded and said when Mr G first rang it on 15 June 2020 it wasnt able to accept 
his call and so it could only provide him with generic information. It said confusion arose 
during the calls it took from Mr G on 20 June 2020 and 4 July 2020. It said Mr G told it he 
was concerned about the missing Transfer form and it took this to mean the Transfer of 
Equity form it had previously sent to him. However, it had received this in January 2020 and 
so this was not the form Mr G was referring to as having been sent to him in June 2020. 
 
WBBS apologised for the distress and inconvenience caused at what it said was an already 
difficult time for Mr G. It said it knew Mr G had taken photographs of the document and it 
should have done more to understand what the document was. It said, had it done this, it 
would have been able to let Mr G know that it didnt require his signature. 
WBBS said the confusion came to light during Mr Gs call with it on 28 July 2020, although it 
had earlier let his solicitor know this on 7 July 2020. It said it didnt agree that the confusion 
directly resulted in Mr Gs former partner taking court action. However, it said it should have 
done more to understand the paperwork Mr G believed was missing. It offered Mr G £100 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. WBBS also said it didnt inappropriately disclose 
information to Mr G during the call on 28 July 2020. It said it simply confirmed information 
Mr G had already told it about, namely that his former partner was taking him to court. 
Mr G remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. Mr G didnt agree with what our investigator 
said and so this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
I want to start by saying I dont doubt that having to leave the home he shared with his 
former partner will have been a big upheaval for both Mr G and his family. So I appreciate 
that his circumstances are difficult now and have been for some time. 
For me to uphold Mr Gs complaint, I would have to be satisfied that the error made by 
WBBS in not telling him sooner that he didnt need to sign the document sent to him in 
June 2020 led to Mr Gs former partner starting court proceedings against him. And that this 
resulted in him having to leave the house they used to share sooner than expected.  
WBBS acknowledged that when Mr G called it, it should have done more to establish what 
document Mr G was referring to. And this would have meant it could have reassured him 
sooner that he didnt need to sign any documents enclosed in the June 2020 letter. So I 
dont intend to look into the issue of whether WBBS could have done more when Mr G rang 
it, because it has already agreed it could have. 
Ive looked at whether it would be fair to say that Mr Gs former partner most likely began 
court proceedings against him because of the time taken by WBBS to let Mr G know it didnt 
need his signature. And I dont think it would be fair to hold WBBS responsible. 
Mr G said that in around June 2020 he needed to sign a land registry form related to the 
transfer of the property and he delayed signing this while he was making enquiries with 
WBBS about the document in the letter. And he said his former partner thought he was 
deliberately delaying matters and wasnt being honest about what WBBS was telling him. 
Mr G believes it was this single incident that prompted his former partner to start court 
proceedings.  
From what Mr G said when making his complaint to this service, he believes that 100% of 
the difficulties that arose with his former partner from June 2020 could have been prevented 
if his former partner hadnt thought he was lying to her. But, from Mr Gs own account of 
things, I think its fair to say that by the time he and his former partner received the letter in 
question from WBBS, their relationship was already, unfortunately, quite acrimonious. It was 
always the case that Mr G was going to have to leave the home he shared with his former 
partner and Im satisfied the timing of the court proceeding some weeks after the letter from 
WBBS was more than likely coincidental. And that the court proceedings most likely 
happened as a result of the breakdown in Mr G and his former partners relationship.
So Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair to say theres a link between the delay in WBBS 
clarifying that Mr G didnt need to sign the documents enclosed in the letter dated from 
June 2020 and the instigation of court proceedings by his former partner. 
I know that the delay caused by WBBS meant Mr G experienced some distress and 
inconvenience, but I think the amount of £100 already offered by WBBS is fair. So I wont be 
asking WBBS to take any further action.Mr G also mentioned that he was unhappy WBBS disclosed information to him about court 
proceedings being undertaken by his former partner. I take the view that the information 
disclosed wasnt about Mr G, it was information about his former partner. And if this service 
was to look into this, then it would only be if Mr Gs former partner complained to us. 
However, if Mr G wants to follow this up, then I think it might be more appropriate for him to 
contact the Information Commissioners Office, as thats the body who deals with possible 
data breaches. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman