DRN-3288129
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Bestinvest (Consultants) Limited have not been able to locate his 
investment.
What happened
Mr H invested £10,000 in 2005 in a fund Ill call D. In 2017 he wanted to sell his investment 
but the fund managers had no record of his investment. He believed that the investment was 
placed through Bestinvest as he had received statements from them. However Bestinvest 
had no record of the investment.
Our investigator considered the complaint and made further enquiries. The evidence showed 
that the investment wasnt purchased via Bestinvest, but that they had done all they could to 
locate it, so she didnt find that Bestinvest had done anything wrong.
Mr H appealed. He felt it was likely that when Bestinvest changed to an online platform they 
lost track of his investment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BestInvest have carried out a thorough search of all their systems and platforms in order to 
trace any investment held by Mr H. This revealed that the investment that Mr H is searching 
for wasnt arranged by them, held with them in any format or held in their custody. Im 
satisfied that those searches were properly made and therefore there is no evidence on 
which I could conclude that the investment was placed through or is with BestInvest. 
I have not disregarded the documentation that Mr H has provided. Ive seen evidence that an 
investment was made in 2005. However I understand that Mr Hs wife also made an 
investment at the same time, her investment being sold in 2006. Although Mr H has only 
demonstrated that one investment was made, I accept it may be that two were made. Ive 
considered too the letters that Mr H refers to as evidence of his investment dated January 
2011 and June 2017. These are headed with his name, but actually have a reference 
referring to his wife. BestInvest have also explained that the account number doesnt match 
accounts that they may have set up as the initial letters are not ones they would use.
BestInvest did show the investment in these review letters, to enable investors to see the 
total portfolio in one place. I understand that this may have caused some confusion, but I 
note that the 2017 review letter advised that investments not arranged through BestInvest 
could be recorded but warned that the record may not be accurate. So I dont find that the 
review letters are evidence that the investment was made through BestInvest.
BestInvest offered an execution only service. In 2005 it used two platforms for client 
investments as it didnt have its own. Our investigator reached out to both firms used by 
BestInvest at the time. Although investments were found in Mr Hs name they were not the 
investment made in 2005 for which he is now searching.
I recognise that my decision will be disappointing for Mr H but Im satisfied that BestInvest 
acted appropriately in response to Mr Hs request and thorough searches have not revealed 
that the investment he is searching for was placed through them. It follows that there is no 
basis on which I could require it to take any further steps.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman