DRN-1965309
The complaint
Its agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (as the insurer) should accept responsibility 
for the complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Ms L says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In February 1997 Ms L applied for a store card  she remembered completing an application 
form in the store while she was shopping.
In January 1998, PPI was added to her account following a telephone call.
Its likely that the policy cost no more than £1.00 per £100 Ms L owed on her store card and 
it protected Ms Ls store card monthly repayments if she couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ls complaint. Ms L disagreed. 
In summary, Ms Ls main complaints are that the policy was mis-sold because she received 
ample employee benefits which wouldve completely covered her for both sick pay and 
redundancy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ls complaint. Ill explain my reasons for saying this.
AXA hasnt been able to provide a call recording or a copy of the call script used at the time. 
So I dont know what it said to Ms L when the policy was sold. But based on what this 
service knows about the sales process it seems likely that AXA wouldve taken the 
opportunity to explain the main features of the policy to see if Ms L wanted to take it out. 
Given that the policy was taken out when shed already had her store card for almost a year 
without PPI, I think Ms L wouldve been aware that the policy was optional. 
And looking at Ms Ls circumstances at the time, I can see that she mightve had a use for 
the policy.
On balance, I think its likely that the PPI was added to her account when Ms L chose to buy 
the policy offered because she wanted to protect her card monthly repayments. 
I dont think AXA advised Ms L to take out the PPI. This means AXA didnt have to make 
sure the policy was suitable for her. But it still had to provide Ms L with clear information 
about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to take it out. 
Looking at the sort of policy that its likely Ms L had it appears that she was eligible for the 
cover it offered. 
The policy paid out a benefit if Ms L couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. It couldve covered her monthly repayments on the card until the outstanding 
balance was cleared if she wasnt able to go back to work. It wouldve paid out on top of sick 
pay. This couldve been a useful benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult time if Ms L 
needed to claim as she mightve had extra costs if she was ill or disabled. 
Being entitled to redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped Ms L if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve got if shed 
lost her job, giving her some additional financial security in those circumstances. I think this 
couldve been a particularly useful benefit given that Ms L had only recently started her new 
job  so her redundancy entitlement was likely to be limited. 
Ms L doesnt appear to have had any significant other means she couldve used to cover the 
store card monthly repayments if she wasnt working. 
So I think Ms L couldve benefitted from having the policy. 
Its possible some of the information AXA gave Ms L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. It looks like Ms L hadnt 
been working for long enough to be able to make a claim under the unemployment part of 
the policy until shed been in her job another couple of months. But I dont think having more 
information about the circumstances in which the policy wouldnt pay out wouldve affected 
her decision to take out PPI. I say this because it doesnt look as if there wouldve been any 
significant or long term reasons why Ms L wouldnt have been able to take advantage of all 
the policy benefits. And she could still have taken advantage of the other benefits the policy 
offered straightaway. So, I dont think that knowing more about what the policy didnt cover 
wouldve put Ms L off taking the policy out.   
I dont know if AXA explained the cost of the policy clearly enough for Ms L to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But, taking everything into account, I think its 
likely that if Ms L had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she still wouldve 
thought the policy potentially useful. Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the policy 
was a problem for Ms L when she signed up to have it. And she took it out when she didnt 
have to, so it seems she wanted the cover. 
Looked at overall, I dont think having clearer information wouldve put Ms L off taking out the 
policy, given her situation at the time.
This means that, even if AXA didnt give Ms L all the information it shouldve done when it 
sold her the policy, I dont find that Ms L has lost out as a result of anything that AXA did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account everything that Ms L has said in response 
to our adjudicators view - including what shes said about the way another claim shes made 
was dealt with. But I am concerned here just with her complaint about the PPI sold with this 
store card. So these points dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman