DRN-3069124
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc rejected his claim against it under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr G bought solar panels for his home in 2013. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Hitachi Capital, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr G into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Gs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr G, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Hitachi Capital disagreed, saying that it didnt agree that Mr G had argued that 
the solar panels had been misrepresented to him as being self-funding. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hitachi Capital is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr G was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Hitachi Capital didnt treat Mr G fairly and he lost out because of what Hitachi 
Capital did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Although Mr G didnt use the phrase self-funding in his complaint, he described the 
following:
the representative explained the benefits of the system and advised that Mr G would benefit 
from savings on his electricity bills and payments from the feed in tariff (FIT). The total 
benefits receivable would cover the overall costs associated with the system within a few 
years of installation.
I think it is highly likely that Mr G was told this  given it matches what was shown in the 
sales literature he was given. And, noting that the loan was repayable over an eight-year 
term, I think that provides context for what was meant by a few years. In this context, I 
would expect a few years to be less than the eight years of the loan term. So, to pay for itself 
within the loan term, the benefits of the system (in energy savings and FIT payments) 
wouldve had to at least match the monthly loan repayments during that time. In other words, 
the system would be self-funding. But the benefits of the system did not do this (and were 
never likely to).
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Gs complaint for Hitachi Capital to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr G from the solar 
panels over the eight-year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr G is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Hitachi Capital needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show 
that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be 
shared with Mr G by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Hitachi 
Capital to restructure Mr Gs loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr G in a position 
where the solar panel system is cost neutral over the eight-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr G have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr G and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr G and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr G accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr G has settled the loan, Hitachi Capital should pay him the difference between what he 
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mr G has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Hitachi Capital and Hitachi Capital should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr G paid each month with the Hitachi Capital loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr G receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr G paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr G receives his refund.5. Pay Mr G the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he wouldve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr G first 
contacted Hitachi Capital that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Hitachi 
Capital should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman