DRN-3189914
The complaint
Mr J complains that he was given unsuitable advice by County Capital Wealth Management 
Limited trading as The Pension Review Service (CC) to transfer the benefits from his 
defined-benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Js employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits 
to a private pension arrangement.
Mr J was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security of 
his DB scheme. So, he contacted another firm (which Ill refer to as Firm A) for advice in 
July 2017. Firm A completed a fact-find, pension transfer questionnaire and risk profile with 
Mr J. It also produced a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report and Mr J says it verbally 
advised him to transfer out of the BSPS to a personal pension.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose leaflet, giving them 
the option to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 22 December 2017.
In December 2017, Firm A informed Mr J that it couldnt complete the transfer for him due to 
restrictions to their regulatory permissions. It explained that if he still wanted to transfer he 
had to make alternative arrangements. It also reminded Mr J of the deadline by which he 
needed to make his choice. Firm A ultimately referred Mr J to CC for advice.
CC completed its own fact find in December 2017. This showed Mr J was 50, married, in 
good health and was earning around £40,000 per year. Mr J had minimal savings of around 
£1,500, but owned a holiday home on which he received rental income of £450 per month. 
He had mortgages and a loan on both his residential property and holiday home totalling 
around £70,000. Mr J was member of his employers new money purchase pension, with his 
contributions being 6% of his salary and employers contributions of 10%. His risk profile was 
recorded as being balanced.
A pension transfer questionnaire, also completed in December 2017, recorded that Mr J was 
considering a transfer because he wanted to retire at age 55 and he preferred that whatever 
was remaining of his pension when he died was left to his family. He also said he didnt have 
any faith in his employer or that BSPS2 would be any good.
On 28 December 2017, CC advised Mr J to transfer his BSPS benefits into a personal 
pension and invest his funds through a discretionary fund management firm (DFM). The 
suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were that Mr J wanted to access 
his pension flexibly at age 55 and leave the funds invested and CCs cashflow analysis had 
shown his financial position would potentially improve. Also the transfer value of his final 
salary scheme could be secured as a financial asset that could be passed on to his family in 
the event of his death. Mr J accepted the advice and the transfer of his BSPS benefits went 
ahead in 2018.
Mr J, through his representative, complained in 2019 to Firm A and CC about the suitability 
of the transfer advice. Mr J said he never met with CC and transferred based on the advice 
given by Firm A. He said he shouldve been advised to opt into the BSPS2.
Firm A told Mr J it hadnt provided him with advice to transfer his pension  it said it had 
referred him to CC. CC didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. It said by the time Mr J had been 
referred to CC he had missed his opportunity to join the BSPS2, so his complaint should lie 
with Firm A.
Mr J referred his complaints about both businesses to this service. Firm A has since gone 
into liquidation and so this service cannot consider the complaint against it anymore.
An investigator thought the advice CC gave Mr J was unsuitable and said it should 
compensate Mr J for the losses he incurred by transferring his DB pension. She said 
compensation should be based on Mr J having moved his pension to the PPF given the 
deadline for joining the BSPS2 had passed by the time CC gave its advice.
CC disagreed. It said it was only providing a bureau service for Firm A and it was Firm As 
adviser who took Mr J through the cash flow analysis and reports. CC says Firm A played a 
key role in advising Mr J and Mr J had already decided to transfer based on Firm As advice, 
so it should be held responsible for Mr Js alleged loss. CC added using the critical yields 
required to match Mr Js BSPS benefits alone as a basis for upholding the complaint was 
unreasonable. It also said it was unreasonable to compare the discount rates and critical 
yields as they do not measure the same thing.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
I informed both parties of a change to the redress calculation, which takes account of the 
impact of the BSPS trustees buying an insurance policy as part of the process of the pension 
scheme exiting its PPF assessment and completing a buy-out.
CC didnt think the redress amendment was fair because it required CC to carry out another 
calculation to determine if additional redress was payable once the buy-out completed. CC 
said it should only have to compensate Mr J based on the position hed be in now, not at 
another point in the future. It said this meant Mr J was getting the best of both worlds. CC 
added that if it had known at the time of the advice that the BSPS would be bought out of the 
PPF, it wouldnt have advised Mr J to transfer his benefits.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, CC should have only considered a transfer if they could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Js best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked 
at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied the transfer was in his best interests. Ill explain 
why.Financial viability
CCs suitability report says that Mr J did not have a specific retirement age in mind, but the 
fact-find completed by CC states that Mr Js desired retirement age was 55. It said he 
wanted to access the tax-free cash (TFC) available to him at 55 to pay off his mortgage and 
loan but he was undecided on when he would take pension income. Firm As fact-find and 
pension transfer questionnaire says Mr J anticipated retiring between age 55 and 60  it said 
he would make an assessment of his situation at 55. So, I think its fair to say here that Mr J 
was certainly expecting to retire before age 65, and probably closer to age 60.
CC carried out a TVAS showing the average investment return required in the new pension 
to match the DB pension benefits (critical yield) if Mr J took TFC was quoted as 5.06% per 
year at age 65 and 10.48% at age 55. But by the time the advice was given to Mr J, his only 
option was to move with the scheme to the PPF. So, I think this is the most relevant figure to 
use. The critical yield to match the benefits available in the PPF if Mr J took TFC was 4.25% 
at age 65 and 8.21% at age 55. It didnt provide critical yields for Mr J retiring at age 60, but 
this wouldve been somewhere in between these two figures.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. The closest discount rate to this time which 
I'm able to refer to was published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 
1 October 2017. It was 3% per year for 4 years to retirement (age 55) or 4.2% per year for 
14 years to retirement (age 65). For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate 
at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per 
year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate. Even 
taking the lowest critical yield here (4.25%), which was a comparison to the PPF at age 65, 
there was a risk Mr J wouldnt have been able to match, let alone exceed his DB benefits in 
the personal pension if he was invested in line with a medium risk strategy as suggested. 
And given what Mr J said about wanting to retire early, I think the critical yield wouldve been 
somewhere between the 4.25% and 8.21% quoted.
CC says it is unreasonable to take the discount rate into account because it isnt a fair 
comparison to the critical yield. But I still think the discount rate provides a useful indication 
of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when the advice 
was given in this case. And in any event, Ive also considered whether the regulators middle 
projection rate of 5% was achievable. Given Mr J was likely to retire early, meaning the 
critical yield wouldve been above 4.25%, I still dont think he wouldve likely been able to 
match or exceed the benefits available to him through the PPF if he transferred out of the 
BSPS.
However, CC has said it told Mr J that the critical yields if he retired at age 55 were not 
achievable. Instead, CC says it recommended Mr J transfer out of the BSPS to meet his 
other objectives, although it says the cash flow models demonstrate that Mr J could meet his 
income requirements by transferring to a personal pension.
Ive considered CCs cash flow models which it says showed Mr J could have been 
significantly better off in the personal pension plan. They compared his existing situation with 
scenarios where his transfer value grew a) only in line with inflation, b) assuming returns of 
the recommended investment portfolio based on historic returns and c) a stress test where 
the transfer value fell by 14% in the first couple of years and then performed in line with 
historic returns of the asset allocation of the recommended portfolio.I firstly note that in the model for Mr Js existing financial position, for the total income, CC 
used an annual pension figure of £18,329 per year, which was the sum available to Mr J 
through the BSPS if he retired at age 55. But that figure was irrelevant because the only 
option Mr J actually had when the advice was given was for his benefits to enter the PPF. 
The figure also failed to include the annual increases on the BSPS/PPF benefits in payment. 
Also, as CC will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so 
I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time. CCs models also show that if returns were only in line with 
inflation or there was poor performance for a couple of years, Mr Js financial assets would 
actually be lower in the long-term than if he kept his DB pension.
Overall, Im satisfied that by transferring his pension it was unlikely Mr Js benefits would 
match, let alone exceed his existing benefits in the DB scheme. Instead there was a real risk 
he would be worse off in retirement. So based on the above alone, a transfer wasnt in Mr Js 
best interest.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as CC 
has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Concerns about financial stability of BSPS
Mr J approached Firm A as he was concerned about his BSPS pension. CCs fact-find 
doesnt include much detail about why Mr J was concerned, but Firm As fact-find and 
pension transfer questionnaire states that Mr J had lost faith in his employer and the scheme 
trustees. CCs suitability report further stated that Mr J had already decided that he did not 
want to keep his pension benefits in the BSPS.
Its quite possible that Mr J came to CC leaning towards the decision to transfer. However, it 
was CCs obligation to recommend what was in his best interests. Mr J, like many of his 
colleagues, was concerned about the BSPS moving to the PPF. But from what Ive seen, CC 
didnt provide Mr J with an objective picture about the PPF and what this might mean for him 
specifically.
Mr J was clearly interested in retiring early and this was still possible in the PPF. In fact, the 
early retirement reductions were lower in the PPF than in the BSPS. I dont think this was 
shared with Mr J, instead, he was given the impression that because he wanted to retire 
early, he would be better off transferring out of the BSPS. However, as the figures above 
show, even if this happened, Mr J was still likely to be better off by not transferring out. 
I cant see that this was properly explained to him.
And in any event, I think Mr Js concerns were with his employer generally. And I dont think 
CC explained that Mr Js scheme benefits entering the PPF would remove his pension from 
his employers control. It seems to me that an explanation along those lines wouldve gone 
some way to reassuring Mr J about his concerns.
Overall, I dont think CC did much to alleviate Mr Js concerns and fears. Instead, it appears 
to have used these concerns to justify the transfer.
Flexibility
One of CCs main arguments in support of its recommendation to transfer was that Mr J 
wanted to pay off his mortgage and loan at age 55, but he wasnt sure if he wanted to take 
pension income at that point. This comes back to Mr Js uncertainty around when hed actually retire. So, CC says he needed to be able to access his pension flexibly as he 
couldnt take TFC without also taking his pension income through the PPF. It also says this 
flexibility would allow Mr J to take a higher income from his pension at first before reducing it 
when his state benefits became payable.
But an adviser's job isn't simply to facilitate a customer's objectives. Any objectives should 
be interrogated thoroughly to determine whether or not they are realistic, or achievable 
through other means. And ultimately, the adviser has to determine whether giving up the 
secure, guaranteed benefits available through the PPF was in Mr J's best interests.
CCs fact-find says at the time of the advice, Mr J had a mortgage of £60,000 ending in 2028 
(when Mr J would be around 61 years old) and a loan of £10,000 ending in 2022 (when Mr J 
would be around 55). So, at the earliest age Mr J could think about retiring, the loan 
wouldve been cleared, and the mortgage wouldve had substantially less than £60,000 to 
repay. Based on the repayments of £550 per month and the remaining term, I think the 
mortgage balance would be around £30,000 at age 55. And if Mr J actually retired around 60 
years old, the mortgage wouldve almost been cleared.  
So, in my view, Mr J had very little need to access his TFC from his pension before retiring; 
at most hed need a capital sum of around £30,000 to clear the remaining mortgage at 55. 
And even less capital would be required (if at all) if he retired closer to age 60 or 65, which 
was a distinct possibility. Given the mortgage repayments were only £550 per month, they 
were not unaffordable or having an impact on Mr and Mrs Js lifestyle. So, clearing the 
remaining mortgage doesnt seem to have been a pressing need, and certainly not one that I 
think shouldve necessitated Mr J giving up a secure, guaranteed, escalating pension 
income in retirement. For this reason, I dont think CC shouldve advised Mr J to transfer out 
of the BSPS simply to repay a small, affordable mortgage at 55, particularly when Mr J 
hadnt decided when he was likely to stop working. 
Furthermore, Mr J was contributing to another pension  around £6,000 per year including 
his employers contributions  meaning he would have access to a fund of more than 
£30,000 at age 55. If Mr J genuinely wanted to repay whatever was remaining on his 
mortgage at age 55, or before age 65, I think it wouldve been in his best interests to use this 
fund to do so. So, I think Mr J should've been advised to remain in the BSPS and move with 
the scheme to the PPF rather than transfer his benefits to a personal pension.
Death Benefits
CC says Mr J wanted to ensure he could pass on whatever was remaining of his pension to 
his family upon his death. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. And Im sure that the idea of leaving a 
large sum to his family in the event of his death sounded attractive to Mr J. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr J might have thought it was 
a good idea to transfer his BSPS benefits because of this, the priority here was to advise 
Mr J about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to 
provide income in retirement. And I dont think CC explored to what extent Mr J was 
prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits with PPF were underplayed. Mr Js wife would have 
received a spouses pension for life, which would have been valuable if Mr J predeceased 
her. Furthermore, Mr J had generous death in service cover if he died before retirement. 
I cant see that any of these benefits were explained to Mr J in a balanced way. So, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal pension justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr J.
Summary
Overall, I dont think the advice given to Mr J was suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, 
risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, he was risking obtaining lower retirement 
benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer
and outweigh this. I dont think his options with regards to his DB scheme were properly
explored.
I appreciate that at the time the advice was given there was a lot of uncertainty around the
pension scheme. And Ive fully taken into account that Mr J was likely keen to transfer out as
he was worried about his pension and his colleagues were telling him this was a good idea. 
However, it was the advisers responsibility to objectively weigh up the options for Mr J. He 
should have advised him what was best for his circumstances and explained what he was 
giving up in the BSPS and that moving to the PPF was not as concerning as he thought. For 
the reasons given above I think this advice should have been to remain in the BSPS.
On balance I think Mr J would have listened to the adviser and followed their advice. 
Mr J was an inexperienced investor and he was concerned about the security of his pension. 
This pension made up a significant part of his retirement provision, and I dont think he 
wouldve wanted to take any unnecessary risk with it. So, if CC had provided him with clear 
advice against transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, 
I think he wouldve accepted that advice. So, I think CC should compensate Mr J for the 
unsuitable advice, using the regulator's DB pension transfer redress methodology. As Mr J 
had lost the opportunity to opt into the BSPS2 by the time CC gave him advice, it is the 
benefits available to him through the PPF that should be used for comparison purposes.
Ive taken into account CCs comments about the fairness of the redress method which 
requires it to carry out a second calculation.
Ive considered this carefully, but I think it would be fair for CC to carry out the second 
calculation and pay to Mr J any additional compensation this calculation produces as a result 
of the buy-out completing. As Ive explained above, Im satisfied that Mr J shouldve been 
advised to allow his pension to move with the scheme to the PPF. And as Mr Js pension 
wouldnt have been in payment at the time the buy-out is completed, I think he may have 
been entitled to an increase in benefits as a result of the buy-out if he had been in the PPF. 
So, it is only fair that Mr Js settlement takes account of this. I dont think this means Mr J is 
getting the best of both worlds, it simply seeks to compensate him for the position he 
shouldve been in but for the unsuitable advice. 
I appreciate that CC says it wouldnt have advised Mr J to transfer out of the BSPS if it knew 
it would be bought out of the PPF. But I dont think that is particularly relevant here. CC 
needed to determine whether transferring out of the BSPS or moving with the scheme to the 
PPF was in Mr Js best interests. And I still think it was clear Mr J wouldve been better off 
moving with the scheme to the PPF, and that transferring out wasnt suitable for him, 
regardless of any future buy-out.Firm As involvement
I understand CC say they only performed a bureau service for Firm A. CC said Firm A had 
already advised Mr J to transfer and they were still heavily involved in the advice process 
throughout.
I cant consider the complaint against Firm A as they have gone into liquidation. But based 
on the information Ive seen it seems likely that Firm A had previously verbally advised Mr J 
to transfer and it continued to be involved in the process. However, notwithstanding Firm As 
involvement, CC had a duty to give Mr J suitable advice and without its advice a transfer 
couldnt have proceeded. CC is responsible for its own actions here.
Nevertheless, if CC had given suitable advice, Mr J would have had a recommendation not 
to transfer from CC, but he still wouldve had the verbal advice to transfer from Firm A. Its 
possible that Firm A might have continued to persuade Mr J to proceed with the transfer. 
However, given that Firm A hadnt been able to proceed with the advice due to issues with 
the regulator, I think on balance Mr J would have listened to CCs advice if its reasons why a 
transfer wasnt in his interest had been explained properly. So in my view it was CCs 
unsuitable advice that ultimately led to Mr J transferring his DB benefits. For this reason, 
I think its fair and reasonable to hold CC fully responsible for any losses this transfer caused 
Mr J. If CC considers that Firm A should also be held liable, CC is free to pursue Firm A 
directly after having compensated Mr J in full.
Putting things right
My aim to is put Mr J, as closely as possible, into the position hed be in now but for CCs
unsuitable advice. I consider he would have stayed in the BSPS and subsequently moved to 
the PPF (which was his only other option at the point CC advised him). So, calculations 
should be undertaken on this assumption.
CC must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance 
as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. For clarity, although 
Mr J thought he would retire early, he is still working now and has no plans to retire or 
access his pension at present. So, compensation should be based on his normal retirement 
age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr J's acceptance of the decision.
CC may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Js 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr J's SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr J's pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr J within 90 days of the date 
CC receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes CC to 
pay Mr J.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
 
Additional compensation
 
In October 2020, due to an improved funding position, the BSPS trustees bought an 
insurance policy as part of the process of the pension scheme exiting its PPF assessment 
and completing a buy-out. Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) will become responsible 
for paying benefits directly to members. The process of the buy-out is currently expected to 
be complete by late summer 2022. 
 
It's been announced that:
 
When the buy-out happens all members whose PPF benefits are less than their full Scheme 
benefits (i.e. the amount they would be if the Scheme were not in a PPF assessment period) 
will see an increase to their benefits. All other members will see no change as a result of the 
buy-out. 
 
For most members, PPF level benefits are less than full Scheme benefits. When the buyout 
happens, these members will see an increase to their current level of benefits so they will 
receive more than PPF levels. All other members will see no change to their current level of 
benefits as a result of the buy-out.
 
The amounts of possible increases are yet unknown. The scheme expects to be able to 
have information on this by late summer 2022.  Mr J would possibly have been entitled to an 
increase in benefits after the buy-out if he had been in the PPF.  So, I think its fair any such 
increases are taken into account when compensating Mr J.
I dont think its reasonable for CC to delay the compensation calculation in its entirety until 
the buy-out is completed. Although it is expected to happen in late summer 2022, Im 
conscious that this could be delayed further due to its complexity. To give some certainty to 
the parties, I think its fair CC calculates and pays Mr J compensation now as set out above 
comparing his existing benefits with the PPF. Once the buy-out is completed and more 
detailed information is available how exactly PPF benefits will increase, CC should do a 
second calculation in line with the latest FCA guidance on DB transfer redress applicable at 
the time. They should base their calculations on the benefits Mr J would have been entitled 
to after the buy-out.
This calculation should be done as soon as possible after the new buy-out benefits are 
known. CC should keep up to date with developments on this matter, for example any 
information published on www.oldbritishsteelpension.co.uk. Equally, if Mr J becomes 
aware further information is available, he should let CC know. If the second calculation results in a higher redress amount than the first calculation, CC must pay Mr J the 
difference. If the second calculation results in the same or a lower redress amount than the 
first calculation, no further action should be taken.
The compensation amount of the second calculation must where possible be paid to Mr J 
within 90 days of the date a public announcement is made that the buy-out has completed. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the announcement to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, 
that it takes CC to pay Mr J.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require County Capital Wealth 
Management Ltd to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
County Capital Wealth Management Ltd to pay Mr J any interest on that amount in full, as 
set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require County 
Capital Wealth Management Ltd to pay Mr J any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
County Capital Wealth Management Ltd pays Mr J the balance. I would additionally
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr J.
If Mr J accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on County Capital Wealth 
Management Ltd. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that
Mr J can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final
decision.
County Capital Wealth Management Ltd should provide details of its calculations to Mr J and 
his representative in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman