DRN-3049225
Complaint
Mr G has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) unfairly continued applying 
charges on his account when hed already explained that he was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Gs complaint and thought that as Mr G had already 
explained that he was experiencing difficulty in August 2019. So it needed to refund all the 
interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Gs account from this point onwards. Santander 
didnt respond. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying charges to an account. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Santander acted unfairly when it 
continued adding interest, fees and charges from August 2019. By this point, Mr G had 
already got in contact to explain that he was experiencing difficulty and struggling to 
manage. So I think that by August 2019 Santander should have treated Mr G with 
forbearance and found out more about his ability to pay rather than adding even more 
interest, fees and charges to his account.
Mr G ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when he was already 
experiencing difficulty. So Im satisfied that Mr G lost out because of what Santander did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what Santander needs to do to put things right for Mr G
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Gs complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Gs current account balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
added to the account from August 2019 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Mr G to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Gs 
credit file, it should backdate this to August 2019.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr G along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Mr Gs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. Santander UK Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman