DRN-4010479
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the delays and poor service provided by The Prudential
Assurance Company Limited when transferring the plan benefits from his Group Personal
Pension to another provider.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint on 28 February 2023. In it, I set out the 
background to this complaint as follows:
Mr C was a member of his employers Group Personal Pension, which was provided by
Prudential. Mr C left his employer on 31 October 2020 and he contacted Prudential on
18 November 2020 to arrange a transfer of his funds.
On 20 January 2021, Mr C complained to Prudential about the delays in transferring his
pension and the financial impact this might have. He also complained about the poor service
he had received.
On 9 March 2021, Prudential wrote to Mr C to confirm he could maintain his plan with
Prudential (and continue or stop making contributions to it) or transfer the plan benefits to
another pension provider. It enclosed transfer forms for Mr C to complete. But Mr C didnt
receive the letter so he chased Prudential for it on 29 March 2021. Another copy of the letter
was sent out on 30 March 2021 but, again, Mr C didnt receive it. He chased Prudential on
23 April 2021. Around this time, Mr C complained to Prudential because he was concerned
the delays would disadvantage him financially.
On 3 June 2021, Prudential issued its final response to Mr Cs complaint. It felt
compensation of £500 for the inconvenience caused by its delays was sufficient. Prudential
said it would calculate whether Mr C experienced a financial loss as a result of the delay and
would compensate Mr C to ensure he would not be disadvantaged financially.
After chasing Prudential again, Mr C received the transfer forms on 21 June 2021. He signed
the forms and on 28 June 2021, Mr Cs new pension provider gave Prudential its paperwork.
The transfer to the new provider went ahead on 2 September 2021.
Mr C then referred his complaint about Prudential to our Service on 9 September 2021, as
he was unhappy it still hadnt calculated whether its delays had caused him a financial loss.
One of our Investigators reviewed Mr Cs complaint and recommended Prudential carry out
a loss assessment as it had offered to do in its final response to Mr Cs complaint and
compensate Mr C accordingly. Our Investigator said Prudential should calculate whether a
loss had occurred from 2 December 2020  two weeks after Mr C first asked about the
transfer on 18 November 2020. Our Investigator thought Prudentials offer of £500 for the
poor service received was fair. Prudential didnt respond to our Investigators opinion, so this
has come to me for a decision.
My provisional decision went on to say why I think this complaint should be upheld and what 
I thought Prudential should do to put things right. Mr C didnt respond, but Prudential did. 
Prudential apologised for not responding sooner, accepted my recommendation that it 
complete a loss assessment and clarified that the £500 offered in its final response had been 
paid to Mr C. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said above, Prudential has accepted my recommendation to complete a loss 
assessment. Mr C hasnt provided any comment on my provisional decision. So, I see no 
reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision, which Ill reiterate below.
Its clear, and not in dispute, that Prudential has caused significant delays since Mr C first
contacted it about transferring his pension in November 2020. In its final response,
Prudential accepted it had a duty to ensure Mr C was not disadvantaged financially by its
delay in transferring his funds to another pension provider and offered to calculate whether
Mr C was worse off, and compensate him accordingly.
The Investigator thought Prudential should calculate redress on the basis of the transfer
having completed on 2 December 2020, two weeks after the initial request to transfer was
made. However, I dont think its likely a pension transfer could have been completed within
two weeks  I think four weeks is more likely, based on our experience and best practice in
the pensions industry, particularly as paperwork was being sent by post. So, I think
Prudential should make the comparison from 16 December 2020.
Putting things right
I agree with Mr C that the service hes received from Prudential has been poor. Its
disappointing that Prudential has still not calculated whether Mr C suffered a financial loss,
as it offered to do in June 2021, over 18 months later. Its also disappointing Prudential didnt
respond to our Investigator, and this has come to me for a decision to ensure Prudential
does what it promised to do in June 2021. However, I can consider only what happened up
until Prudential issued its final response in June 2021, and I cant make any award of
compensation for Mr C for Prudentials actions since then or for its lack of engagement with
our Service. Bearing this in mind, I think Prudentials offer of £500 for its poor service and
delays until its final response of 3 June 2021 compensates Mr C fairly for the time and
inconvenience caused to him up to this point. As Prudential has clarified its offer of £500 has 
been paid to Mr C, I want to be clear I dont think it needs to pay any further compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by its actions.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr C should be put as closely as possible into the position he would
probably now be in if his transfer hadnt been delayed.
Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr C's circumstances 
and objectives when he invested.
What must Prudential do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, Prudential must:
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Prudential should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Prudential should pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Prudential is unable to pay the compensation into Mr C's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr C wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr C would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Prudential deducts income tax from the
interest, it should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. Prudential should give Mr C a tax
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr C asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Value 
transferred 
from 
Prudential to 
the new 
pension planStill exists 
and liquidScottish Widows 
SW Artemis UK 
Smaller 
Companies16 December 
2020my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the new pension at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the new pension would have been worth at the end date had it been invested
in the SW Artemis UK Smaller Companies fund at the earlier date.Any additional sum that Mr C paid into the investment should be added to the fair value
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the portfolio should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if
Prudential totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair
value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because Im persuaded Mr C wouldve invested in
the SW Artemis UK Smaller Companies fund at the earlier date if the delays hadnt
happened.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, The Prudential Assurance Company Limited should put 
things right by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman