DRN-3571294
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint concerns the response of Tesco Personal Finance PLC to his claim made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Where I refer to Mr Ps submissions and 
evidence, I include those made by his wife and by his representatives.    
What happened
In April 2016 Mr and Mrs P were on holiday in Las Vegas. They were invited to attend what 
they were told would be a short presentation. Mr P says however that the presentation lasted 
several hours, at the end of which he and his wife agreed to enter into an agreement to buy 
a timeshare product and membership of an exchange programme. He paid a deposit of 
US$1,567.00 (equivalent at the time to £1,094.58) using his Tesco Bank credit card. The 
balance of the sale price was provided by way of a credit facility provided the seller, 
Westgate Las Vegas Resort, LLC, a Delaware company.
In September 2018 Mr P contacted Tesco Bank to say that he had been misled at the time of 
sale. Because he had paid part of the purchase price using his Tesco Bank credit card, he 
said that he had a claim against it in the same way as he had a claim against the seller. He 
sought a refund of all the sums he had paid in connection with the timeshare  over 
US$12,000.
Tesco Bank said that it did not believe there was sufficient evidence to support a claim, and 
so Mr P referred the matter to this service. He said he had been misled about the following 
matters:
He was told he could use the timeshare property every year, but in fact he can only use 
it every other year. 
Resorts were not exclusive, as he had been promised. 
There was little availability under the exchange scheme, and none in the UK, even 
though he had specifically asked about staying in London.
Accommodation was available online for less than he had paid, so the special deals he 
had been told about were worthless.  
In addition, Mr P says he was not told about his cancellation rights until later. And the seller 
had not provided him with a copy of the Public Offering Statement, which was a requirement 
of Nevada law. By not complying with the law, the seller was in breach of an implied term of 
the contract that it would do so. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened but, like Tesco Bank, was not 
persuaded that there was enough evidence to support Mr Ps claim. Tesco Bank had 
therefore acted reasonably in declining the claim. 
Mr P did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  
one effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a credit provider. Those conditions include:
that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim, either in whole or in part; 
and 
that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the credit provider and the supplier. 
Credit includes the use of a credit card account, and the arrangements under which 
suppliers are able to take credit card payments are, through membership of card schemes 
such as Mastercard and Visa, sufficient to constitute pre-existing arrangements. I am 
satisfied that such arrangements were in place in this case, and so I have considered what 
Mr P has said about the sale. 
The timeshare contract
The timeshare agreement was described as a contract for purchase and sale. Page 1 
recorded that Mr and Mrs P had agreed to buy and Westgate Las Vegas Resort, LLC had 
agreed to sell a timeshare interest in its Las Vegas resort. It recorded too that the purchase 
was subject to the terms and conditions of the contract and the Timeshare Plan, a copy of 
which is included in the Public Offering Statement that each Purchaser receives upon 
execution of a Contract for Sale and Purchase 
As well as setting out the parties and the purchase price, the agreement identified the 
accommodation unit assigned to Mr and Mrs P. The description of it was a series of numbers 
and EVEN. Occupancy was to begin in 2018.   
At the top of page 1, in bold and in a larger font than the rest of the page, was a statement 
which said:
This is a binding contract by which you agree to purchase an interest in a timeshare project. 
You should examine the statement of your right to revoke this contract within 5 days which is 
contained elsewhere in this contract.   
Near the bottom of page 1 was a sub-heading Nevada Disclosure. It included the following 
statement:
The Purchaser of a time share may cancel, by written notice, the contract of sale until 
midnight of the fifth calendar day following the date of execution of this contract   
Mr and Mrs T signed page 1 just below that statement.   
The copy of the second page of the contract that I have been provided with is, unfortunately, 
not legible. I note however that neither Tesco Bank nor Mr P has referred specifically to any 
of its provisions.  
Misrepresentation and breach of contractMr Ps primary case is that he has a claim for misrepresentation against the seller and that 
therefore has a like claim against Tesco Bank under section 75. In English law a 
misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to 
a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
It's likely that the contract here was governed by the laws of Nevada. In the absence of any 
submissions to the contrary, I have approached this complaint on the assumption that 
Nevada recognises claims for misrepresentation in much the same way as English law 
would. 
Mr P says that he was led to believe that he would be able to use the timeshare every year. I 
think however that it was clear from the purchase agreement that he was buying timeshare 
rights that he could use every other year, starting in 2018. 
Mr P says too that he was not told at the time of sale that he could cancel the agreement, 
although he did find that out the following day  and within the cancellation period. I note 
however that the cancellation rights were set out prominently in the agreement. They were 
not exercised. 
The agreement also stated that Mr P had received a copy of the Public Offering Statement, 
contrary to what he now says. If it had been important to him, I think it likely that Mr P would 
have asked at the time why it had not been provided but had been referred to.
The other matters about which Mr P says he was misled are not in my view supported by 
sufficient evidence. There is, for example, little to show what has happened when Mr P has 
tried to book holidays or accommodation. 
I have no doubt that the seller emphasised the benefits of the timeshare. Mr Ps account of 
the sales process is clear and relatively detailed. I am not persuaded however that it is 
sufficient for me to conclude that a claim against the seller would be successful.    
Other matters and conclusion
Mr P has referred in correspondence to UK and European consumer protection legislation. It 
may be that the contract in this case would not comply with some UK regulations. As I have 
indicated, however, the sale agreement is likely to be subject to the laws of Nevada, so I 
make no further comment on that issue. 
It is not for me to say whether Mr P has a valid claim against Westgate Las Vegas Resort, 
LLC or whether, if he does, he could bring that claim against Tesco Bank. What I must do is 
determine Mr Ps complaint about Tesco Bank by reference to what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable. In doing that, I must have regard to any relevant law  which includes the parts 
of the Consumer Credit Act to which I have referred.  
In the circumstances, I think that Tesco Bank was entitled to take the view that a claim 
against the seller was unlikely to succeed and to decline to meet Mr Ps claims under section 
75. My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Tesco Personal Finance PLC to 
take any further steps to resolve Mr Ps complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman