DRN-3187641
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S and Miss S are unhappy that Astrenska Insurance Limited (Astrenska) 
declined their travel insurance claim. 
Mr S is the lead complainant on this complaint. So, for ease, whilst there are two other 
policyholders on the complaint, Ill refer to Mr S throughout this decision. 
Any reference to Astrenska Insurance Limited includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr S booked a holiday in August 2019 with his family. He booked the accommodation 
separate to the flights. Their intended travel dates were from 14 August 2020 to 28 August 
2020. 
On 1 August 2019, he took out an annual travel insurance policy which expired on 31 July 
2020. The policy was renewed, and a further policy started on 1 August 2020 and expired on 
31 July 2021.
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office 
(FCDO)  formerly known as the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)  advised on 27 
July 2020 against all but essential travel to the country Mr S was due to travel to. He 
therefore cancelled the trip. 
Mr S managed to obtain refunds for the flights, car parking and transfers but the deposit hed 
paid for the accommodation was non-refundable. Mr S had paid a 50% deposit and the loss 
he incurred was £1,650. He submitted a claim on travel insurance policy with Astrenska. 
Astrenska declined the claim. It said Mr Ss policy that was renewed had an endorsement 
which stated that it didnt cover any claim arising directly, or indirectly, from any coronavirus 
disease (including but not limited to Covid-19). It did however include claims for emergency 
medical treatment and repatriation due to Covid-19.
Mr S was unhappy with Astrenskas response and brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint. He said hes satisfied that Astrenska applied the 
terms and conditions of the policy fairly and that it took steps to highlight the changes to the 
terms of the policy. He therefore didnt think Astrenska had done anything wrong.
Mr S disagreed with the investigator and asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So, its been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Having looked at the renewal policy documentation Mr S received in 2020, I can see the 
policy schedule stated the following as an endorsement:
This policy does not cover any claim arising directly, or indirectly, from any 
coronavirus disease (including but not limited to Covid-19) or any related or mutated 
form of the virus, except from Section 4, Emergency Medical Expenses and 
Repatriation. This includes the fear or threat of catching coronavirus, and the advice, 
or action, of any government not to travel or preventing travel.
Based on the above, any situation where a trip is cancelled due to Covid-19 and, due to the 
advice of a government not to trave,l is excluded. 
In the email that was sent to Mr S along with the renewal documents, it stated in bold writing:
Your policy provides cover while you are away for coronavirus (Covid-19) 
related claims under the Emergency Medical Expenses and Repatriation 
section only, subject to the standard terms and conditions of the policy. Please 
note, all other claims relating to coronavirus will not be covered. Please see 
your policy schedule for further details. 
If you change your mind, please get in touch. You can cancel your policy and receive 
a full refund, as long as you havent travelled or made a claim. All you need to do is 
contact us within 14 days.
So, based on the above as well as the endorsement on the policy schedule, Im satisfied that 
the exclusion of cover was clearly highlighted to Mr S and that he was informed of the 
change to the policy. It also goes on to explain what is covered in the scenario. 
I appreciate that Mr S says because the trip was booked before the Covid-19 pandemic, he 
believes the claim ought to be covered. But thats not how it works unfortunately. The policy 
was renewed, and the basis of the travel insurance contract changed at this point. As long 
as an insurer has highlighted the changes to that policy and made the policyholder aware of 
those changes clearly, we would consider this to be reasonable. 
Having considered Mr Ss comments hes been treated unfairly by Astrenska, as other 
insurers were covering people in his situation, I dont agree. In the circumstances of this 
complaint, Ive looked at the communication and the policy documents that were sent to 
Mr S at the time of renewal. As well as informing him of the exclusion under the new policy, 
Mr S also had 14 days to cancel the policy in case he changed his mind and wasnt happy 
with the cover. But I cant see that the policy was cancelled within 14 days. I understand that 
other insurers might have provided cover. However, Im looking at whats happened in the 
circumstances of this complaint and the individual merits of this complaint and I dont think 
Astrenska unfairly declined Mr Ss complaint. 
I understand this Mr S will be disappointed but Im satisfied overall that Astrenska did 
enough to make Mr S aware of the changes to the policy when it renewed. I also cant see 
that Mr S was given a reasonable expectation that cover from the policy would continue. 
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that Astrenska declined the cancellation 
claim unfairly. It follows that I dont think it needs to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss and Miss Ss complaint against 
Astrenska Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S, Miss S and 
Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman