DRN-2668840
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wont refund her a payment 
she made on her credit card as a result of a scam. 
What happened
What Mrs J says
Mrs J wished to buy airline tickets to go abroad. She found a travel company online, which 
Ill call A. On 17 May 2019 Mrs J bought plane tickets through A costing £2,200 for her and 
others to travel abroad. At the time she made the payment Mrs J says she wasnt aware that 
her payment went through B, a payment services provider. When she received the tickets, 
Mrs J thought they were fake and so contacted the airline that was meant to provide the 
flights. The airline confirmed the tickets were fake.
Mrs J then contacted A and was told that it hadnt received her payment and so the flights 
werent booked. A asked Mrs J to make the payment again, which she did on 9 July 2019. A 
then told Mrs J it hadnt received the second payment either and asked her to make it again. 
At this point Mrs J became suspicious and contacted B, which refunded the second payment 
of £2,200 on 16 July 2019. But B said the first payment may have gone to a scammer and to 
liaise with the police. Mrs J first contacted Nationwide about the scam on 13 July 2019. 
Mrs J hasnt received a refund of her first payment and would like Nationwide to refund this 
sum. 
What Nationwide says
Nationwide noted Mrs J willingly made the payment and that as the payments were 
facilitated through a payment transfer service it was unable to assist Mrs J under Visa 
chargeback or by reviewing a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75 
CCA). Payments were processed through B rather than directly to the merchant, meaning 
chargeback didnt apply. And section 75 CCA can only be used if a merchant has breached 
a contract or misrepresented goods and services. Nationwide said Mrs J didnt enter in to a 
contract with A and goods and services werent misrepresented. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator did not uphold the complaint. She said Mrs J authorised the credit card 
payment. The payment wasnt unusual or suspicious given Mrs Js previous payment and 
account history and so Nationwide had no reason to question it. The investigator said this 
because the amount involved is relatively small, Mrs J had made a payment for around £500 
shortly before, the amounts people spend on credit cards can fluctuate and the payment was 
well within Mrs Js credit limit.
The investigator also considered whether Nationwide should have helped Mrs J with 
chargeback or a claim under S75 CCA. She said Nationwide acted reasonably in not doing 
so because there was no direct relationship between Mrs J and A. She explained that S75 
CCA requires there to be a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship in place, and as Mrs J paid B 
the chain was broken.  
Mrs J didnt accept the investigators opinion. She said:
- She didnt know she was paying a transfer company and thought she was paying A 
directly. It was only when she checked her bank statement that she saw this wasnt 
the case and this was a sophisticated scam. 
- She thought all credit card payments were secure.
- Nationwide said S75 CCA can only be used when the merchant has breached its 
contract or has misrepresented goods or services. The merchant in this case has 
done both. Mrs J provided e-tickets sent to her by A which she says show she had a 
contract with A.
After reviewing the complaint, I contacted Mrs J and Nationwide to say that I considered 
Nationwide should have raised a chargeback with B, but that I felt that even if it had it was 
likely B would have successfully defended it. I said this after obtaining information from B 
that showed it obtained usual documentation to set up an account in Mrs Js name (her 
name, address, telephone number, email address, date of birth, a selfie and a copy of Mrs 
Js driving license). As Mrs J had no existing relationship with B it had no way of knowing 
that Mrs J hadnt provided this information and that some details werent hers. 
Nationwide accepted the chargeback was unlikely to have been successful. Mrs J 
commented that she hadnt set up an account with B and thought she was protected 
because she paid by card. She felt the emailed flight tickets A sent to her should have been 
used as evidence for chargeback and a S75 CCA claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Im only considering the first 
payment Mrs J made on 17 May 2019 as the second payment was returned by B. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank or building society is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers 
account.
Authorisation
A payment transaction is regarded as having been authorised by the payer only if the payer 
has given his or her consent to the execution of the payment transaction. The regulations go 
on to say that such consent must be given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure 
agreed between the payer and its payment service provider. The form and procedure are 
usually set out in the terms and conditions.
In this case Im satisfied Mrs J authorised the transaction when she gave her card details in 
her telephone call with A. Although I note that Mrs J says that at the time she made it she 
didnt know the payment was being sent to a fraudster. 
Did Nationwide act reasonably when the payment was made?Ive considered whether Nationwide should have taken any action to prevent the fraudulent 
payment from being made but given that the payment was made by credit card and Mrs Js 
normal account and payment history I dont consider it should. 
Whilst the payment in May 2019 was for more than Mrs Js recent transactions, I dont think 
£2,200 is a significant sum to spend on a credit card. In the year before Mrs J had made a 
payment of over £500. And payments on credit cards often fluctuate as customers make 
larger payments when required. 
I also need to bear in mind the purpose of a credit card. Mrs J had applied for over £8,000 of 
credit and her statement following the payment in May 2019 shows the £2,200 payment only 
took her to around £2,200 of her credit limit. In previous months Mrs J used nearly all of her 
credit limit. So I wouldnt expect Nationwide to have flagged Mrs Js payment as unusual or 
suspicious.  
Nationwide was notified of the fraud on 13 July 2019. By this time around two months had 
passed since the fraud and the funds Mrs J had sent by credit card payment had been 
removed from the recipients account. As Mrs J paid using her credit card, I need to consider 
S75 CCA and chargeback.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Section 75 CCA makes the provider of credit (Nationwide in this case) equally liable with the 
supplier where there is a case of misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier of 
goods or services financed by the credit. However, with limited exceptions, it will only apply 
when there is a direct relationship between the debtor (in this case Mrs J), creditor 
(Nationwide) and supplier (A). 
In this case Im not satisfied that a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship exists. Mrs Js 
credit card statement shows the payment was not made directly to A, but to B  which is a 
payment service provider. This breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain. There are some 
limited circumstances when another party may be involved in the transaction process and 
the debtor-creditor-supplier chain is not broken, such as when a merchant acquirer or 
payment aggregator is involved. But this isnt the case here. 
So there is no valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship between the parties and no right for 
Mrs J to make a claim under S75 CCA. Mrs Js payment was to B, and B hasnt breached its 
contract with Mrs J or misrepresented the service it supplies. It seems to me that the 
scammer in this case used Mrs Js details to place a payment through Bs website, without 
her knowledge, as a way to in effect provide protection from S75 CCA claims  knowing that 
doing so broke the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. The fact that Mrs J had no 
knowledge of this has no bearing on whether S75 CCA applies.
There are also some very limited circumstances where payment can be made to one party 
and the goods or services can be supplied by another party and S75 CCA will apply. But this 
is only the case if there is a specific relationship between the party which took payment (B) 
and the party which supplied the goods or services (A)  the parties need to be associates 
as defined by the act. Ive not seen any evidence that A and B are associates as set out in 
the act in this case though. 
Because there is no valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship and A and B are not 
associates as set out in S75 CCA, section 75 doesnt apply. It follows that Nationwide is not 
liable under S75 CCA for any claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier. Mrs J has raised the fact that A supplied her with tickets, but this has no impact on 
the debtor- creditor  supplier relationship Ive discussed. 
Chargeback
Chargeback is a process that allows debit and credit card holders to reverse a transaction 
when theres a problem with the goods or services they have purchased. It is organised and 
run through the overarching card scheme (Visa and Mastercard predominantly) but 
customers wishing to use the service must go through their card issuer (Nationwide in this 
case). The chargeback scheme is voluntary, and banks are not under any formal obligation 
to submit a chargeback claim. But this services view is that it is good practice for a bank to 
make a chargeback claim where the right exists and there is a reasonable prospect of 
success and I think this is particularly so when Mrs J said she was the victim of a scam. So I 
think Nationwide should have made a chargeback claim. 
But given the information I have sought from B I think its unlikely the chargeback would 
have been successful, so I dont think that Mrs J is worse off because Nationwide didnt offer 
a chargeback request. A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund and it was open to B to 
defend it  and in this case I think this is what would have happened. I say this because it 
seems more likely than not that Mrs J didnt make the payment to B herself. I consider that A 
used the details Mrs J provided to book the fake flights and pay for them to set up a new 
profile/account for Mrs J with B and then made a payment to As account. 
When B set the account up for Mrs J it followed its usual procedure and obtained certain 
information about Mrs J like her name, address, telephone number, email address and date 
of birth. B also asked for a selfie and a copy of Mrs Js driving license  copies of which Ive 
been provided with.
Whilst some of the details dont match those Mrs J gave to this service, like the telephone 
number and email address, and the selfie and license may not relate to Mrs J, B would have 
had no way of knowing this at the time. Mrs J had no existing relationship with B, so it had 
no way of checking that the information given to it was genuine. Im persuaded that because 
B took these steps and followed its usual process, it is likely B would have successfully 
defended a chargeback. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry Mrs J has been a victim of a sophisticated scam, I dont consider 
Nationwide acted unreasonably in this case.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman