DRN-3012762
The complaint
Mrs P is complaining Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) automatically renewed 
her car insurance policy. 
What happened
In August 2019 Mrs P took out a car insurance policy through Hastings  a broker. She took 
the policy out through an online comparison website.
In August 2020 Hastings wrote to Mrs P to say it would automatically renew the insurance 
policy unless she asked it not to do so. Mrs P says she didnt receive the letter and she said 
the email it sent went to her spam email address. So she didnt respond and the policy 
renewed. 
In October 2020 Mrs P contacted Hastings to complain it had taken a payment of around 
£224 from her bank account without her consent. She said she didnt consent to the policy 
being renewed and said she specifically asked that Hastings didnt automatically renew the 
policy. She was unhappy that the monthly instalment had increased from around £75 per 
month to £224 per month. She said shed declared one of the insured cars as SORN, so 
didnt need the insurance for it.
She said her and her husband were struggling because of COVID-19 and this matter had 
caused added stress.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint as she was satisfied Hastings had written to 
Mrs P explain the policy would renew. And she didnt think it was unfair for Hastings to use 
automatic renewals. She said she hadnt seen anything to show Mrs P had opted out of the 
automatic renewal process. Finally, she recognised Mrs P had declared her car SORN, but 
she said the insurer still provided cover for fire, theft and vandalism. So she didnt think it 
needed to refund any of the money Mrs P had paid.
Mrs P didnt accept the investigators opinion and raised the following points:
1. She maintains she didnt receive any of the letters Hastings said it sent and disputes 
they were sent and she said the policy documents were sent to her spam email. So she 
says its not her fault she didnt receive them;
2. She thinks, given the high increase in annual premium, Hastings should have called her;
3. She maintained she spoke with Hastings specifically asking that it didnt automatically 
renew the policy;
4. She thinks the significant increase in premium was unfair and contrary to regulatory rules 
and guidance;
5. She maintained the car didnt need insurance because shed declared it SORN. So she 
had no need for the policy to automatically renew.
As Mrs P didnt accept the investigators opinion, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I should first explain that Hastings acted as an insurance broker in this matter  it wasnt the 
insurer. It was responsible for the administration of the insurance policy  namely arranging 
the policys renewal and giving Mrs P adequate notice it would do so. Hastings wasnt 
responsible for the premium charged for the policy or for any decision as to whether to 
refund the premium she paid  that was the responsibility of the insurer. Hastings isnt 
responsible for anything the insurer did and Mrs P will need to raise her concerns with the 
insurer directly if she wants to take these further.
 
Mrs P has raised a number of reasons why she thinks Hastings has treated her unfairly. Ive 
considered everything shes said, but Ive not commented on each and every point shes 
raised. No discourtesy is meant by this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this 
service. Instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points.
The issue for me to decide is whether I think Hastings acted fairly in automatically renewing 
Mrs Ps insurance policy. I think it did.
Its standard industry practice that insurance policies will automatically renew. And its not 
unreasonable that insurers or brokers do so to ensure continuity of cover. The terms of 
Mrs Ps original policy also set out that Hastings would automatically renew the policy unless 
Mrs P specifically asked it not to do so.
Mrs P says she called Hastings to specifically ask it to not automatically renew the policy, 
but I havent seen anything to support this. Ultimately, Ive not seen anything to show that 
she opted out of the automatically renewal process. So I dont think it was unreasonable that 
Hastings carried out the automatic renewal.
However, Hastings was required to give Mrs P advanced notice that it was going to renew 
her insurance policy. Mrs P says she didnt receive anything to show that it would do so. But 
these documents are automatically produced and sent out. Hastings has also provided 
evidence from its internal records that show the documents were sent. So Im satisfied 
Hastings did send the renewal invitation to her giving adequate notice.
I acknowledge Mrs P says she didnt receive the letters and said the emails went to her 
spam folder, so its not her fault the policy renewed. But its not Hastings fault that the emails 
went to her spam folder or that the letters werent received. Its ultimately sent the correct 
notice and renewed the policy accordingly as she didnt reply. Its ultimately acted in a fair 
and reasonable way.
I note Mrs P says Hastings should have called her, given the premium increase. But it wasnt 
required to do so. It was required to give notice of the policys forthcoming renewal and it did 
so. 
Shes also unhappy that it sent the correspondence by post, which she says was an 
unreasonable communication method, given the challenges caused by the global pandemic. 
But I understand Mrs P opted to have post as her preferred method of communication when 
she first took out the insurance policy. So it was fair for Hastings to contact her in this way.I appreciate Mrs P feels strongly about whats happened. But, for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I havent seen anything to show it treated her unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman