DRN-1659304
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs M complain that The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Platform) undervalued 
their property.
For simplicity, I will refer solely to Mr R as the complainant in this decision.
What happened
Mr R approached Platform to apply for a new mortgage product in February 2019. During the 
application, Platform arranged for a revaluation to be carried out by E-Surv chartered 
surveyors. But Mr R was unhappy because the valuation came in at a lower figure than he 
originally anticipated. 
Platform said they would not be able to underwrite a new mortgage product as a result of the 
valuation. Mr R appealed the decision and provided further information to be taken into 
account, such as comparable house values and details of further work undertaken on the 
property. Platform say they passed the appeal onto E-Surv, but said that the surveyors did 
not uphold the appeal and stood by the original valuation.
Mr R complained that the valuation was not accurate, and was also unhappy with the 
delays and service he had experienced during the appeals process.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Rs complaint. He didnt think Platform had acted unfairly 
by relying on the valuation provided by their appointed surveyors given that they were 
appropriately qualified. And he didnt think they could fairly be held responsible for the delays 
in the appeals process. Mr R disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it.
I ought to make it clear from the outset that it isnt within the remit of this service to look into 
the accuracy of a valuation or the competence of the associated surveyor, as their actions 
fall outside of our jurisdiction. But I can consider whether Platform acted reasonably in 
relying on the valuation when deciding not to underwrite the mortgage product Mr R had 
applied for.
I can see that the initial valuation was carried out by an independent surveyor that was 
qualified through the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). I can also see that the 
surveyor has declared:
I certify that the property offered as security has been inspected by me and that the above 
valuation is a fair indication of the current market valuation for mortgage purposes.
The declaration also states that the inspection has been carried out in accordance with the 
current RICS guidelines. I appreciate that Mr R disputes the accuracy and validity of the valuation carried out by E-Surv. But the valuation was reconsidered by the surveyors in light 
of the further information Mr R had provided, and they determined that it didnt change their 
original valuation. And given that the surveyors were appropriately qualified to make such a 
determination, I dont think Platform had any reason to doubt their assessment. 
A lender is as entitled to rely on the opinion of their appointed experts, so long as it is not 
unreasonable for them to do so (which would be the case if, for example, a valuation is 
patently wrong such that even an unqualified person would recognise it as so). In the 
circumstances, Im not persuaded that the valuation is patently wrong, so it follows that I do 
not think Platform have acted unfairly by relying on it. 
Mr R is also unhappy with the way the appeals process was handled and the time it took. 
But Platform passed the appeal over to the surveyors to consider, and say that the response 
time was out of their hands. Given that E-Surv are independent of Platform, and are not 
purporting to act on behalf of the lender, I cannot hold Platform responsible for any acts or 
omissions of the surveyors. And having reviewed Platforms handling of the matter  
focussing solely on the elements of service they are responsible for  I dont think there was 
anything that was significantly poor about the way matters were handled, so Im not 
persuaded that any compensation is warranted.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman