DRN-2184705
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc allowed an account to be opened jointly in his name, 
that he says he didnt apply for.
What happened
Mr H holds a sole account with Santander. He met someone I shall refer to as Mr S, and was 
invited to go in to business with him.
Unknown to Mr H, Mr S had taken copies of his driving licence and used this to open a joint 
account with Santander online in April 2017. Mr H received a debit card for the account, 
which is when he became aware of the account. Mr S then asked Mr H to use the card to 
carry out withdrawals. This went on through May 2017, and the account was closed in June 
2017.
Mr H contacted Santander in 2019 to explain what happened, and say he had no role in the 
account application. He said Mr S had tried to open other accounts in his name, and hed 
had to change his name by deed poll to stop it happening. He believed that Mr S wouldve 
been able to see his sole account details. He felt Santander shouldve carried out more 
checks before opening the account.
Santander looked in to things, but didnt feel theyd done anything wrong. They suggested 
Mr H contact the fraud prevention service CIFAS to help protect his identity in future.
Unhappy with this response Mr H brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked in to it, but didnt ask Santander to do anything different. They felt 
that even if Mr H hadnt been aware of the application, he had gone on to use the account, 
so had been aware of it. They couldnt see that Mr H had lost any of his own money from this 
account. So, they felt Santander had been reasonable. Mr H disagreed.
Because no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not asking Santander to do anything further, and Ill explain why.
Ive considered whether Mr H was aware of the account being opened. Santander have 
provided the information they received at the account opening, which did include Mr Hs 
legitimate ID details. Because these matched what the bank already held from Mr Hs sole 
account, they didnt question this any further  it matched the identification information they 
already held for Mr H so wouldnt have a reason to question it any further. And Mr Hs sole 
account had been well run, and there doesnt seem to have been any reason for Santander 
to have concerns about Mr H. 
The application also didnt include an overdraft  so it was unlikely the account opening 
would lead to Mr H being held responsible for debts he didnt create. So, in the 
circumstances the checks carried out during account opening seem reasonable.
Based on what Mr H has told us, he was expecting to work with Mr S but didnt agree to go 
through a joint account application. But from Standers records welcome letters and emails 
were sent to him after the account as opened. 
But Mr H has also told us he received the debit card in his name. If he hadnt agreed to open 
the account, I think receiving the card would give him cause for concern, and Id expect him 
to speak to Santander at the time. But theres no record that he did until almost two years 
later.
The records from Santander show that the PIN for the card was changed after it was 
received, which again doesnt seem like something that Mr H would do if he hadnt agreed to 
be party to the account. 
In any case Mr H has accepted he went on to make withdrawals from the account using his 
debit card. Again, this doesnt seem like the actions of someone who wasnt expecting to be 
party to the account.
Overall, Im satisfied that its more likely than not Mr H was aware of the account application. 
But even if he wasnt I cant see that Mr H has suffered any detriment from this account 
being opened. Looking at the transactions it seems the money paid in to the account all 
came from external sources and was withdrawn. The account always held a positive 
balance, so Santander havent held Mr H liable for any debts created or charged any fees for 
the account. Nor can I see that Mr H lost any of his own money in the period the account 
was open.
Ive also not seen any evidence that Mr S would have been able to view Mr Hs sole account 
using internet banking. Generally, each party to an account can only see the accounts which 
are in their own name, and theres nothing to suggest this isnt the case here.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr H has had because of his association with Mr S, and 
the steps hes had to take to protect himself since. But in this case, I cant see that 
Santander have treated him unfairly on unreasonably. On that basis Im not asking them to 
do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman