DRN-4242631
The complaint
Mr and Ms M complain that British Gas Insurance Limited repeatedly failed to accurately 
diagnosis a problem with their boiler under their HomeCare policy. 
What happened
Mr and Ms M hold a HomeCare policy with British Gas for their rental property.
In June 2022, Mr and Ms M contacted British Gas regarding a knocking noise that 
they say was happening intermittently from either the boiler or the pipes. 
An engineer attended on 15 June 2022. The notes from this visit confirm that the 
boiler was working on arrival and the noise couldnt be heard. As such, no fix was 
implemented.
As no repair had been carried out, Mr and Ms M didnt pay the policy excess. They 
were subsequently contacted by a debt collector who only ceased chasing them after 
they raised a complaint to British Gas.
A further visit took place on 2 August 2022 as the knocking noise continued. But 
again, the noise couldnt be heard by the engineer when they attended. The notes 
indicate that the engineer strapped the pipes next to the boiler as this was suspected 
to be causing the problem.
This didnt resolve things, so on 31 August 2022 British Gas sent an independent 
expert. But as they couldnt replicate the noise, they also couldnt determine what the 
problem was, and a fix couldnt be carried out. Mr Z says the engineer became 
aggressive and threatening.
An independent expert attended again on 9 September 2022 and this time they were 
able to determine that there was a problem with the boiler. This was reported back to 
British Gas.
As a diagnosis had been made, British Gas arranged for its engineer to return on 10 
October 2022 and a repair was carried out. This appears to have resolved the 
problem.
Mr and Ms M logged a complaint. They say:
- the repeated misdiagnosis of the problem has impacted the life of the boiler and 
its efficiency. 
- there were delays in handling the claim.
- the independent expert was aggressive and threatening in his behaviour when 
attending on 2 August 2022, which was reported to the police.
British Gas acknowledge that a repair wasnt implemented quickly enough after a 
diagnosis had been made. It offered £200 compensation to put things right, and 
waivered the policy excess of £60.
In regard to the experts behaviour, British Gas said an internal process was being 
followed and that the experts recollection of what had happened was that he was 
advising Mr M when Mr M started to record him on video and accuse him of 
swearing. British Gas say it will cooperate with any police investigation should they 
be in touch.  
Mr and Ms M werent satisfied that this went far enough to rectify things, so they 
brought their complaint to our service. But our Investigator thought British Gas had 
done enough to put things right.
As Mr and Ms M dont agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Ms M are covered by their HomeCare policy for repairs to their boiler. But 
when attending the property in June and August 2022, the boiler was found to be 
working and there was no knocking sound to be heard. As such, I cant fairly say that 
British Gas shouldve done more on these visits to repair the boiler as there wasnt 
anything to repair. 
I appreciate Mr and Ms M say there was a repeated misdiagnosis, but I dont agree. 
There was no diagnosis at all. And this was because British Gas couldnt hear the 
knocking or replicate it, so its not unreasonable that its engineers werent able to 
establish the problem. Im aware the engineers were given videos and audios of the 
noise, but they said theyd need to hear the noise for themselves. This is 
understandable given that its hard to determine where a noise is coming from when 
its on a recording, rather than live and in the engineers presence.
For this reason, Im not persuaded that there was any avoidable delay between 15 
June 2022 and 9 September 2022. Nor was there a misdiagnosis. 
A diagnosis was made in September, at which time British Gas were able to arrange 
a repair. But this didnt take place until a month later. I agree there was a delay from 
this time until the repair was carried out, which Mr and Ms M should be compensated 
for. 
When determining the level of compensation appropriate for whats gone wrong, our 
service will look at the impact this had. Mr and Ms M say the delays have impacted 
the life and efficiency of the boiler, but they havent provided any expert evidence to 
demonstrate this is the case. Im aware they spoke to the manufacturers customer 
service department who said that in general terms, the boiler may be impacted. But 
they havent come out to see the boiler or provide any expert opinion to say that it 
has been impacted and specifically, how. Without evidence that the boiler has been 
affected and why, I cant fairly make a finding that it has been. 
From the information Ive seen, the impact to Mr and Ms M is limited to the distress and inconvenience they were caused during the delays I consider to be avoidable  
which is between 9 September 2022 and 10 October 2022. 
I havent been provided with any video footage which shows me that the expert 
behaved inappropriately. Mr M has provided a few seconds of footage which shows 
the expert leaving where he is looking at his phone and Mr M is calling after him. I 
also havent been provided with any police report as Mr M says the police told him to 
contact British Gas. Whilst I have both Mr M and the experts recollections of what 
happened, I wasnt there and I have no evidence to rely on other than one persons 
word against the other, so I cant say with any certainty what actually happened.
Based on the evidence I do have, Im satisfied that the redress offered by British Gas 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. As the compensation of 
£200 has already been paid and the policy excess waived, Im not asking it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman