DRN-2641329
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc stopped a payment from going through, when she 
had already told it the payment would be happening. 
What happened
Ms B has explained that she was due to travel abroad, in order to have a surgical procedure. 
Ms B needed to pay for the procedure whilst she was out of the country. So, shes explained 
she went into her local branch of HSBC, to let it know she was going to be travelling, and a 
large sum would be leaving her account whilst she was away. 
Following this, Ms B went abroad. Ms B has said she contacted HSBC around three hours 
before her procedure was due to take place, to remind it she would be making the payment 
shortly. Just before the surgery was due to take place, Ms B then attempted to make the 
payment she needed to. But this was declined.
Because of this, Ms B said she contacted HSBC, and was told that it should be fine for her to 
make the payment again, and this should go through. But, when Ms B tried this, the payment 
was still declined. Ms B noted she called HSBC for a third time that day and was told the 
payment had been picked up by the banks fraud detection system, but if she waited five 
minutes and tried again  the payment would go through. This also failed.
After a fourth call, Ms B said she was able to make the payment via telephone banking. But, 
it had taken 45 minutes from the time she first tried to make the payment, until this was 
finally successful.
Ms B felt this was unfair. She said that the delay in her being able to make payment meant 
her surgery started later than it should have  and that the surgeon had less time to 
complete the procedure. Ms B felt this meant the surgeon didnt have sufficient time to carry 
out the procedure  and if the surgeon had additional time, she was likely to have been 
happier with the results of the operation. 
Ms B also explained the stress and upset that the time taken to make the payment caused to 
her. She said that at the time of trying to pay she was ready to go to theatre, and the failure 
to be able to carry out the payment, when she had pre-warned HSBC of it, was distressing, 
as she was aware of time pressures. 
Because Ms B was unhappy, she complained to HSBC. HSBC responded to this complaint. 
It said it wasnt its intention to prevent genuine payments its customers were attempting to 
make. But it had fraud detections systems in place, which take into account a number of 
factors  such as type of transaction and country for the safety of its customers. And the 
transaction Ms B had made been caught by this system. HSBC said this was the right thing 
to have happened. And therefore, it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
However, it offered Ms B an amount of £200 in genuine conciliatory spirit. Ms B didnt 
consider this amount to be enough  and felt an amount of £1,000 would be more 
reasonable.
Because Ms B remained dissatisfied, she referred her complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and thought HSBCs offer of £200 was 
reasonable considering the delay and inconvenience caused to Ms B. She said that whilst 
HSBC may have been told about a large transaction to be leaving the account, HSBC had 
still done the right thing in stopping the payment initially. Our investigator said HSBCs fraud 
detection system was in place to protect its customers. And payments which flagged with 
this system would be declined, regardless of whether the bank knew Ms B was going to be 
making a payment or not. And this was what happened here. She said that HSBC were able 
to carry out the transaction to allow Ms B to have the surgery during the day, and therefore 
she was satisfied it had done what it needed to. 
Ms B didnt agree. She said that she didnt think £200 was sufficient to compensate her for 
the situation shed experienced.
As Ms B didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I sent a provisional decision this complaint to both parties. In this I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied the offer of £200 compensation HSBC has made to Ms B is 
fair. And given this, I dont intend on uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Initial payment attempt
When deciding this complaint, Ive needed to consider whether HSBC acted fairly in stopping 
the payment Ms B tried to make for her surgery, when the transaction was first put through. 
I can understand why Ms B feels the payment she was making before her surgery should 
have been allowed to go through straight away. Ms B has explained she had done what she 
could to make sure the transaction went through smoothly  by informing HSBC that the 
payment would be happening. And I can see how Ms B wouldnt want any further stress 
present when she was due to undergo surgery. However, I dont think HSBC did anything 
wrong by stopping the payment initially.
The terms and conditions of Ms Bs account do say that HSBC can stop a transaction from 
completing, if it has security concerns about the payment to be made. And HSBC has said in 
this case, it did have security concerns. It was worried the payment wasnt genuine  and 
therefore wanted to protect Ms Bs interest by stopping the payment from going through.
Ive thought about whether HSBCs action to stop the payment at first, was reasonable in this 
particular case, given its concerns. And I think it was. HSBC has said its automatic system 
looks at a number of different risk factors, and if a payment scores highly, this will stop it 
going through, regardless of whether it has already been informed of a payment that will be 
made.
HSBC has provided this service with a screen shot, showing that the payment flagged on its 
system. And that this payment was later released, once it was satisfied the transaction was 
safe. Given the circumstances of the transaction, this doesnt appear to be unfair. I know 
Ms B said she had already let it know the details of the payment to be made. But I think 
HSBC acted as it would have with any other account, in a similar situation. And once it was 
satisfied the payment was genuine and could be safely made, it allowed this to go through.As I think HSBC acted fairly in stopping the transaction initially, I dont intend on requiring it 
to do anything more in this respect.
Calls to HSBC
Ms B has also raised concerns with the amount of times she needed to call HSBC on the 
day of her surgery. She has said that despite her calls, the payment continued to be 
declined, until the last time she spoke to someone  which by that point was the fourth 
phone call she had made. Ms B has highlighted how distressing this was, as the surgical 
team were ready and awaiting the payment, before they could start her procedure. And, 
rather than the procedure starting at the planned time, it started 45 minutes later, and the 
length of the surgery was cut short.
I asked HSBC for a copy of its contact notes for the calls Ms B made in relation to the 
payment. But HSBC has said it has no record of these calls. And it has provided me with 
screen shots to show the absence of any calls on its systems. HSBC has said it could be 
that because of the length of time that has passed since the conversations, it just didnt have 
evidence of these any longer.
Given Ms Bs detailed explanation of the calls, and what happened during this, I do think its 
likely Ms M made a number of calls, and its clear the problem didnt get resolved until 
someone suggested she use the telephone banking facility available. 
                    
I recognise that the need to keep calling HSBC back at this already stressful time would 
have added to the trouble and upset Ms B was experiencing, before a procedure she was 
already anxious about. 
HSBC has already offered Ms B an amount of £200 for any inconvenience caused to her. 
So, Ive needed to consider whether this amount is reasonable, to reflect the upset she 
experienced in this case. And, whilst I understand Ms B doesnt feel £200 is a fair figure  I 
think it is. Ms B had 45 minutes of inconvenience and upset, before going down to surgery, 
which undoubtedly would have been upsetting. But I think £200 fairly recognises the upset 
Ms B experienced during that set time period.
Ms B has said that the delay in her being able to make the payment meant that her slot for 
surgery wasnt as long as it should have been. And because the surgery was shorter than 
intended, the results of it werent as good as they would have been, without the delay. But I 
dont think its reasonable to hold HSBC responsible for the surgical teams decisions  for 
example if it went ahead with a procedure without having sufficient time to do it. So, Im 
satisfied HSBC doesnt need to compensate Ms B for this element of her concerns.
HSBC responded to my provisional decision and noted it didnt have anything further to add. 
Ms B didnt respond, to provide any further comments or evidence for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As above, neither party has provided me with any further evidence or comments to review. 
Given this, and the information Ive already considered from both parties, my decision 
remains the same as noted in my provisional decisions above, and for the same reasons.
 
My final decisionGiven the above, my provisional decision is that the £200 compensation offered by HSBC 
UK Bank Plc is fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman