DRN-4337556
The complaint
Mr D complains about how his insurer, Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas), handled a claim 
under his motor insurance policy for the theft of his scooter. 
Any reference to Ageas in this decision includes their agents. 
What happened
Mr D had a motor insurance policy with Ageas covering his scooter, taken out in June 2022. 
In March 2023 Mr Ds scooter was stolen from outside a property he owned, but at the time 
wasnt residing there. He was residing at his parents property, where hed resided on and off 
for many years. The scooter was insured at his parents address, as he resided there on his 
non-working days to care for his father, who was in ill-health. Mr D worked shifts, involving 
four days on shift followed by four days off. 
Mr D contacted Ageas to tell them about the theft, which was captured on CCTV. He also 
reported the theft to the police, who provided a rime reference number. The scooter was 
found abandoned, near to where it was stolen, but damaged. From Ageass claim notes, it 
appears the scooter was stolen a second time a few days after the original theft. The scooter 
was recovered.
Ageas set out to validate the claim, given the difference in the address recorded in the policy 
and the address from which the theft occurred (the vehicle registration document had the 
address of Mr Ds property). However, from database checks, Ageas werent able to link Mr 
D to the address disclosed on the policy, so they asked him to provide evidence linking him 
to the address. Ageas didnt accept a utility bill from Mr D, which was in his fathers name.
As they didnt think Mr D had provided the evidence theyd requested, they were unable to 
validate the claim, Ageas then cancelled the policy. In their cancellation letter, Ageas said 
they hadnt received any acceptable proof of Mr D being resident at the property recorded in 
the policy. Ageas added the evidence indicated the scooter was stolen from the address of 
the other property (which he owned) and was parked in a communal car park. The letter 
gave seven days notice of cancellation, taking effect from the start of May 2023. Ageas 
subsequently said they would return the scooter to Mr D.
Unhappy at Ageass decision to cancel the policy, Mr D complained. Ageas didnt uphold the 
complaint. In their final response, they set out their efforts to validate the claim, including 
validation of the address disclosed in the policy. As they werent able to do so to their 
satisfaction, Ageas confirmed their decision to cancel the policy.
Mr D then complained to this Service. He was unhappy at Ageass handling of his claim. 
Hed incurred taxi costs in getting to and from work, which were significant, and he was 
contemplating a loan to purchase a replacement vehicle. He wanted Ageas to review their 
decision not to accept his claim and to cancel his policy. Having his claim declined and 
policy cancelled also meant hed have to disclose the fact, which would affect the cost of 
future insurance.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. While she accepted Mr D was staying at his 
parents house due to caring responsibilities, he didnt make Ageas aware of this. The policy 
Statement of Fact asked Mr D to confirm the scooter was kept at the address on the policy or 
kept anywhere else. Mr D said it wasnt, and as the scooter was stolen from a different 
address to that recorded in the policy, it was material to the claim and the information hed 
provided was incomplete. So, Ageas had acted fairly in cancelling the policy when they 
werent able to link Mr D to the address recorded by the policy (his parents house).
Mr D disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said proof of residence at the insured address (his parents) wasnt required by 
the policy and Ageas had no evidence he wasnt staying there. His parents address was the 
location where the scooter was insured and spent most of its time there (and where the 
scooter remained). He also asked what would have happened had the scooter been stolen 
from a different location to either his parents address or his property address. There was 
clear evidence of the theft from CCTV footage and the police crime number.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Ageas has acted fairly towards Mr D.
The key issue in Mr Ds complaint is their decision to cancel the policy and decline his claim 
for the theft of his scooter. Mr D says his circumstances meant he resided with his parents 
on his non-working days to care for his ill father. And that hed resided there on and off for 
many years. Ageas say their validation checks couldnt link Mr D to the address hed 
provided when taking out the policy.
In considering this issue, Ive first noted the policy documents record the address as that of 
his parents, not the property owned by Mr D (from which the theft occurred). The associated 
Statement of Fact document issued at the time the policy was taken out also records the 
address as that of Mr Ds parents. Theres a question underneath the address record that 
asks: Is the bike kept at the above address when not in use. To which the answer is yes.
Looking at the policy document, included in the Policy conditions that apply to all of this 
policy theres the following statement:
13 During the period of your policy you must tell us about any changes which may 
affect your cover. If you fail to do so, your policy may not be valid and we may not 
pay your claim. For example:
You move house or change the place you keep your motorcycle,
Ive not seen anything to indicate Mr D told Ageas he was spending time at his parents 
address as well as his own address. The latter is where the scooter was registered and from 
where it was stolen. So, its reasonable to conclude that is Mr Ds permanent residence -not 
his parents, where he stayed for periods to provide care for his father on an ad hoc basis 
between his work shifts.
Ive also noted that the policy was taken out on the basis of information provided by Mr D, 
including the address of his parents. While I accept Mr D stayed there to provide care for his 
father, I dont think its reasonable to say he resided there. From the circumstances of the 
case he spent time at both his parents and at his own property (to which the scooter was 
registered). And the scooter was stolen from outside his property  not his parents.  And in providing his parents address ad the address for his policy, Ageas would have priced 
the policy on the basis of that address  not Mr Ds own property. 
Ive also considered the points made by Mr D when disagreeing with the investigators view.
 
First, he says proof of residence at the insured address (his parents) wasnt required by the 
policy and Ageas had no evidence he wasnt staying there. I dont agree. When taking out a 
policy, consumers are under a duty to provide accurate and complete information, which 
would include the address. And the onus is on consumers to provide evidence to support the 
information (and answers) given when they took out the policy, when asked to do so by 
insurers. Which would include an insurer seeking to validate a claim. Which is summarised 
in the Statement of Fact document. It isnt for insurers to provide evidence to disprove a 
negative  in this case, that Mr D wasnt staying there. And staying there isnt the same as 
residency, as Ive considered above.
On Mr Ds point about what would have happened had the scooter been stolen from a 
different location to either his parents address or his property, I dont think this would have 
changed what Ageas did or their conclusions. They would have sought to validate the 
address recorded in the policy, regardless of where the theft occurred, and theres no 
evidence they would have reached a different conclusion that they werent able to validate 
the address.
On the point about the scooter being stolen and there was CCTV evidence of the theft and a 
police crime number, its not disputed the scooter was stolen and subsequently recovered. 
Ageas didnt cancel the policy on the grounds they doubted the scooter had been stolen  
they cancelled it because they werent able to verify the address Mr D had given and which 
was recorded in the policy.
Taking these points together, Ive concluded Ageas acted fairly and reasonably in cancelling 
Mr Ds policy and declining his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman