DRN-1219679
The complaint
Mr Z has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a credit card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr Z took out the credit card in 1997. Lloyds doesnt have a record of exactly when the PPI 
was taken out, so its assumed that it was bought at the same time as the cards were 
arranged. The earliest statement available is from January 2000 and that has PPI on it. So 
we know that the policy was taken out at some point between 1997 and January 2000.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr Z disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Zs complaint and Ill explain why.
Lloyds hasnt been able to provide the original sales documents, which isnt surprising given 
how long ago the PPI was taken out. But it does make the case more difficult to decide. In 
reaching my decision I have therefore looked at the evidence that we do have and what I 
think is most likely to have happened.
Although Lloyds doesnt have the actual application form, its given us a sample of the type 
of application forms it says would have been in use at the time. These forms required 
someone to tick separately if they wanted PPI.
Mr Z says he took the PPI out during a branch meeting and that he wasnt given a choice 
about buying the policy. However, the sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be 
surprising if Mr Zs recollection of events has faded.
From what we know of Lloyds sales processes at the time, and looking at the sample form, I 
think Lloyds probably made the optional nature of the policy clear. Overall I think its most 
likely that Mr Z decided to take out the PPI, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no 
longer remembers doing so.
Lloyds says that it advised Mr Z to buy the PPI, so it needed to ensure that it met his needs. 
From what I know of Mr Zs circumstances at the time, I think the policy was suitable.
Mr Z was self-employed. But the policy made it no more difficult for a self-employed person 
to made a successful claim than an employed person. Mr Z wouldnt have received any sick 
pay if he was unable to work and he didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall 
back on. So I think Mr Z had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it.Its possible Lloyds could have provided clearer information about the policy, particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr Z wasnt affected by any of those things. On 
balance, as I think that Mr Z had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont think 
more information would have caused him to change his mind. So Mr Z isnt any worse off as 
a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong, so there is nothing that Lloyds needs to 
do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Zs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman