DRN-2403063
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs S complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has 
unfairly refused to meet their claim for storm damage to their home.
What happened
This is a brief summary of the complaint. 
Mr B and Mrs S found their roof was leaking after a storm in early 2020. They contacted LV, 
which said it would consider their claim.
After receiving a report from a surveyor, LV said it wouldnt meet Mr B and Mrs Ss claim, as 
it believed the damage wasnt solely caused by a storm, but rather that the storm had 
highlighted already existing damage..
Mr B and Mrs S didnt think that was fair, and complained, pointing out that their own builder 
thought the damage was storm damage. LV didnt change its stance, so Mr B and Mrs S 
brought their complaint to us for review.
Our investigator thought LV had acted fairly when it said it wouldnt meet the claim.
Mr B and Mrs S remain unhappy about this, so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has asked that I speak with him directly to hear his thoughts on why LV should meet 
the claim in full. I dont think I need to do that, as Im satisfied I can reach a fair decision from 
the paperwork Ive seen. I say that because the evidence provided by both parties  mainly 
photos showing the extent of the damage to the roof  is very similar. Weve given both 
parties time to send us any additional evidence or comments either might have.
when I look at a complaint about storm damage, I ask three questions: was there a storm at 
the time, is the damage typically that caused by a storm and was this particular damage 
most likely caused by the storm in question.
In order for a claim for storm damage to succeed, Mr B and Mrs S must show that the 
damage was caused by a particular event  in this case a named storm. For LV to say it 
need not meet the claim, it has to show that it can fairly apply an exclusion  in this case that 
the mortar and lead flashing had most likely deteriorated over time, rather than being 
damaged only by this storm.  
Both parties agree there was a storm immediately before Mr B and Mrs S made their claim, 
so Im satisfied LV was right to consider the claim for the roof under storm damage.
The sort of damage reported  mainly damaged mortar and lead flashing  could be caused 
by a storm.
That leaves the third question, often the most contentious of the three.
LV sent a surveyor to look at the damage to the roof. Based on the report it received it said 
there were signs of gradual deterioration, which it thought meant the damage caused wasnt 
solely because of the storm  instead it highlighted pre-existing damage.
It is normally considered fair for an insurer to rely on the report it receives from its specialist, 
unless a customer can provide some persuasive evidence for to show the report is wrong. 
Mr B and Mrs S have sent us a statement from their builder who says the damage was 
caused by a storm.
Mr B and Mrs S say I should give more weight to the report from their builder as he climbed 
onto the roof rather than simply taking photos. Im not persuaded by that argument, as I dont 
think the way the information is collected is key  rather its the clarity of that information. But 
I have looked at both sets of photos  and they show similar damage. I dont think the 
information from the builder is different enough to influence my decision. 
Ive thought carefully about whats been said by both the builder and the surveyor. Overall, I 
dont think theres enough evidence in the builders comments for me to say it should 
outweigh the report LV obtained. The builder says there is storm damage. He doesnt 
comment on when that might have occurred, or on the state of the roof generally. I also think 
the photos from both the surveyor and the builder show the sort of damage described by the 
surveyor, and is typical of damage that builds gradually. LV say out that mortar and flashing 
in good condition wouldnt normally be damaged by a storm without more extensive damage 
to the tiles etc. The photos dont show this sort of damage, and I think that is a reasonable 
point. Mr B and Mrs S have said they havent had any work done on their roof for about five 
years. Although the roof might have been sound then it is possible the damage  mostly to 
old mortar  could have built up since then. 
Taking everything into account Im not persuaded I should uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman