DRN-2730909
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC when he 
enquired about in an increase to his overdraft facility.
 
What happened
Mr F holds a joint account with Mrs S at Barclays. The account has an existing overdraft 
facility.
Mr F contacted Barclays in April 2020 to discuss an extension to the overdraft as he was 
struggling financially because of Covid-19 pandemic. But he says Barclays wasnt supportive 
given the circumstances. 
He says that had problems contacting Barclays in the first instance. But when he did speak 
with Barclays  via video call, it insisted on him providing documentation about his financial 
situation despite Barclays holding his account. He added that Barclays wanted him to visit a 
branch with this information. But Mr F says that wasnt possible as he was shielding as he 
was classed as a vulnerable person due to the pandemic. So, he complained to Barclays. 
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. It said additional information was required as it couldnt 
agree to extend the overdraft further based on the information it already held. Unhappy with 
Barclays response, Mr F referred the complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into it. But she didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think 
Barclays had acted incorrectly when considering Mr Fs enquiry about further borrowing. She 
acknowledged that Mr F had had some difficulties in contacting Barclays to make his request 
in the first instance. But she didnt think this was unreasonable given how businesses had 
had to adapt due to the covid-19 pandemic and the impact this had had on service levels. 
Mr F didnt accept this outcome. He felt he hadnt been treated fairly and that Barclays was 
wrong putting regulations and red tape ahead of the wider unprecedented circumstances at 
the time. So, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to broadly the same overall conclusions as our investigator. I 
know Mr F will be disappointed with my decision as he feels Barclays should have done 
more to help him. So, Ill explain why.
I think the starting point here is to explain that its generally for the lender to decide whether 
it wants to provide or extend borrowing facilities to a customer. This decision making is not 
something this service generally interferes with. 
But here Barclays didnt decline Mr Fs overdraft request. Rather, Mr F is unhappy that 
Barclays needed him to provide documentary evidence about his financial situation to 
support his request. And that he was told he had to provide the information in person when 
he was following government guidance to shield as a result of the pandemic. And we can 
look into whether Barclays treated Mr F fairly by following its procedures and any regulations 
or guidelines correctly.
The current regulations when considering a lending application say that lenders are required 
to do sufficient checks to determine that the lending is affordable and sustainable. The 
regulations dont say what exact checks need to be done  thats for the lender decide. But 
the type of checks needed are generally based on: the level of the borrowing required, the 
type of borrowing, the financial circumstances of the customer and anything else the lender 
knows or finds out about the consumers particular situation.
In this case Barclays has told us that it held a video call with Mr F in order to discuss his 
overdraft increase. It says that its initial findings indicated that Mr F needed to provide 
evidence to support his application and generally this would be provided in branch. But it 
says that Mr F ended the video call before other options could be considered. 
I know Mr F feels that Barclays put regulations ahead of the wider unprecedented 
circumstances at the time. And that he feels Barclays had a responsibility to support him as 
he was struggling due to the pandemic. And I sympathise with the circumstances Mr F found 
himself in, so Ive thought carefully about this.
I agree that that a lender should treat a consumer who is suffering financial difficulties, 
positively and sympathetically. But I think this means supporting a customer to repay existing 
borrowing. I dont agree it means Barclays was required to provide more lending without 
doing the appropriate checks to ensure that lending was affordable. 
 
Here, Mr F has told us that he was struggling financially to provide for his household due to 
the pandemic. And this is consistent with what Barclays has said about the information it 
already held about Mr F having looked at the activity on his account and completed a credit 
check. So, overall, I dont think Barclays requirement to request further information was 
unreasonable. 
Ive gone on to consider whether asking Mr F to attend a branch was fair given that Mr F had 
explained he was shielding due to the pandemic. Barclays has said that it would normally 
require a customer to attend a branch to provide the documents it needed to see. But it says 
that before it could consider alternatives ways of Mr F doing this, he ended the video call. 
I dont know how the video call ended and I cant be certain if Barclays wouldve gone on to 
suggest alternative ways for Mr F to provide the information required. But I can see that in its 
written response to Mr Fs complaint, Barclays did suggest the information it needed could 
be posted to it. So, on balance, I think its most likely that Barclays would have suggested 
that Mr F could have posted the documents to it had the video call continued. And, in any 
event, Mr F was aware this was an option by the time Barclays responded to his complaint. 
I understand that Mr F has said he doesnt have a printer and that his employer provides the 
information Barclays needed to him electronically. But I think Mr F could have asked his 
employer to print and send him the documents he needed if he wanted to pursue the 
overdraft limit increase. Given all the circumstances, I think Barclays provided Mr F with a 
reasonable alternative to provide the documents it needed.I note that in making his enquiries, Mr F has said he had trouble contacting Barclays by 
phone. And I accept this. But, as the investigator explained, the pandemic has impacted on 
everyone in the UK  including, on how businesses operate. Banks have had to adapt 
quickly with many of their call centre staff having to work from home. And this has had an 
impact on service levels provided.
So, while I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr F to experience some difficulties reaching 
Barclays by phone, I dont think longer call waiting times were unavoidable or something that 
I hold Barclays solely responsible for given the wider circumstances at the time. And, 
ultimately, Mr F was able to talk to Barclays having arranged a video call. 
I can see that Barclays apologised for the trouble Mr F had trying to contact it. But, 
considering all of the above, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong to the extent that a 
compensation award is appropriate. So, Im not going to ask Barclays to take any further 
action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman