DRN-3418572
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage that Mrs and Mr E applied for, and eventually obtained, 
through the offices of a mortgage broker that is part of HL Partnership Limited (HL). The 
essence of the complaint is that the brokers mortgage advisor misled Mrs and Mr E into 
believing their application was progressing with the lender  even to the point of fabricating 
an agreement in principle  when in reality the application hadnt even been submitted. 
The application was eventually made (and fast-tracked) after the individual advisors 
deception had been revealed. The mortgage offer was issued, and Mrs and Mr E were 
ultimately able to complete on their intended house purchase. Mrs and Mr E are seeking 
reimbursement of what they say are their financial losses, plus substantial compensation for 
the stress they experienced.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr E and HL. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has 
been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs and Mr E being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, 
rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
The application began in May 2021; for the rest of May and all of June, there was extensive 
communication between Mrs and Mr E and the advisor; in all of that correspondence, the 
advisors position was that the application was progressing and offer would be available any 
time soon. However, in early July 2021, frustrated at still not having received an offer, 
Mrs and Mr E contacted the lender directly only to learn that no application had ever been 
made. 
They contacted the broker firms management to complain, and the application was 
immediately taken out of the advisors hands. The broker firm expedited an application to the 
lender; although fast-tracked, it still faced some hurdles at the lenders end, but an offer was 
produced on 21 July 2021, and Mrs and Mr E were able to complete their purchase and 
move house.
The broker firm then turned its attention to the complaint; it accepted entirely that its advisor 
had let Mrs and Mr E down and apologised profusely; it offered to waive their broker fee of 
£299 and offered £250 compensation for their time, trouble and upset. This didnt appease 
Mrs and Mr E, so the broker firm escalated matters to HL to review. HL agreed entirely with 
the broker firms opinion that Mrs and Mr E had been let down badly; to resolve matters, it 
made an enhanced offer of £500 compensation, along with the broker fee refund.
Mrs and Mr E referred their complaint to us; in doing so, they sought redress of £2,730. This 
was comprised of £1,725 in Stamp Duty Land Tax (SDLT) that they wouldnt have incurred if 
theyd completed before 30 June 2021, plus £1,005 to reimburse their time spent dealing 
with the situation, plus parking costs. Additionally, they asked to be compensated for 
distress, inconvenience, pain and suffering, albeit this was not quantified.
Our investigator considered HLs settlement offer to be fair and reasonable, and didnt 
recommend any further redress. Mrs and Mr E have asked for the case to be decided by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The case itself is simpler to decide than it might appear at first glance. Thats because I dont 
have to decide fault. The main facts of what happened arent in dispute, and both the broker 
firm and HL have accepted the advisor shortcomings from the outset. What I do have to 
decide is whether the redress HL has offered Mrs and Mr E is fair, or whether there is more it 
needs to do to put things right for them.
Mortgage underwriting isnt an exact science; nor is it a mechanical process. Lenders 
generally have anticipated timescales for how long an application might take, but 
occasionally things take longer than expected. If Im to order HL to pay Mrs and Mr E the 
compensation theyre seeking, I have to be satisfied that HL unduly and excessively delayed 
the mortgage application by way of specific errors or omissions, and that the delay was the 
sole or over-riding cause of loss, financial or non-financial, to Mrs and Mrs E.
As Ive already indicated, the first test has already been passed, and isnt being contested by 
HL. Its on the second test that things arent so clear. I say that because, if Im to direct HL to 
reimburse Mrs and Mr E their SDLT bill, I have to be satisfied that but for the advisors clear 
failings, they would have received their mortgage offer in time for the their house purchase to 
complete on or before 30 June 2021. When I say I need to be satisfied, Im required to reach 
my decision on the basis of what I consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance 
of probabilities. 
Thats broadly the same test used by the courts in civil cases, and what it means for 
Mrs and Mr E is that, as the parties making the argument, it falls to them to show that if their 
application had proceeded as normal from the outset, then its more likely than not that 
theyd have completed on or before 30 June 2021. Ive emphasised the phrase more likely 
than not because just as likely isnt enough. 
Ive read all of the messages, in all formats, that were exchanged during May and June 
2021; the references to the need to progress matters are many and varied, but the SDLT 
deadline is barely mentioned. Thats not to say I dont accept Mrs and Mr E wouldnt have 
liked to avoid paying it if it were at all possible. But the reality is that the purchase of a property typically takes around three months, from having an offer accepted to a purchase 
completing. 
Thats not a hard and fast rule; as with mortgage underwriting, its an inexact science rather 
than a mechanical process. But with the best will in the world, bearing in mind this process 
only started in early May 2021, Id struggle to conclude that completion on or before 
30 June 2021 was more likely to have happened than not.  For that reason, I dont find HL 
liable to reimburse Mrs and Mr E their SDLT bill. 
That brings me to compensation for time, trouble and upset. We dont generally compensate 
people for their time by reference to an hourly rate, or annual leave taken from work. We 
also take the view that even in the best ordered situation, some things can or will go wrong 
in such a complex transaction as a house move, and some degree of stress and 
inconvenience is to be expected. Taking into consideration everything that both parties have 
said and provided, and mindful of our general approach. I consider that £500 represents fair 
and reasonable compensation for what Ive no doubt was a deeply unpleasant experience 
for Mrs and Mr E.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from their submissions how important this is to Mrs and Mr E. Thats 
a natural reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as they 
have been here. This is very much a subjective area; everyone reacts to and perceives 
things differently, especially in the moment, when subject to the stresses that are inherent 
in a house transaction. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome. Having done that, and having considered everything that 
both parties have said and provided, I think that the compensation of £500, plus the refund 
of the £299 broker fee, already offered is fair redress for the impact of HLs accepted 
failures.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Ill leave it to Mrs and Mr E to decide if 
they want to accept the settlement offer HL made to them. If they do, they can contact HL 
directly.  
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman