DRN-4521043
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as B, complains that HDI Global SE rejected a claim on 
its business protection insurance and said the policy was void.
Ms A, a director of B, brings the complaint on Bs behalf.
What happened
B made a claim on its business protection insurance policy following a fire at its premises. 
HDI appointed loss adjusters to look into the claim and they asked for information from B 
before making a decision. Correspondence continued for some time and B complained 
about how long the process was taking. 
When that complaint was referred to this Service, our investigator said some of the delay 
had been caused by HDI and asked it to pay compensation of £200. She said HDI should 
make its decision on the claim promptly.
After considering all the information provided, HDI concluded that B had made a 
misrepresentation when it took out the policy, so it refused to pay the claim and said the 
policy was void. The misrepresentation concerned information B had provided about 
electrical testing and kitchen cleaning.
B has now complained about this decision. 
HDI says when B took out the policy information was provided that was incorrect and if the 
correct information had been provided it would not have offered insurance, so its entitled to 
void the policy. But as the misrepresentation wasnt deliberate or reckless it has returned the 
premium paid.
Our investigator thought HDIs decision was fair but B disagrees and has requested an 
ombudsmans decision. 
B has been assisted in bringing the complaint by a representative. They have provided 
detailed submissions on Bs behalf. I wont set them out in detail but the key points include:
When the loss adjusters requested information no questions were raised about the 
nature of the electrical testing or the electricians qualifications.
A copy of the invoice for electrical testing and minor works was provided and it was 
only after this that HDI expressed any concern.
The electrician had told Ms A he was a qualified electrician and registered with the 
relevant body. Hes well known in the area and Ms A had no reason to doubt him.
Theres no suggestion the work done by the electrician was defective or caused the 
fire.
As with the electrical testing, HDI expressed no concerns about the cleaning until a 
late stage in dealing with the claim.
The same person who did the electrical work also carried out work cleaning the 
kitchen ducting. Hes a professional contractor who confirmed to Ms A that he was 
qualified to carry out the kitchen duct cleaning and had done this for other 
restaurants.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In making my decision I need to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case, taking into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time.
Bs representative has provided very detailed comments covering a number of issues. While 
Ive considered everything I wont comment on every point raised. My role is to use my 
judgement to decide what is fair, based on the main crux of a case. So I will focus on the key 
points that are relevant to the outcome Ive reached.
The crux of the matter is whether it was fair for HDI to decline the claim and void the policy 
on the basis there was a misrepresentation.
This was a commercial policy. Under the relevant law (the Insurance Act 2015) B had a duty 
to make a fair presentation of the risk. This means B  or the director, Ms A, on its behalf  
had to provide either 
disclosure of every material circumstance which they knew or ought to have known, 
or
failing that, disclosure which provided enough information to put a prudent insurer on 
notice that it needs to make further enquiries for the purpose of revealing those 
material circumstances.
The Insurance Act says the policyholder ought to know what should reasonably have been 
revealed by a reasonable search of information available to them. So the policyholder should 
take reasonable steps to check any available information and consider if theres anything 
they ought to disclose. 
When it took out the policy B was asked to confirm if the electrical installation had been 
tested by a certified NICEIC, ELECSA or ECA contractor in the last 5 years, with all reported 
defects remedied.
This was a question of fact  either it had been done by a certified contractor or it hadnt. 
Any representation as to a matter of fact needs to be substantially correct. B answered yes 
to this but HDI has now established that the contractor wasnt certified, so the answer given 
was not correct.
Ms A says she relied on what the contractor told her. But she was required to take 
reasonable steps to check any available information. She had no information from the 
contractor about his qualifications or membership. The invoice is handwritten on a piece of 
paper with no details and there was nothing to show he was qualified or a member of any 
professional organisation. A simple check with those organisations would have confirmed 
this.
HDI did check with the bodies and they confirmed the electrician wasnt a member (and had 
never been listed as one). 
Bs representative questions if the issue of whether the electrician was certified would be a 
material consideration for a prudent insurer  since an inexperienced electrician might be certified but a more experienced one might not. And it says the issue is what would be 
material to a prudent insurer, not necessarily just to this insurer.
I agree that in the second part of the duty (referred to above), where someone is providing 
information to enable the insurer to make further enquiries the reference is to a prudent 
insurer. But in this case, Ms A was asked a specific question. I think it was clear from that 
question HDI wanted to know if the electrician was certified. Ms A needed to confirm that. 
And if she didnt know, she needed to carry out a reasonable search of information to 
establish it. Ms A could easily have established whether the electrician was certified but 
didnt do so.
On this basis Im satisfied there was a breach of the duty to make a fair presentation of the 
risk.
For this to be a qualifying breach under the Act, HDI needs to show it either wouldnt have 
offered the insurance at all or would only have done so on different terms.
HDI has provided information showing that if the correct information had been provided it 
would not have offered insurance. 
Bs representative questions the relevance of whether the electrician was a member of the 
relevant body. HDI has explained that the material difference for an insurer is that a certified 
contractor will ensure the electrical installation is tested in line with and complies with the 
relevant safety standards. And membership is renewed each year following an assessment 
process. 
The whole point of certification is to provide customers with an assurance that the electrician 
is qualified and carries out work to the relevant standards. It seems to me this would be 
relevant to a prudent insurer. And it was relevant to HDI, which would not offer insurance 
unless the electrical installation had been tested by a certified contractor.
B hasnt been able to show the electrician was working to the standards and competencies 
required of a certified contractor.
So this was a qualifying breach, but it was careless rather than deliberate or reckless. The 
Insurance Act sets out the remedies available to an insurer in these circumstances. HDI is 
entitled to void the policy but must return the premiums, which is what it has done.
I think that in itself would be enough to say HDIs decision was reasonable. There is also the 
issue of the second question, about cleaning. This required confirmation that the kitchen 
and/or canopy hood, range extraction systems and ducting were maintained and cleaned by 
a professional contractor. On this point too, B hasnt shown the contractor was a 
professional. The same points apply here as with the electrical certification. 
Bs representative says theres no evidence the contractors work was defective or caused 
the incident. If HDI had rejected the claim on the basis of a breach of condition relating to the 
work, that might be a relevant consideration. But its not relevant to the question of whether 
there was a breach of the duty of fair presentation, which is about what happened when the 
policy was taken out.
Finally, Bs representative says it hasnt seen HDIs underwriting criteria and in the interests 
of natural justice should be given the opportunity to comment on it  seeing a redacted 
version of it if necessary. The Ombudsman may accept evidence in confidence where he 
considers it appropriate and given the commercial sensitivity of HDIs underwriting criteria 
Im satisfied it is reasonable to deal with it on this basis. B has been given a summary and is aware of HDIs position on this. 
I appreciate the consequences of the fire were difficult for B and this was compounded by 
the amount of time taken to deal with the claim and the eventual outcome. Some of the 
points HDI made only arose late on, but that was because it was waiting for information 
about, for example, the electricians qualifications and certification. It was only once HDI had 
the information that it was able to make a decision. 
Its fair to expect a business to take reasonable steps to safeguard its position, including 
when taking out insurance. In the circumstances of this case I am satisfied that it was fair for 
HDI to conclude there was a misrepresentation and implement the remedy available under 
the Insurance Act.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman