DRN-2913841
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain about the way that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has 
dealt with their home insurance claim for subsidence damage. The bulk of the actual claim 
was dealt on behalf of with by loss adjusters though for convenience Ill mostly refer to RSA 
throughout.  
What happened
In September 2018 Mr and Mrs I lodged a claim with RSA following their discovery of 
cracking in their property. About 20 years previously they had had a claim for subsidence 
damage which was dealt with after removal of vegetation close to the house. RSA appointed 
loss adjusters who organised a survey and concluded that the subsidence was caused by 
clay shrinkage during the hot summer in turn caused by the privet hedge close to the 
building. Mr and Mrs I arranged for the removal of the hedge in November 2018. At that 
stage the loss adjusters decided that there didnt need to be any monitoring of the property. 
In April 2019 an engineer appointed by RSA carried out a survey and it was noted that the 
property was likely still moving. Monitoring was arranged for a period of six months from 
June 2019 and it was recommended by the engineer that an arborist be appointed to identify 
any trees that might be implicated in the subsidence.
The arborist carried out a site visit in August 2019. His conclusions were advised to Mr and 
Mrs I in November 2019. These were that a nearby willow tree be pollarded and an ash tree 
removed. He also recommended ongoing managing of other trees. Mr and Mrs I arranged 
for the willow tree to be pollarded. I understand that no other tree was removed. 
Mr and Mrs I decided to appoint their own engineer (D) to review the claim and he reported 
in January 2020 recommending further site investigations, foundation exposures, soil 
analysis, and drain surveys of the foul and surface water drains and disposal systems. RSA 
didnt think further investigations needed to take place.  In February 2020 studs were placed 
on the property for further monitoring to take place, and in March 2020 some defective 
guttering was replaced. After further readings every two months, it was decided in 
September 2020 that six months further monitoring needed to take place.
In May 2021 RSA advised Mr and Mrs I that the results of the further monitoring revealed 
that the building was now stable. It proposed to carry out repairs and with a view to this has 
sent out contractors to draw up a schedule of works. Mr and Mrs I werent happy with this as 
D had identified that the cause of the clay shrinkage had not been established and RSA 
hadnt carried out the recommended site investigations. They wanted Ds fee to be paid by 
RSA, which it had declined to do.
On review by this service our investigator ultimately said that there had been delays and a 
lack of communication on RSAs part, especially during the early days of the claim. He 
proposed that it pay compensation of £250. However he didnt think it necessary fir RSA to 
carry out further investigations.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
further investigations
Both sides appointed chartered engineers to consider this matter so their conclusions are in 
my view of equal standing.
D recommended further investigations take place. He doubted that the willow tree was the 
cause of the damage. These included investigations of the foundations of the property and 
its two extensions built at different times and likely to have different depths. This would be in 
conjunction with a soil analysis. If the building was still moving Im sure that further 
investigations would have to take place. But D also recommended in January 2020 that 
monitoring be recommenced and continued on a 2 monthly basis until all movement had 
ceased and the structure remained stable for at least 3 visits. I understand that, as at May 
2021 and following effectively a year of monitoring, the building has now been pronounced to 
be stable. If that is the case, it appears to show that RSAs view of the case is right and that 
it can proceed to repairs. I should emphasise that RSA will be responsible for the repairs and 
will have to issue a certificate of structural stability once the claim is completed.
In that event I dont propose to direct RSA to carry out further investigations. As the claim is 
still proceeding, I cant comment on the schedule of works it is now drawing up, but if Mr and 
Mrs I are unhappy with that they will have to take it up further with RSA.
Mr and Mrs I have drawn my attention to the final response letter from RSA in which it was 
said that the arborists report was inconclusive. I think that was an error on the part of the 
complaints handler. From the information I have seen RSA was satisfied with the arborists 
report and that it appeared to be the solution to the way forward, after further monitoring.
delay
There were delays especially in the earlier part of the claim. After the hedge was removed 
RSA deemed it unnecessary to carry out further monitoring, which would be normal after 
removal of vegetation. It then took until April 2019 to set up a new survey. And monitoring 
didnt start again until June 2019. Further although the arborist came out to do a survey in 
June 2019, it was a further four months before the result of the survey, and the action 
needed to be taken was reported back to Mr and Mrs I. I appreciate that when a property 
isnt stable further monitoring is needed and, in this case for RSA to get a full picture, up to a 
year of monitoring was needed. So until it was identified that the property was stable, there 
was little further action RSA could take. So whilst I understand how frustrating it was for 
Mr and Mrs I, unfortunately their claim was always going to take a substantial time to 
resolve. For the delays and lack of communication, especially in the early part of the claim, I 
think the appropriate award of compensation is £250.
cost of removing trees
This service regards it as normal practice, as part of carrying out an effective repair, for the 
insurer to pay the cost of removing and/or cutting back vegetation, where it is deemed to be 
the cause of the subsidence. As far as I can see Mr and Mrs I paid £300 for the removal of 
the hedge and £480 for the pollarding of the willow tree. So RSA should refund those costs 
to them and pay 8% simple interest per year on the respective sums from the date they were 
paid by Mr and Mrs I until reimbursement. Mr and Mrs I should produce the necessary 
invoices to RSA. Ive notified the parties of my proposal to add this to this final decision.
surveyors feesI understand why Mr and Mrs I felt it necessary to employ a surveyor, but as his report hasnt 
changed the course of the claim or complaint, I dont think it appropriate to ask RSA to pay 
his costs.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc:
On production by Mr and Mrs I of the necessary invoices, to pay to them the costs of 
removing the hedge and pollarding the willow tree and to pay 8% simple interest* per year 
on the respective sums from the dates they were paid by Mr and Mrs I until reimbursement.
To pay Mr and Mrs I £250 compensation. 
*Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax 
from any interest paid. Should Mr and Mrs I request it, it should provide them with a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, they can reclaim.
it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman