DRN-4062207
The complaint
Mrs A complains about a decision by American Express Services Europe Limited, who Ill 
call American Express, not to progress her chargeback claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs A, but I dont think American Express have been unreasonable 
here. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible for the business to raise a chargeback claim.
American Express didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it good practice for 
them to do so where the right exists and there is a prospect of success.
Mrs A paid for her sons flight ticket and her own ticket, under two separate transactions. I 
can completely understand that when the flight booking agent subsequently informed her 
there were problems and her sons booking needed to be cancelled and fully refunded, she 
would want to cancel her own booking and rearrange so they could both travel together. 
But as both bookings were separate transactions, I think American Express were reasonable 
to treat them as such. There was no reason why a chargeback could succeed in respect of 
Mrs As sons booking as the merchant had provided a full refund and there was nothing to 
charge back. There was also no reason why a chargeback claim for Mrs As ticket price 
could succeed as Mrs A had cancelled the ticket herself. A chargeback to reclaim the 
resulting cancellation fees wouldnt succeed either as they arose as a result of the 
cancellation, and the charges were incurred in line with the merchants terms and conditions.
American Express also considered a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
(1974). That says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has 
a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
But for American Express to have that liability it needed to have a relevant relationship with 
the supplier of the goods and American Express has argued that it didnt have a relevant 
relationship with the airline as their relationship was only with the flight booking agent. In 
those circumstances a claim under section 75 couldnt be made, but even if I was to 
consider otherwise, I dont think a section 75 claim could succeed here. Thats because any 
misrepresentation made by the flight booking agent with regard to availability was remedied 
when the price of Mrs As sons ticket was refunded, and because I cant see there has been 
any other misrepresentation or breach of contract.
It's for those reasons that I dont think American Express have been unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman