DRN-4116012
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) have unfairly 
declined their buildings insurance claim.
All references to RSA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In particular RSAs surveyor identified issues with the mix of the infill of the Gable 
which it says would have meant it would inevitably fail. It says this meant the damage 
has occurred gradually rather than due to a one-off incident  a storm.
RSA has declined the claim as gradual damage or damage due to faulty 
workmanship or materials, is excluded under the policy.
RSAs surveyor has provided voice notes and photographs from the time of attending 
Mr and Mrs Ws property. From the photos I can see what appears to be quite severe 
deterioration to the infill. While storm conditions were present, I wouldnt expect to 
see the level of deterioration seen, from the conditions reported at the time of the 
incident.
Mr and Mrs W have provided a letter from a builder which says the damage has 
happened due to a knock-on effect of stormy weather. But this doesnt confirm the 
storm was the dominant cause of the damage.
The builder also commented rain seeping through the interior and exterior wall would 
have caused it to bulge and collapse as a result. But this is more consistent of 
something that would happen gradually  not over the course of one storm. Records 
also show the storm was a dry storm  so Im not persuaded by this.
I do appreciate the damage to the property was extensive, and the worry this would 
understandably cause due to the expense in rectifying it. But having reviewed 
everything available to me, I dont think RSAs conclusions are obviously wrong. So, I 
dont think it has acted unfairly in applying the exclusion to decline Mr and Mrs Ws 
claim.
So, for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman