DRN-3563446
The complaint
Mr H complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc (M&S) has refused to refund 
payments he says he made because of a scam.  These payments were made using Mr Hs 
M&S Mastercard credit card.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Mr H says he made two payments for a crypto asset which I will refer to as N in this decision.  
He says he believed the N was coming from a  very successful UK multiple business 
owner  (whom I will refer to as M in this decision)  through his chain of companies of 
which he marketed as the worlds first digital asset with its own financial eco-system and 
market place.  Mr H explains that M  promised each purchaser of his [N] tokens their own 
debit cards and e-wallet mobile app to store their N and to use them in his business.
In short, Mr H says he that he did not receive any of the above after he made his payments.  
Because of this, he says he tried to contact Ms company and request a full refund; this was 
to no avail.  Mr H then contacted M&S and asked it to recover the money he says he lost.  
As this did not happen, he raised a complaint which he referred to our service.
The payments in question made from Mr Hs M&S Mastercard credit card are:
Date Merchant Amount
February 2017 Ms company £2,500
April 2017 M £2,297.10 (plus £68.68 
transaction fee)
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it.  In short, he did not think Mr 
H had any chargeback rights.  However, he held that Mr H did have a valid claim for 
misrepresentation and breach of contract under section 75.  Therefore, he suggested M&S 
pay Mr H all the money he lost.
Mr H accepted the investigators findings.  However, M&S did not respond.  Because of this, 
the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
On 6 June 2022, I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint.  For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not agree with the investigator that this complaint should be upheld.  I 
set out my reasons below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
The first thing I need to consider in this case is whether I am satisfied Mr H was scammed.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as payments to an investment scam is in 
fact a scam.  Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses.  And in some other cases: initial coin offering ventures which do not come 
to fruition. 
Certain high-risk investment traders and initial coin offerings may have promoted their 
products and ventures using methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading.  
However, whilst customers who lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions 
as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for 
fraud; i.e. dishonestly making a false representation and/or failing to disclose information 
with the intention of making a gain for himself, or of causing loss to another or exposing 
another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
In simpler terms, some suppliers may have used sales and promotional methods that could 
be seen to be unfair by consumers considering the losses they have incurred  but this does 
not always amount to fraud.
When considering this for Mr Hs case, I have paid particular attention to the official 
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad.  I 
have searched the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities 
regulators.  And the Financial Conduct Authority (as the UK regulator) also has its own 
warning list, which is in place to share alerts and insight about merchants that have been 
identified as potentially being fraudulent.
Upon checking both, it is my understanding that neither M nor his company have any 
adverse information reported about them.  Indeed, my own research has not resulted in any 
credible information to show they were fraudulent.  
I do not shy away from the fact Mr H has provided various negative online material about M 
and his company.  However, whilst I acknowledge this could be seen as circumstantial 
evidence that helps paint an overall picture of M and his company  I am not persuaded that 
it is sufficient evidence of fraud.  I say this because I must place weight on credible evidence 
 for example, warnings about companies placed on IOSCOs Alerts Portal and/or those 
published on the FCA website.  In Mr Hs case, there are no such warnings about M and his 
company.
Therefore, I must follow the evidence before me and, in doing so, I have seen no credible 
evidence to persuade me with any degree of certainty that M and his company were 
operating a scam.  
Mr H says because of IT issues, he only has what he has submitted to our service.  I have 
considered Mr Hs submissions carefully  particularly the Whitepaper.  Having done so, I 
am not able to safely conclude Mr H was scammed based on what he has provided.  To my 
mind, the Whitepaper itself does not prove Mr H was scammed; it simply sets out, amongst 
other things, information about the initial coin offering venture.Finally, M&Ss duty is to guard against the risk of fraud and scams; it is not to give advice 
about coin offering ventures, investments or protect consumers from bad bargains.  As I am 
not able to safely conclude Mr H was scammed, I cannot say M&S acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by not intervening to ask questions about Mr Hs payments before they were 
let go.
Responses to my provisional decision
M&S did not respond to my provisional findings, but Mr H did.  His position, broadly, is that:
M&S accepted that he was the victim of fraud.
He has section 75 rights regarding the payments he made.  He says he attended 
workshops held by M whereby he made his purchases.  Mr H says M  had made 
an offer for his services relating to the project which he presented to an audience of 
would be purchasers  during the ensuing months [M] had shown to mis-represent 
what he claimed to be offering and was also in breach of the contract to which he and 
his purchasers had agreed to.
My provisional findings are not consistent with another case Mr H referred to our 
Service which is linked to this one.  In that case, the investigator considered that Mr 
H had section 75 rights and so upheld his complaint, which the business complained 
of accepted.
M&S did not challenge the investigators findings: I feel strongly that their silence 
should be your silence may be taken to mean tacit agreement.
The investigators revision of the redress he recommended in his view was shared 
with him, but not M&S.
The payments in question were unusual for his account spending, so M&S should 
have intervened and blocked these payments.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure Mr H that although I have only set out the key points of his response 
to my provisional findings, I have read and considered everything he has provided.
I acknowledge Mr H says M&S accepts he was the victim of a scam.  But this does not mean 
I must agree with it if I am not persuaded this has happened.
Mr H has said he attended workshops whereby M  made an offer for his services relating 
to the project   As a result of this, Mr H made his purchases.  However, I have seen no 
evidence to support this.  Further or alternatively, even if I were persuaded that M and his 
company operated a scam, I have seen no evidence of an actionable breach of contract 
and/or misrepresentation in this case.  The Whitepaper Mr H provided mainly sets out 
information about the initial coin offering venture, it does not make any promises or 
guarantees.  If this venture did not come to fruition, it does not follow that Mr H has an action 
for breach of contract and/or misrepresentation.
In the linked case Mr H refers to, I am unable to comment on why the business complained 
of accepted the investigators findings in favour of Mr H  nor am I able to take it into 
account.  This does not have any bearing on Mr Hs complaint about M&S; nor does the fact the investigator did not share his revised redress with M&S, or the fact it did not respond to 
his findings.
Finally, I do not find the payments in question to be so unusual to have warranted an 
intervention from M&S  particularly given the amounts of the transactions.
Taking all the above points together, I am not persuaded to depart from my provisional 
findings not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman