DRN-3721078
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car he acquired with finance provided by Oodle Financial Services 
Limited was mis-sold and of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr M acquired this car under a hire purchase agreement (HPA) from Oodle dated 15 July 
2021. On (or very shortly after) collection he reported a number of issues and the supplying 
dealer agreed to undertake some repairs. Mr M remained unhappy and he contacted Oodle, 
in early September, asking to reject the car. 
Mr M considers the car was mis-sold and is of unsatisfactory quality. Among other things, he 
refers to faulty and damaged parts, warning lights and being told the car has four-wheel 
drive when it doesnt. He thinks the car has several modifications - including changes to the 
air intake system and suspension  that adversely affect day to day driving and invalidate a 
warranty he got with the vehicle.
The supplying dealer told Oodle that various issues with tyres and bodywork were resolved, 
at no cost to Mr M - and other parts were within MOT standards. The dealer denied 
misrepresentations were made and said registration documents show the car is front wheel 
drive - and it doesnt have any badges or other identifying marks to suggest otherwise. The 
dealer accepted front suspension springs were not to the manufacturers specification and 
offered to refit to resolve this.
Oodle thought the car had been advertised accurately as the suspension was to the 
manufacturers specification albeit the coils arent. Oodle acknowledged this should have 
been made clear in the advertisement but didnt think it was likely to have influenced Mr Ms 
decision to acquire the car. And it was satisfied that Mr M had the chance to inspect, the car 
had obviously been lowered and the invoice says he accepted modifications present.
Mr M thought this was unfair and he should be allowed to reject the car and receive a refund 
- or he was willing to keep the vehicle if Oodle would provide a warranty and pay for repairs. 
He contacted Oodle again and (near the end of October 2021) Oodle offered to pay £300 
compensation for distress and inconvenience and appoint independent expert to inspect. Mr 
M agreed, then Oodle told him the supplying dealer had offered to take the car back - as a 
goodwill gesture. Oodle said it would pay for collection and the deposit would be refunded 
with a deduction of 25p a mile for use. 
The car was due to be collected in mid-November 2021 but Mr M contacted Oodle, the day 
before, to say he needed more time to source a new car. Oodle gave Mr M a day to decide if 
he wanted to reject or not and Mr M thought this was unreasonable. He said it didnt give him 
enough time to get a replacement and he needed transport to attend a family funeral in 
another part of the country. Oodle agreed to postpone collection for a short time in the 
circumstances but Mr M still felt rushed and wanted more time. Oodle considered it had 
done enough to resolve the matter, there wasnt enough evidence to show the car was mis-
represented or of unsatisfactory quality and, as Mr M didnt accept the goodwill offer, it 
shouldnt have to do anything else. 
The offer to take the car back was withdrawn and Mr M referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She couldnt see any 
reference to the car being four wheel drive in the relevant paperwork. And she didnt think 
there was enough evidence to show the car was misrepresented. She was satisfied that Mr 
M had enough information to check if this was the model he wanted. And the advertisement 
refers to sport suspension as a factory-fitted extra so he should have realised this would be 
different to a standard model. In addition the invoice notes that he was happy with any 
obvious modifications.
The investigator acknowledged front springs werent to the manufacturers specification but 
shes not persuaded this mean the car was of unsatisfactory quality. She had no evidence to 
show that the warranty was invalidated by the changes and she considered the repairs the 
dealer arranged and paid for were fair and carried out to a reasonable standard. On balance, 
the investigator wasnt persuaded that any significant quality issues remain or that Oodle 
had treated Mr M unfairly. She found the offer to take the car back was fair and the timescale 
for collection wasnt unreasonable and she didnt think Oodle should have to do anything 
else.
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. He felt the investigator had taken 
Oodles side and he had the car checked by a local main dealer and sent us a vehicle health 
check (VHC). This confirms the car was modified and he feels strongly that it was mis-sold.
Having considered the available evidence, I was minded to uphold this complaint. I thought it 
was fair to give the parties the chance to see my provisional findings (and make further 
submissions if they wanted to) before I made my final decision so I issued a provisional 
decision on 8 September 2022. Ive set out below what I decided provisionally - and why. 
This forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Both parties have provided a good deal of evidence here and made fairly detailed 
submissions so Im going to have to summarise things in my decision. The rules of our 
service allow me to do this. And I want to assure both parties, if I dont mention every single 
point thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have considered 
everything thats been said and sent to us. However, Im going to concentrate on what I 
consider is key to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
I should make it clear at the start that the Financial Ombudsman Service provides alternative 
dispute resolution thats free to complainants. But, Im not a regulator. I dont have the power 
to tell Oodle how to operate on a day to day basis and its not within my remit to punish a 
financial business or any individual. My job here is to look at all of the information available 
about this particular complaint, without taking sides, and consider the merits on a fair and 
reasonable basis.
Oodle supplied this car to Mr M under a HPA and it was obliged, under the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015 (CRA), to ensure (amongst other things) that the car was as described and of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
What amounts to satisfactory quality will vary depending on individual circumstances. The 
quality of goods includes their general state and condition as well as other things like fitness 
for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability. And 
goods need to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory. In 
the case of a used car, it is generally considered reasonable to take the age, cost and 
mileage at the point of supply into account.
The car Mr M got here was around two years old with just under 19,000 miles on the clock 
and cost over £30,000. Mr M paid a cash deposit of £8,200 and borrowed the rest under the HPA agreeing to repay the finance in 60 monthly instalments of just over £500. I think a 
reasonable person would accept that a car like this was likely to have some parts that were 
worn and would need replacing or repairing sooner or later  which is reflected in the lower 
price paid compared to the price of a brand new vehicle. 
I can see that Mr M raised a number of issues regarding the quality of the car generally. But, 
in view of my findings below, I dont think I need to comment any further on those here. I say 
this because I think the crux of Mr Ms complaint is really two-fold. First, he says he wanted a 
four wheel drive model so he asked the salesman about this specifically and he was told that 
it was four wheel drive when its not. Second, hes unhappy because he discovered the car 
was modified in a number of ways that he wasnt told about and werent obvious at the point 
of sale. In particular, Mr M considers the car was not as advertised, in that, the suspension 
is not factory fitted S line  it was lowered after manufacture.
Im satisfied that this car should have been described accurately (under the CRA) and I can 
consider any representations made during the course of pre-sale negotiations in this 
complaint against Oodle, under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. For me to find 
there had been a misrepresentation here, Id need to be satisfied that the dealer probably 
told Mr M something that wasnt true and that untrue statement induced him to take out this 
HPA.
I cant be certain what was said when Mr M agreed to acquire the car. Ive considered the 
relevant paperwork (including the advert) and Ive seen nothing to suggest that the car had 
four wheel drive. I realise this is frustrating for Mr M, who says his partner was present when 
he was told this as well. But, I cant rule out the possibility there may have been some mis- 
understanding about this at the time. And, on balance, I dont have enough evidence to find 
that this feature of the vehicle was mis-represented. 
I dont think theres any dispute however that the car was modified. Oodle seems to accept 
that the suspension contains aftermarket springs that lower the car below the level of the 
manufacturers factory fitted sport suspension. And Mr M had the car checked by a main 
dealer (that Ill call A) for this brand who confirmed (when I spoke to them) that the cars 
dump valve, exhaust and suspension springs have been all modified after manufacture and 
wheel spacers were also fitted.
I have seen some correspondence from the dealer that suggests Mr M wanted a modified 
car and I accept the invoice (addressed to the credit broker) has a note on that says 
Customer viewed and test driven vehicle and is happy with modifications including vinyl 
decals. Modifications include, Front splitter, Side skirts, Remus back box, Windscreen sun 
strip, Customer to return for front splitter replacement. However, I cant see any reference to 
modified springs or suspension in either the invoice or the advertisement.
Im satisfied the advert says the car has factory fitted S (or sport) suspension. And, given 
the front springs were changed after manufacture to lower this, I dont think that can be 
accurate. The dealer refers to a general disclaimer as regards accuracy included the advert 
But, Im not persuaded thats reasonable. It seems to refer to information just above - which 
relates to insurance and the like - not the cars specification. And, in any event, its difficult to 
see how best efforts were made to ensure that this information was correct on the facts 
here.
I accept it would have been obvious to any prospective purchaser that this car had some 
modifications present. The items listed on the invoice would probably have been visible to 
even the untrained eye. And I dont think Mr M disputes that he was aware of these changes. 
Im not persuaded however that its reasonable to suggest that a consumer is deemed to 
accept all modifications present just because hes aware of some.
Im satisfied (from speaking to A) that its unlikely Mr M (or any other untrained person) 
would have realised the full extent of the modifications to the suspension here without a 
detailed inspection. Im not satisfied Mr M should reasonably have been aware that this car had anything other than factory fitted suspension. And I think its reasonable to conclude that 
this car was mis-described at the point of supply - in that the suspension was not what a 
reasonable person would expect given the wording of the advertisement. I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Mr M to rely on that information, in this situation. And Ive gone on to 
consider whether this incorrect information is likely to have influenced his decision to acquire 
this particular car. 
Mr M lives in a large city and I think he would probably have been wary of accepting a car 
with particularly low suspension like this one. He told us he noticed the suspension wasnt 
right almost as soon as he got the car home. He found it didnt clear speed bumps cleanly 
and asked a local mechanic to take a look. The mechanic pointed out the modifications to 
the suspension, among other things. Ive seen an email that Mr M sent to the dealer at the 
very start of August 2021 where he refers to obtaining evidence from his mechanic about the 
suspension issue. I think Mr Ms actions at the time seem consistent with his being unaware 
of the modified suspension at the point of sale. I find it understandable he was most unhappy 
when he found out about that - and hes worried about the impact going forward.
On balance, I think its more likely than not Mr M would not have accepted this particular car 
if he hadnt believed the suspension was the manufacturers standard factory fitted S line. I 
can see the dealer has offered to replace the modified springs but Im not persuaded thats 
fair in all of the circumstances. Im satisfied the dealer has already had one opportunity to 
repair the car. And, given the time thats passed especially, Im inclined to find it fair and 
reasonable for Mr M to be put back in the position he would have been in if the car hadnt 
been misrepresented (so far as thats reasonably possible). Im minded therefore to find it is 
fair and reasonable for Mr M to be allowed to reject the car now and receive a refund.
For the reasons Ive given, Im inclined to require Oodle to end the HPA and arrange for the 
car to be collected  at no additional cost to Mr M. It looks as if Mr M paid a deposit of 
£8,200 which should be refunded. He doesnt seem to have been charged for the VHC (if Im 
wrong about that Mr M should let me know in response to this provisional decision). And, as 
far as I can tell, he seems to have been able to drive the car for the most part. I think it is 
reasonable for Oodle to retain the monthly payments made while Mr G had the use of the 
car. Im satisfied however that Mr Ms use of the car has probably been impaired due to the 
abnormally low suspension and I think Oodle should refund 10% of each monthly payment 
made towards the finance to reflect that.
I consider Oodle should also pay interest on all refunds and, if it has recorded any adverse 
information about the finance against Mr Ms credit file, this should be removed. I think Mr M 
has probably experienced some distress and inconvenience as a result of being supplied 
with this car. I have thought about what happened carefully and I am minded to find the £300 
compensation Oodle offered in October 2021 seems fair. I consider Oodle should pay Mr M 
£300 compensation for associated trouble and upset - if it hasnt done so already. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to let me have any further comments and or new information by 23 
September 2022. And I explained that Id review all the evidence available after that and 
make my final decision. 
I thank both parties for their responses. Mr M is happy with most of my provisional findings 
but feels he should receive a bigger refund. And Oodle accepted my provisional conclusions 
but asked to be allowed to collect the car and inspect for damage before agreeing to return 
the deposit. Ive thought carefully about Mr Ms comments. He acknowledges he had some use of the car 
but says hes only driven it about 5,500 miles and hes kept it in very good condition. He 
thinks a 10% refund means hell only get about £730 back - when he had to put up with a car 
that was unfit for purpose for months, which caused a great deal of stress and financial 
hardship, yet he never missed a payment. He says Oodle offered previously to charge 25p a 
mile for use - which would increase the refund significantly  although he acknowledges it 
may not be possible to reinstate that offer. He considers a fair resolution all round would be 
to charge the lease rate (for this model) of about £330 a month for the time he had the car.  
I understand Mr M feels strongly that he should have a bigger refund here. For the reasons 
Ive given already, Im satisfied the car was mis-sold and I remain of the view its fair that Mr 
M should be allowed to reject now. I think its fair however to take into account the passage 
of time and the use Mr M had of the vehicle. I note what he says about the relatively low 
miles accrued - but I cant reasonably exclude that fact that the car was able to be driven 
throughout. I accept Mr Ms use probably was impaired somewhat due to issues present at 
the point of supply and its reasonable he should be compensated for that. Its not open to 
me however to require Oodle to reinstate the offer made previously - at a time when Mr M 
only had the car for a few months and had likely accumulated significantly lower mileage. 
Ive considered what Mr M says about the lease rate but Im afraid thats a different sort of 
agreement to the HPA he took out with Oodle. Among other things, lease repayments are 
calculated and structured differently and, generally speaking, any advance payment wouldnt 
be refunded in the same way as the deposit here. Working out whats fair in this situation 
isnt a scientific exercise. Taking everything into account, I remain of the view that a refund 
of 10% of each monthly payment made is reasonable overall to reflect Mr Ms impaired use. 
I realise Mr M may still feel this is unfair, in light of everything he and his family have been 
through. He told us his partner, in particular, was very concerned and stressed when driving 
this car. I understand that must have been upsetting but Im unable to compensate any 
family members direct. Mr M alone is Oodles customer here and I remain of the view that 
£300 is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced.  
Finally, Ive given some thought to Oodles comments as well. Mr M told us the car is in very 
good condition so, hopefully, damage shouldnt be an issue. In the event this is a problem 
however, I think that would fall to be dealt with under the terms and conditions of the HPA. 
And Id remind the parties that the relevant obligations are not altered by my conclusions 
here.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require Oodle 
Financial Services Limited to:- 
1. end the HPA and arrange to take the car at no additional cost to Mr M;
2. refund the deposit paid plus 10% of each monthly payment made towards the 
finance;
3. pay interest on the above refunds at 8% a year simple from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
4. pay Mr M £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience (if it hasnt done so 
already); and
5. remove any adverse information recorded about the HPA from Mr Ms credit file.
If Oodle does not pay the compensation for inconvenience and distress within 28 days of the date on which we tell it that Mr M accepts my final decision then it must also pay 8% simple 
yearly interest on this from the date of my final decision to the date of payment. 
If Oodle considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest part of my award, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give him 
a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman