DRN-3868592
The complaint
Mrs F has complained about the way Hedgehog Limited administered her car insurance 
policy. Hedgehog cancelled Mrs Fs policy due to non-payment. 
What happened
Mrs F bought a car insurance policy with Hedgehog. It acted as administrator on behalf of 
the insurer of the policy. This included dealing with the collection of premiums due under the 
policy. 
Mrs F was paying for the policy in monthly instalments by Direct Debit (DD) under a credit 
agreement. Mrs F didnt meet the premium due by DD on 27 August 2022. On 1 September 
2022 Mrs F asked for an extension to pay the August premium until 25 September 2022. 
Hedgehog didnt agree. It said this would be two days before the September premium would 
be due by DD.
In line with its Terms of Business, Hedgehog attempted to collect the August premium a 
second time on 12 September 2022. But this wasnt successful. 
On 14 September 2022 Hedgehog issued a seven day cancellation notice by email to Mrs F. 
It said the policy would cancel on 21 September 2022 if the outstanding balance wasnt paid. 
It gave Mrs F until 19 September 2022 to make the missed payment. 
Mrs F didnt pay the missed premium and so following cancellation of the policy, Hedgehog 
collected the balance owed under the policy from the last card details it held on file. The card 
belonged to Mrs Fs husband as Mrs F had used his card to pay for an amendment to the 
policy in July 2022. 
Mrs F complained to Hedgehog. She said it had collected payment using her husbands card 
even though it had taken a premium after this from her account. So she didnt believe 
Hedgehog had acted correctly in collecting the balance from the last card details it held -  her 
husbands card. She accepted that under its Terms of Business it would use the last card 
details to collect a balance - but she believed this was hers. 
Mrs F was unhappy with the way the online agent had communicated with her - she found 
them rude and unhelpful. And she was unhappy that Hedgehog didnt agree to defer the 
August premium when she asked on 1 September 2022. 
In September 2022 Hedgehog didnt uphold Mrs Fs complaint. It said it had acted correctly 
and in line with the policy. So Mrs F asked us to look at her complaint. 
Our Investigator thought Hedgehog hadnt treated Mrs F fairly and cancelled Mrs Fs policy 
too early. The Investigator recommended Hedgehog remove the cancellation record from 
any internal or external databases, refund the cancellation fee of £60 and provide a pro rata 
refund of optional extra products Mrs F had paid for. 
Hedgehog didnt agree. It said Mrs F was given 25 days to pay the missed payment. If it had 
deferred for longer, Mrs F would have owed two months premiums for cover and this would 
have been a risk to the business. It said it wasnt responsible of Hedgehog to expect Mrs F 
to make two payments by 27 September 2022. 
So Hedgehog wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hedgehogs Terms of Business say it will collect the balance on cancellation from the last 
card details it held on file. Although it may have collected a Direct Debit payment from Mrs 
Fs account after the card payment was made in July 2022, I dont think Hedgehogs 
decision to collect the balance from her husbands card was incorrect. A Direct Debit 
payment isnt the same as a card payment. And on 21 September 2022 Hedgehog emailed 
Mrs F to set out he final balance on cancellation and gave the last four digits of the card it 
intended to collect the balance from in five days time. So I think Hedgehog followed its 
terms of business here. 
From the online chat screenshots provided, I havent seen anything to show Hedgehogs 
agent was rude or unhelpful to Mrs F. However, I dont think Hedgehog did enough when 
Mrs F asked for the premium payment to be deferred. 
Ive looked at guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) and in particular CONC 7, Arrears, default and recovery (including 
repossession).
CONC 7 sets out what is expected of lenders. It says they should consider consumers in 
default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. This could be in the 
form of waiving interest or deferring arrears payments. 
Lenders should essentially treat a consumer in financial difficulty fairly and get an 
understanding of their individual circumstances and discuss what help is appropriate.
The guidance says that a reasonable period of time would be considered to be around 30 
days. This equates to approximately a month. When Mrs F contacted Hedgehog on 1 
September 2022, she asked for a deferral period until 25 September 2022. This was 28 days 
after the payment of 27 August 2022 was due. 
Hedgehog didnt agree to a deferral - and I cannot see it made any attempt to take into 
account Mrs Fs circumstances and ask for more information. Mrs F told us shed changed 
roles and so her pay date had changed. This was the reason why she asked for a deferral. 
Hedgehog cancelled Mrs Fs policy on 21 September 2022. This was 25 days after the 
missed payment. And I note in the cancellation notice it gave Mrs F until 19 September 2022 
to make the payment, so two days before the cancellation date. 
I therefore find that Hedgehog didnt act reasonably when it cancelled Mrs Fs policy. This 
was less than 30 days from the date of the missed payment - and I dont think Hedgehog 
properly considered Mrs Fs circumstances in line with FCA guidance. I therefore agree with 
the Investigators recommendations to put things right which Ive set out below.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Hedgehog Limited to do the 
following:
Provide Mrs F with a letter confirming the policy was cancelled in error. 
Remove any record of the cancellation it has made. 
Provide a refund of the £60 cancellation fee it charged and provide a pro rata refund 
of the premium Mrs F paid for additional products. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman