DRN-2910590
The complaint
Mr O complains that Sabre Insurance Company Limited declined his claim on his motor 
insurance policy following the theft of his car. Mr O is represented in this matter by his 
solicitor, but for ease Ill just refer to Mr O. 
What happened
Mr O reported that his car had been stolen by relay theft. Sabre investigated the claim and 
thought there wasnt enough evidence to show that the car had been stolen in the way Mr O 
had described. And so it declined the claim as it thought there hadnt been an insurable 
event. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
evidence didnt show that the car had been stolen by relay theft. She thought Sabre had 
reasonably concluded that the car was stolen using a spare key or a cut and coded key, and 
there was no explanation for how this had been made possible. And so she thought it had 
reasonably declined the claim as there wasnt evidence that an insurable event had 
occurred. 
Mr O replied that hed not told Sabre that the car had been stolen by relay theft. He thought it 
was for Sabre to investigate how the car had been stolen. He also thought it had considered 
irrelevant evidence. Mr O asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr O reported the theft, Im satisfied from Sabres file that he said he thought the car 
had been stolen by relay theft. From the expert report commissioned by Sabre, I can see 
that this would mean one person had to be near his front door and another at the cars door 
handle to make the relay, unlock the car and start the ignition. This would have taken about 
two minutes to accomplish. 
But CCTV footage showed just one person approaching the car, unlocking it before he came 
near the car and then getting in and driving off in a matter of seconds. So I think Sabre 
reasonably concluded that relay theft hadnt taken place. 
Mr O had stated that no keys had been lost or stolen and didnt state that anyone other than 
he or his wife had access to the keys. Mr O was able to provide one key and a USB device 
following the theft. He located a second key a month later after Sabre told him that the theft 
didnt fit the criteria for relay theft. 
I think Sabre reasonably considered other means of keyless theft before deciding that the 
car had been stolen using one of its keys or one cut and coded to the car. And I think it 
reasonably relied on an expert report to support this conclusion. 
Mr O was concerned that our investigator considered irrelevant evidence in her view. This 
was an online search for the cars history and value and a court action taken against Mr O. 
But I think the investigator clearly explained that she didnt think these were strong enough 
to be considered and didnt affect Sabres decision. This was because the identity of the 
person who ran the check on the car wasnt established. And she didnt see the relevance of 
the court action two years earlier.
So I think Sabre reasonably tried to validate Mr Os claim. It commissioned expert reports on 
the cars keys and the possibility of relay theft. It considered Mr Os statement and CCTV 
evidence. Im satisfied that Sabre established that the evidence showed the theft couldnt 
have occurred as Mr O described. It also established that one of the cars keys or one 
copied from them was used for the theft. And so I think it reasonably decided that no 
insurable event had occurred. And so I dont require Sabre to pay Mr Os claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman