DRN-3103204
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard responded to his 
request that its annual fee be waived and the poor service which followed.
What happened
In May 2020 Barclays added its annual fee of £70 to Mr As credit card account. Mr A 
requested that Barclays consider waiving the £70 annual fee associated with his Premier 
account.
Barclays tried to contact Mr A via mobile and SMS but had been unsuccessful. Barclays 
therefore wrote to him at the end of June declining his request for an annual fee waiver and 
apologising for the long wait times on the phones, as it was running with reduced resource 
due to the pandemic at that time impacting its call centres, it explained the long wait times 
may continue and to bear with it. This letter was posted to his UK address on file.
Unfortunately, Mr A didnt receive this letter. As he thought his request had gone 
unanswered, Mr A paid off his outstanding balance less the £70 annual fee. As a result of 
the unpaid annual fee, fees and interest began to accrue each month thereafter and 
Barclays issued Notice of Arrears letters in August, September, October and November 
2020 requesting he pay the outstanding balance on his account.
Mr A became concerned that Barclays might be reporting the arrears to Credit Reference 
Agencies. He wrote to Barclays again in November 2020.
Barclays wrote to him in December 2020 saying it hadnt reported the arrears to the 
agencies and it also acknowledged the poor service and delays in responding to him and 
credited him Premier account with £25 as a gesture of goodwill.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said the request for the 
annual fee waiver, was just that, a request that was respectfully declined by Barclays and it 
has provided evidence of its response sent in a complaint letter issued in June 2020 to 
inform Mr A of its decision. After Mr A failed to pay the annual fee the charges and fees were 
applied in line with the accounts terms and conditions. The Notice of Sum in Arrears letters 
were issued as per the banks regulatory process, to notify consumers of the outstanding 
amounts and consequences of not clearing these. Whilst she understood why Mr A would 
have been unhappy to receive these letters she thought as they were regulatory letters, they 
arent something that can be omitted. She noted Barclays had reported the account as 
cleared and up to date for each of its monthly reporting. She did acknowledge there had 
been poor service in relation to the delays in Barclays responses and the long wait times 
when trying to get through to the call centres. But she thought the £25 payment it had made 
was fair.
Mr A didnt agree. He said he told Barclays to respond to him by email. He also thinks 
Barclays should have responded before the payment was due and that when it received his 
many emails it should have told him that it had written to him. He also mentions that he has 
received new cards and doesnt understand why given how long his current cards have left 
before they expire. He thinks that the time and effort he has spent trying to resolve this 
makes the £25 credited an insult. He says the inference in a request for a waiver might be 
that the client may not wish to continue membership.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 6 September 2021. In it I said I could understand Mr As 
frustration. It was unfortunate that he didnt receive the letter sent to him by Barclays in June 
2020. Had he done so I thought much of what has followed would have been avoided.
I said I couldnt hold Barclays responsible for him not receiving the letter. But I did think it 
could have responded to his emails to let him know that a letter had been sent and/or that 
his request for a waiver had been declined. I also thought that the length of time Mr A had to 
spend on calls was excessive and given he was telephoning from abroad I could imagine 
this was expensive.
Even though I thought Barclays responded poorly to his request for a waiver I didnt think 
Mr A should have not paid the fee that Barclays was entitled, under the terms and conditions 
of the account, to levy. Although he didnt know that Barclays had declined his request, I 
thought he should only have not paid the fee if it had confirmed to him that it was waiving the 
fee. I therefore didnt think it would be fair to order that the fee or any of the fees and 
charges which followed the fee not being paid, be refunded.
I did think the compensation paid was a little low given the length of time Mr A says he spent 
on the phone to Barclays. I asked Mr A for his call costs, but he hadnt provided them which I 
said was his choice. I said if he wanted to provide them to me following the provisional 
decision he could do so. I thought it would be reasonable for Barclays to pay him a further 
£25 to compensate him for his inconvenience caused by its poor service.
I didnt agree that asking for a waiver of the fee is an implied request to close the account. I 
said if Mr A wanted to close the account, he should have let Barclays know clearly and 
directly. I also didnt think Barclays needed to respond to his request for the fee waiver 
before it was due. I thought it needed to respond within a reasonable time and I thought 
responding in June 2020 was a reasonable time.
As Barclays had confirmed that it hadnt reported the arrears to credit refence agencies I 
didnt think I needed to say anything more about this aspect of the complaint.
Finally, Mr A had asked why Barclays had issued him with new cards. As this wasnt part of 
the original complaint this wasnt usually something, I said I could look. But Barclays had 
agreed for me to consider this. Barclays had explained that it sent out a new card because it 
had concerns the security of the card had been compromised. I said this seemed reasonable 
to me.
Responses to my provisional decision
Barclays accepted the provisional decision.
Mr A stated again that he gave ample time and made substantial efforts for numerous 
officers of Barclays to answer his request for an annual fee waiver. It however permanently 
deprived him of his money, and he finds this unacceptable and continues to question the 
legality of proceeding with charges and fees when such are not justified.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr As strength of feeling about this complaint, but he hasnt said anything new 
in response to my provisional decision and nothing he said has changed my mind. I still think 
what I said in the provisional decision is right and confirm it here now.
I will, however, respond specifically to the points he has repeated. Mr A says he gave 
Barclays ample time to respond to his request for a fee waiver. I think it did respond in good 
time it is just unfortunate that Mr A didnt receive it. I set out in my provisional decision that I 
thought Barclays later response was poor and that is why I increased the compensation to 
Mr A. Whilst I dont think Mr A was wrong to ask for a fee waiver I dont think it was wrong of 
Barclays to decline his request and apply the fee  it is after all what Mr A had agreed to pay 
as part of having the card. If Mr A is unhappy with the fees, he has the option of closing his 
account.
Putting things right
I think Barclays should pay Mr A a further £25 to compensate him for his inconvenience 
caused by its poor service.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr A further £25.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman