DRN-1164839
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr K says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him the PPI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks case. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear that Mr K didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this now 
considering these events occurred over 17 years ago. I say this because Ive 
considered what we know about how Capital One sold PPI over the telephone during 
an activation call around this time. It seems most likely that to get the cover Mr K 
would have had to agree to it and he would have had a choice about doing that or 
not. So it seems that Mr K did choose it and did so knowing he had a choice to do 
so.    
 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr K so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for him. But it did have to make sure Mr K got the information he needed to decide if 
it was right for him. 
 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been  such as details of how much the policy would cost. But based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it seems he was eligible for the policy 
and it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover. And Ive considered that Mr K only had statutory sick pay to rely on if he 
was too ill to work and he told us he had no other means to rely on in that 
circumstance. But, this policy could have paid out for up to 12 months in that event, 
or if Mr K lost his job. So, I think the policy would have been useful to him if 
something went wrong. So, I dont think better information about the PPI and its cost 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint against Capital One (Europe) 
plc. And I make no award against Capital One (Europe) plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2020.
 
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman