DRN-2768031
The complaint
Ms S complains about SN Marketing Services Ltd trading as My PPI Refund (SN) and the 
settlement fee they are charging him following a successful payment protection insurance 
(PPI) refund.
What happened
On 31 July 2019, Mr S instructed SN to complete what he thought was a free PPI check only 
online. Mr S electronically signed a letter of authority (LOA) and a letter of engagement 
(LOE) authorising SN to pursue this against Lender B.
Following this instruction, Mr S received several texts and e-mails from SN asking him to 
complete a PPI questionnaire so they could continue to progress his claim. He also spoke to 
SN over the phone. But Mr S didnt complete these documents as he was no longer 
interested in using SNs services.
But in March 2020, Lender B wrote to both SN and Mr S upholding his PPI claim and 
awarding him a PPI refund. SN then invoiced Mr S for their settlement fee. But Mr S was 
unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr S complained about the settlement fee SN were charging. He didnt think hed authorised 
SN to submit a claim on his behalf as he thought hed only asked them to complete a free 
PPI check. He said hed spoke to Lender B who confirmed they hadnt received any 
documents other than the LOA he signed in July. Mr S thought by not returning the 
additional documents SN had asked for, hed made it clear he didnt want to pursue the 
claim any further. So, he wanted SN to waive the settlement fee they were charging.
SN didnt agree. They thought the LOA and LOE Mr S signed authorised them to submit a 
full PPI claim as hed agreed to the terms and conditions. And they felt these made it clear a 
claim would be submitted if PPI was identified. They thought Lender B had acknowledged 
their authority by providing them with a copy of the PPI offer letter, so they thought they were 
fair to charge a fee. Mr S remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint 
to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought by signing the 
LOA and LOE, Mr S had agreed to the terms and conditions. And he thought these terms 
and conditions made it clear SN would submit a claim and charge a fee if it was successful. 
So, he didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
Mr S didnt agree, and he provided copies of the texts and e-mails he received. He didnt 
think SN made it clear a claim would be submitted anyway. And he said he hadnt received a 
claim pack with the terms and conditions so he was unaware that SN would automatically 
continue to pursue a claim. He also mentioned SNs collection activity, which he thought was 
harassing and unreasonable.
Our investigator considered this additional information but didnt think it changed his initial 
view. He explained SN were unable to provide screenshots of the journey Mr S wouldve 
seen when he signed the LOA and LOE. But, on balance of probability, he thought it was 
likely Mr S wouldve had the opportunity to see the terms and conditions as Mr S had signed 
to say he had. But he asked SN whether they would be willing to reduce Mr Ss fee after 
providing SN with Mr Ss concerns, but SN didnt agree to this. So, our investigator 
maintained his opinion that SN had the necessary authority to pursue the claim and so, were 
fair to charge their settlement fee in line with the terms and conditions. Mr S didnt agree, so 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr S. I dont doubt Mr S 
assumed he was asking SN to complete a free PPI check when he signed the forms in July 
2019. And I appreciate Mr S assumed that, by not responding to SNs request for further 
information, he was preventing them from taking any further action. So, when he received an 
invoice from SN following the refund he received from Lender B, I can understand why hed 
be concerned and confused. And because of this, I can understand why hed question he 
validity of this invoice and dispute it. But for me to say SN should either waive or reduce this 
fee, Id need to be satisfied of one of two things. Either, that SN didnt have the necessary 
authority to pursue a claim on Mr Ss behalf. Or, that they didnt complete any work of value 
that resulted in the successful refund. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive first thought about whether SN had authority to pursue a full claim on Mr Ss behalf. Mr S 
doesnt think he provided SN with this authorisation as he didnt respond to SNs texts and e-
mails asking for further documentation. And he doesnt think the LOA and LOE he signed 
were valid for SN to submit a full claim, as hed only provided an electronic signature. But SN 
think the LOA was valid, as it agreed to the terms and conditions which they felt explained 
they would submit a claim if PPI was identified. And they thought Lender B had deemed the 
LOA valid with the electronic signature, as they sent SN a copy of the offer letter. 
Ive seen the details of Mr Ss sign up process. This showed that the forms Mr S completed 
were presented after Mr S had clicked on a link through another online website. And this link 
was clicked on 31 July 2019, the same day Mr S signed the LOA and LOE. 
Ive seen the forms Mr S signed. And they included his address, e-mail and mobile number 
that Mr S has provided to us. I dont think SN wouldve been able to obtain this information 
without Mr S providing it. So, I think it was Mr S who electronically signed the LOA and LOE. 
And on both documents, I think it was made reasonably clear that by signing those 
documents, Mr S was agreeing to the terms and conditions of that agreement.
The terms and conditions say, If our PPI check indicates that any PPI was mis-sold to you, 
we will commence our claim process and may contact you to discuss the circumstances 
surrounding the sale of the policies. So, when Lender B confirmed to SN that PPI was 
present on Mr Ss account, I think they followed the terms and conditions of the agreement 
by continuing to submit a claim.
I understand Mr S doesnt think hes been provided with a copy of these terms and 
conditions as a claims pack was never sent by SN. But, crucially, before the claims pack was 
sent Mr S had already signed a LOA and LOE saying hed seen the terms and agreed to them. If Mr S hadnt seen the terms and conditions of the account, I wouldve expected him 
to ask SN for a copy before signing. And I cant see that he did.
SN have said the terms and conditions wouldve been available to Mr S when he completed 
the forms online. But, as the PPI deadline has passed for some time, theyre no longer to 
provide a link that shows this journey. I can understand why Mr S feels this unreasonable, 
but I dont think it is as SN would no longer have any use for this link. Without this, Ive had 
to think about what was most likely to have occurred. And, on the balance of probability, I 
think its likely that terms and conditions were available for Mr S to read before he signed the 
documents as this was an obligation for businesses such as SN. And Mr S signed 
documents to say hed seen them. Again, if Mr S hadnt seen them, I wouldve expected him 
to ask for a copy before doing so.
And even if Mr S hadnt seen the terms and conditions of the agreement, the LOE he signed 
says We agree to carry out a PPI check to identify whether PPI has been sold to you. If PPI 
has been sold to you, We also agree to review the circumstances of your case and make a
complaint on your behalf to claim compensation for the mis- selling of your PPI policy. I 
think this makes it reasonably clear that if PPI was located through the check, that SN would 
continue to make a claim. And Im satisfied Mr S saw this, as he signed the document.
Ive also thought about Mr Ss comments regarding the need for a wet signature. And Ive 
looked through the information he found from the British Banking Association (BBA) in 2016. 
And I appreciate there was no reference to electronic signatures in that information. But, 
crucially, that was information for businesses such as Lender B on what they should look for 
in a LOA. It wasnt published for businesses such as SN to follow. And Im satisfied Lender B 
took the LOA they received from SN as valid, as they sent to the offer letter to SN as well as 
Mr S. And they also confirmed to Mr S that was the only LOA theyd received. So, Lender B 
deemed the LOA to be valid even without a wet signature. And this isnt uncommon in the 
industry. If Mr S is unhappy about the way Lender B followed this guidance from the BBA, 
this is something he should raise with them directly.
I can appreciate why Mr S thought a new LOA needed to be provided, as SN asked for 
another one. But this is common practice from businesses such as SN as there are 
instances where businesses such as Lender B will request this information. But in this case, 
a wet signed LOA wasnt required.
Because of the above, Im satisfied SN had the necessary authorisation to pursue a claim on 
Mr Ss behalf after PPI had been identified through the PPI check. I appreciate Mr S didnt 
fully understand the service hed instructed SN to provide but I think the information SN 
provided was reasonable. So, I think they acted fairly when pursuing the claim.
But I also needed to be satisfied SN completed the work that led to the successful refund Mr 
S received. And Ive thought about Mr Ss concerns regarding the request for documents he 
received from SN after he signed the LOA. And I can appreciate why he assumed that theyd 
be unable to proceed if he didnt provide the information. The wording of these e-mails and 
texts suggested the further information was needed for a claim to be successful. And in 
general, claims are more likely to be upheld if a PPI questionnaire is provided. But in this 
case, that wasnt needed, and Lender B decided to uphold the claim without it. 
And in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement, if Mr S didnt want SN to 
continue with a claim, hed need to cancel it. And the terms explain how Mr S could do this, 
and what fees may apply if he did. I cant see any evidence to show Mr S followed this 
cancellation process. And I dont think disengaging with SN was enough to show he actively 
cancelled the agreement. So, although I do understand why he thought hed disengaged 
SNs services at this point, I dont think Mr S did.Lender B issued a copy of the offer letter to SN, as well as Mr S. And Mr S has confirmed 
when he spoke to Lender B, they had a copy of the LOA he signed in July on file. So, Im 
satisfied SN submitted this claim as they wouldve been the only ones with access to this. 
And as the offer letter was sent to SN following Lender Bs receipt of this LOA, Im satisfied 
that the refund Mr B resulted from the claim SN submitted. Although Lender B have 
confirmed they received no further information from SN after the initial LOA, I wouldnt have 
expected them to as Mr S has confirmed he didnt provide anything further to SN. But this 
doesnt mean SN should waive or reduce their fee. Mr S entered into a no win no fee 
agreement, which meant SNs fee would be based on the settlement Mr S received rather 
than the amount of work SN completed. I understand this may feel unfair to Mr S as he feels 
SN did very little work for the amount they are invoicing him for, this follows the agreement 
Mr S entered into. 
As I think the work SN completed led to the refund Mr S received, I think SN are fair to 
charge Mr S for their settlement fee, in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement 
he entered into. And Im satisfied they have on this occasion. So, I dont think SN need to do 
anything more.
Mr S has also complained about the SNs attempts to recover their fees. It is clear that Mr S 
disputed the SNs fees and refused to pay these. As such, I accept that he would find any 
attempts to collect the fee unwanted and unacceptable. However, as I have stated above, 
the SN were entitled to charge their fees, and were therefore entitled to attempt to collect 
them. So, although I can understand why Mr S felt this was unfair, especially when SN 
contacted him for payment when they were aware our service were looking into the 
complaint, I cant say they did anything wrong by doing so. And because of this, I dont think 
they need to do anything more for this aspect of the complaint.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for. And I want to reassure Mr S Ive 
considered all of the points hes raised and the evidence hed provided. I appreciate this 
decision comes some time after the initial refund was provided and its been a difficult and 
concerning time for Mr S. And I recognise the upset this may bring him, as the settlement fee 
remains payable. But I hope the decision goes some way to providing closure for his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about SN Marketing 
Services Ltd trading as My PPI Refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman