DRN-4300519
The complaint
Mr O complains that Lex Autolease Ltd failed to ensure that a faulty tyre was replaced under 
the maintenance contract.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr O was supplied with a car and entered into an agreement with Lex 
Autolease.
In March 2022 Mr O took the car for a service. In the report completed by the garage it was 
noted that the car had a faulty tyre.
Mr O didnt realise that the tyre hadnt been replaced and drove the car for around three 
months until it was identified at the cars MOT in July 2022 that the tyre hadnt been replaced.
Mr O complained to Lex Autolease. He said he was unhappy that the tyre hadnt been 
replaced when it was identified as faulty, or that he hadnt been made aware that the tyre 
hadnt been replaced. 
Lex Autolease accepted that Mr O hadnt been made aware that the tyre hadnt been 
replaced. It offered him £40 compensation for the inconvenience hed suffered.
Mr O declined the compensation on the condition that Lex Autolease took action to prevent 
such a situation occurring in the future.
Mr O referred his complaint to this service because he felt that Lex Autolease had failed to 
acknowledge his condition in its final response and had failed to respond to his follow up 
emails. Mr O said he wants Lex Autolease to demonstrate that it has made changes to its 
procedures so that the situation doesnt occur again.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Lex Autolease had taken steps to 
rectify the mistake and that there was nothing further this service could ask them to do.
Mr O didnt agree. He said the garage had informed Lex Autolease that the tyre was 
dangerous but Lex Autolease and ignored the information and failed to advise him about the 
need to replace the tyre.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr O feels very strongly about this matter. I understand the point hes making 
here, which is that if an issue is identified with a car which isnt going to be rectified by the 
garage, there should be a process in place to ensure that Lex Autolease brings the issue to 
the attention of the customer so that steps can be taken to address it.
In this case, Mr O took the car for a service. The servicing garage identified a faulty tyre and 
marked this as red on the report. Mr O acknowledges that he would have seen the report but 
says he believed that Lex Autolease would have required the garage to address the red item 
under the terms of the maintenance contract. Mr O therefore assumed that the tyre had been 
replaced and continued to drive the car.
I appreciate that Mr O wants Lex Autolease to take steps to change its procedures in these 
circumstances so that similar situations dont occur again. Its important that I explain what 
this service is and isnt able to do in this respect. This service cant comment on Lex 
Autoleases procedures or processes because this is outside of our remit. And this service 
cant require Lex Autolease to change its procedures or processes either. Only the Financial 
Conduct Authority can do that. 
What this service can do is consider whether Lex Autolease have acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances of Mr Os complaint.
Lex Autolease has accepted that a mistake was made. It has told this service that it 
considers the garage to be responsible and has logged a supplier complaint against the 
garage in this respect. Lex Autolease has also offered Mr O compensation to reflect the 
inconvenience he suffered. Ive thought about whether there was anything more Lex 
Autolease could have done to resolve Mr Os complaint, but in the circumstances, I think Lex 
Autolease has acted fairly and reasonably. 
I understand that this isnt the outcome that Mr O was hoping for. But Ive explained why this 
service cant require Lex Autolease to change its procedures or ask it to do anything further 
here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman