DRN-1711576
 
complaint
Mr L says Novaloans Ltd  trading as cash4unow (Nova)  irresponsibly lent to 
him.                           
background
This complaint is about four high-cost short-term loans Nova provided to Mr L between 
September 2017 and December 2018. Mr Ls borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 12/09/2017 22/12/2017 4 £200.00 £72.90
2 12/03/2018 24/08/2018 6 £200.00 £57.41
3 28/08/2018 22/10/2018 6 £700.00 £226.35
4 03/12/2018 25/09/2019 6 £500.00 £153.76
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint as they thought Nova had done enough 
before approving the borrowing to him. Mr L disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans 
review, so the complaint was passed to me. I issued my provisional decision in February 
2020. Heres what I said: 
Nova needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Nova should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Nova was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint. Having done this, Im thinking of partially 
upholding the complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Nova needed to do more when it approved loans 1 to 4. Having 
looked at the circumstances again afresh, I also think that Nova didnt need to do more when 
lending to Mr L for loans 1 and 2 but I do think Nova should have done more before giving 
loans 3 and 4 to Mr L. Ill explain why.
Loans 1 and 2
Nova has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving loans 1 and 2. It 
says it asked Mr L about his employment status and he confirmed he was employed and had 
a monthly income of £2,640. Nova also checked Mr Ls normal monthly outgoings. Mr L 
declared these to be between £561 and £783 per month. Nova also says it searched Mr Ls 
credit file. Ive seen a copy of those results and there werent any recent adverse entries like 
defaults, county court judgements (CCJs) or excessive borrowing from short-term lenders 
recorded at the time each of the loans were taken out.
Mr Ls history of borrowing with this lender was relatively early on  he only borrowed from 
Nova twice over a six-month period. And even though he had to make between four- and 
six-monthly repayments, the highest repayment would have appeared affordable based on 
the information he declared to Nova. And there wasnt anything in the information Mr L 
provided which would have given Nova cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of 
Nova to have relied on what Mr L told it. 
As such I dont intend to uphold Mr Ls complaint about either of these loans.
 
Loans 3 and 4
Having reviewed all the information, I think Nova ought to have realised that Mr L wouldnt 
have been able to make his repayments for loans 3 and 4 sustainably without taking out further lending. I can see Nova has provided its findings from the checks it did prior to 
lending to Mr L. 
The credit check findings show that Mr L already had several outstanding debts including 
other short-term loans as well as longer term ones. He had paid over £1,700 to creditors in 
the month prior to taking out loan 3 and hed paid over £1,200 in the month before taking out 
loan 4. Which was a significant portion of his income.  As well as all of this, there were also 
recent defaults on short-term loans showing. I think if Nova had properly considered Mr Ls 
financial situation and the lending, it would have seen that Mr Ls behaviour indicated that he 
was struggling financially and was likely in a cycle of debt. And as such, it shouldnt have 
lent him loans 3 or 4. 
Both parties confirmed they had received my provisional decision, and no one had anything 
further to add. 
my findings
Ive now reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
As no one had anything more for me to consider, my decision remains the same. I uphold Mr 
Ls complaint about loans 3 and 4 and I ask Nova to put things right as Ive laid out below. 
putting things right  what Nova needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr L paid on loans 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 3 and 4 from Mr Ls credit file;
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nova to take off tax from this interest. Nova must give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision 
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ls complaint. Novaloans Ltd should 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman