DRN-3557925
The complaint
Mr O complains that Starling Bank Limited registered a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database when it closed his account.
What happened
Starling Bank says it received reports that payments made into Mr Os account had been 
fraudulently obtained. Mr O told it that they were money for a laptop from a friend and an 
early Christmas present from a friend. The money had been quickly moved on from his 
account. Starling Bank decided to close the account and register the CIFAS marker.
Our investigator recommended that the marker be removed. He said that the bar for adding 
a marker was a high one. There must be more than mere suspicion. And the guidance from 
CIFAS stated that:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently
report the conduct of the subject to the police.
He said that Starling Bank needed to be able to show that fraudulent funds had been 
transferred to Mr Os account. But also, that he was deliberately dishonest in receiving the 
money and knew it was or might be an illegitimate payment. The marker shouldnt be 
registered against someone who acted unwittingly.
Our investigator said that there had been reports that the money had been obtained 
fraudulently. But he didnt think that Mr O had been shown to be complicit in this. Mr O had 
said that he had allowed someone at college to use his account as that person didnt have 
one. The money had been transferred to a second account in Mr Os name at a different 
financial business. Mr O said that the money was then withdrawn from that account for his 
friend. There were no statements now available for that other account as it was closed too. 
Mr O was only 16 at the time and potentially vulnerable. There was limited information to 
show that he was aware of the nature of the activity and that he was benefitting. It was 
plausible for him to help someone out at college and so it hadnt been proved Mr O was 
complicit in the fraud.
Starling Bank didnt agree. It said that it inferred from the comments of the investigator that it 
was being required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr O was dishonest. It couldnt 
see why it was necessary for funds to be transferred to his other account or why a fraudster 
would want to do this. It hadnt been able to obtain information from Mr Os other bank. 
There was no evidence to support that a friend of Mr O carried this out. And only Mr Os 
phone had been used to access the account which meant he would have had to have 
allowed this person free access to the account.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 10 May 2022. I set out below what I said.
I needed to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Starling 
Bank needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable 
grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that 
the evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
Id taken into account guidance from CIFAS about cases where someone receives 
fraudulent payments into their account like this  acting as a so called money mule. And 
that relevant factors in deciding whether Mr O was deliberately complicit in what happened 
include whether he knew or ought to have known that the money wasnt legitimate, whether 
he may have benefitted from the money by keeping part and whether he has provided 
generic or inconsistent explanations.
The first credits involved were for £60 and £100 from one sender on 6 December 2020. 
These were moved on within two minutes of receipt. And then payments of £110 and £190 
from a different sender on 9 December 2020 which were moved on within three minutes of 
receipt. Starling Bank received reports that these payments had been fraudulently obtained. 
It asked Mr O for his explanation. He stated that he had been expecting the money and gave 
reasons for this. After it told him it would be closing the account he then said that a friend 
had asked to use the account. And that the friend had the card. But Starling Bank noted that 
the payments were made using the app and Mr O had control of this. 
He's given a further explanation to this service. He said that he didnt know the person that 
wanted to use his account that well and that he never saw that person again. He said that 
this person told Mr O in advance to make excuses as it was expected Starling Bank would 
ask about the money. The person was able to use his phone to make the transfer to his 
other account and then withdrew it. He provides no explanation for why that transfer was 
necessary.
I appreciated Mr Os age at the time and that he could have been vulnerable. Theres no 
evidence that he was coerced into receiving the money or allowing his account to be used in 
this way. Or that he wouldnt have been able to understand that the circumstances hes 
described seemed suspicious. 
I was thinking about whether Starling Banks actions were reasonable. On Mr Os version of 
events he was told to give a false explanation of why the payments were being received. 
And that questions were likely to be asked. There is no evidence to support anyone else 
accessing his account. But the account was clearly being monitored closely for these 
fraudulent payments as they were sent on so quickly. There was in my view no explanation 
for why his other account would need to be used in this way. The amount of the payments 
could have been withdrawn in cash by Mr O from his Starling Bank account if these were for 
a friend. The money went to another account of his and he says was withdrawn. So, I 
thought there are grounds to think he may have benefitted. And he now says that he did this 
for someone he seemed hardly to know. I didnt see why he would necessarily have trusted 
that person and hes given no explanation for this.
Having balanced all these factors I considered that Starling Bank had reasonable grounds to 
believe Mr O had been complicit in the fraudulent money received into his account. Its right 
to say that it doesnt have to show this beyond reasonable doubt. Its not impossible that    
Mr O was an unwitting party but on the evidence I didnt think thats most likely here.
Starling Bank says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr O received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Id looked at whether Starling Bank was fair to apply the marker, based 
on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. This essentially means that Starling Bank needs to have enough information to make a formal report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are 
reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere 
suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Os account of events and the evidence Starling Bank has provided, I 
was satisfied that it had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming 
to this view, Id taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr O received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Starling Bank 
at the time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Starling Bank had grounds to believe that Mr O had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
I said I didnt have a reasonable basis to find Starling Bank made a mistake or acted unfairly 
when it closed Mr Os account and registered the marker. I appreciated what he says about 
the impact on him now and his difficulty in opening an account elsewhere.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr O nor Starling Bank made any further comments. That being the case I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional decision for the reasons I set out above.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman