DRN-2530144
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Santander UK Plc hasnt agreed to extend the period for them 
to port their mortgage. They say this is unfair as their purchase was delayed due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. They ask that it refunds the early repayment charge (ERC) they paid.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G sold their property and repaid their mortgage with Santander in January 2020. 
They paid an ERC of about £8,000. Santander said it would refund the ERC if they took out 
a new mortgage with Santander within six months.
Mr and Mrs G were buying a new build property which should have been ready in June 
2020. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic work on the property was delayed. Santander 
extended the deadline for Mr and Mrs G to take out a new mortgage to eight months. 
However, Mr and Mrs G werent able to complete their purchase within this time. 
Mr and Mrs G say these delays were out of their control. They say its unfair for Santander to 
apply the ERC.
Our investigator said Santander had made the ERC and the time in which Mr and Mrs G 
needed to complete their new mortgage in order for it to be refunded clear. It extended this 
in response to the pandemic. The investigator said it acted fairly.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree, saying a two months extension during a pandemic that is still 
ongoing isnt fair. They said Santander offered other types of support to customers to help 
with the impact of the pandemic, and it was unfair for it to refuse a reasonable extension to 
the porting period, given their circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage with Santander in January 2015, recommended by a 
broker. The mortgage product they chose included an ERC. The mortgage offer says the 
ERC applied until 2 April 2020. 
When Mr and Mrs G took out their mortgage with Santander they agreed to the terms, 
including the ERC. Mr and Mrs G repaid their mortgage in January 2020, while the ERC 
applied. I think Santander was entitled, under the terms of the mortgage, to apply the ERC. 
Mr and Mrs G say its unfair for Santander to refuse to refund the ERC. 
First, Mr and Mrs G say they didnt realise the ERC applied until April 2020. They say they 
took out a five-year product and expected it to end when theyd had the mortgage for five 
years. 
Santander provided a copy of the mortgage offer sent to Mr and Mrs G before they took out 
their mortgage in 2015. I think the terms of the ERC, including when it applied, were set out 
clearly. I dont think Santander misled them about this. 
Second, Mr and Mrs G say the delays to their purchase were due to the pandemic and, in 
the circumstances, it would be fair for Santander to extend the deadline for them to take out 
a new mortgage.
As Mr and Mrs G were buying a new property, Santander said it would refund the ERC if 
their new mortgage completed within six months of them redeeming their mortgage. In 
March 2020 it extended this to eight months, in response to the pandemic. This meant Mr 
and Mrs G needed to complete by mid-September 2020. 
Mr and Mrs G had expected their new property to be ready by June 2020. This was delayed 
by about seven months, to January 2021, which they say was due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. I understand how frustrating this must be for Mr and Mrs G. Their purchase was 
delayed, meaning they couldnt move into their new home when theyd expected. And they 
missed the opportunity to have their ERC refunded.
These events were outside Mr and Mrs Gs control. However, these delays werent due to an 
error by Santander. It usually allows customers three months to complete their new 
mortgage. It allowed Mr and Mrs G eight months, which took into account that they were 
buying a new build property and the pandemic. Ultimately, it wasnt Santanders fault they 
didnt complete within this timescale. I dont think it treated Mr and Mrs G unfairly.
I know that Mr and Mrs G will be disappointed. But taking everything into account, I dont 
think its fair to require Santander to refund the ERC to Mr and Mrs G. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman