DRN-2962981
The complaint
Mr S is complaining he wasnt made aware he was taking out a fixed sum loan agreement 
with Specialist Lending Limited to fund an online education course for his children with a 
supplier that I will call E.
What happened
Mr S was looking to arrange some additional tutoring for his children and found E online. He 
contacted E who arranged for one of its salespeople to visit him. He says he was promised 
two hours of free training for his children when the salesperson was there. Mr S enrolled his 
children onto an online course. He paid around £2,376 for the course. He paid a £250 
advanced payment and the remainder was financed through a fixed sum loan agreement 
provided by Specialist Lending. 
Mr S says that around three months later he found the course wasnt addressing his 
childrens needs and they were struggling to keep up with it, with all the homework they were 
getting from school. So he contacted E to look to cancel the course, but E referred him to 
Specialist Lending. Mr S says he spoke to Specialist Lending who referred him back to E. 
Mr S says his children ultimately stopped using the course. He didnt think he should have to 
keep paying for it so he cancelled his direct debit. Special Lending said Mr S had entered 
into a five-year fixed sum loan agreement which couldnt be cancelled after the first 14 days. 
Mr S said he didnt realise he was entering into a loan agreement. He said he was pressured 
into signing the documents and not given time to understand what he was agreeing to. 
E didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint and said hed signed the finance agreement, so it was 
satisfied he was reasonably aware he was taking out a finance agreement. It also said the 
paperwork he signed set out the terms of the loan and the cancellation rights. It further 
highlighted Mr S had hand-signed to confirm he was taking out a finance agreement. It also 
highlighted that hed also hand-signed to say he couldnt cancel after 14 days. 
I issued a provisional decision in July 2021 not upholding this complaint and I said the 
following:
Mr S paid for the course through a fixed sum loan agreement. Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 sets out that in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, Specialist 
Lending is jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier  E. 
Im satisfied those circumstances apply here.
Further to this, section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of making E the 
agent of Specialist Lending during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr S entering 
into the loan agreement, starting from when he was first approached by E. But essentially, 
this means Specialist Lending is responsible for the acts or omissions of E in relation to the 
sale of the loan to Mr S. In other words, Specialist Lending has to stand behind the things E 
said, did, didnt say, or didnt do during the sales process.
Mr S is unhappy he wasnt allowed to cancel the course when his children stopped using it. 
He says he was misled into entering into the course and the finance agreement. And he 
thinks he should have been given a longer trial period. 
Under the terms of the finance, Mr S had the right to withdraw from it within 14 days, but 
after that it was a non-cancellable contract. Mr S says he wouldnt have entered into the 
course had he known hed have to continue to pay for it for five years because he got into 
difficulties with a previous course in the past. He also says he didnt know he was entering 
into a finance agreement. So I think the key issues I have to think about is whether the 
course and finance agreement were misrepresented to him. 
I note Specialist Lending says the primary focus should be on the paperwork Mr S signed. I 
agree that we must take the paperwork into consideration  particularly in assessing whether 
theres a breach of contract or not. But I also need to take into account the salesmans 
responsibilities to provide clear information to enable Mr S to make an informed choice 
before he agreed to enter into the course. And I dont think the finance agreement is 
necessarily always an accurate description of the conversations that were had before the 
contract started. 
Mr S says its unfair that he wasnt allowed to cancel the contract and he thinks he should 
have been given a longer trial period. He thinks its morally wrong that he wasnt given 
longer to decide whether the course was suitable for his children or not. But I also note he 
hand-signed the Customer Clarification and Satisfaction Form. And in this he individually 
acknowledged the following: 
He was taking out a lifetime licence where he had to make 60 monthly payments.
E only gave him 14 days to cancel the contract after the date of sale.
The finance was being paid for through a third-party finance provider.
Mr S has recently told us that he thought he was entering into a subscription service. But Ive 
listened to the telephone call Mr S made when he first raised his complaint about the 
contract. In this telephone call he set out that he thought it was unfair he wasnt given a 
longer trial period. But at no time in this telephone call  or in subsequent correspondence  
did he say he thought it was a monthly contract or that he was told he could cancel the 
contract at any time. 
The contract is clear that Mr S only had 14 days to withdraw from the course. I dont think 
this would be considered an unfair term. And its not my role in this case to assess whether 
its morally fair or not to only provide 14 days to cancel a course. Im not specifically looking 
at the fairness of Es actions. My role in this decision is to assess whether Specialist Lending 
have handled Mr Ss S75 claim fairly. I appreciate Mr S may have thought he had a longer 
time to assess the suitability of the course, especially given what had happened with the 
previous course hed enrolled on. But, under S75, Specialist Lending is only liable where 
Mr S demonstrates theres a breach of contract or misrepresentation by E. And Im not 
persuaded that there is enough to support this. 
I appreciate Mr S is unhappy that he had to continue to pay the finance after his children 
stopped using the course. But Specialist Lending had paid the cost of the course on behalf 
of Mr S and under the terms of the finance agreement, Mr S was required to continue to 
repay the monthly finance payments. So I cant say Specialist Lending acted unfairly in 
requiring Mr S to keep up with his monthly payments. Mr S responded to say he didnt agree with my provisional decision and, in summary, he 
raised the following points:
He wasnt shown the full length of the video which said he only had 14 days to withdraw 
from the finance agreement;
He maintains he would not have made the same mistake twice in entering into a non-
cancellable contract given what happened to him with the HGV course;
He maintains he wasnt told he was taking out a loan;
He said he was given the paperwork to sign when his children were distracted by the 
promise of a free laptop and were enjoying cartoons about the e-learning programme. 
He thinks this is unfair and hypnotising sales tactics;
He thinks, in not upholding this complaint, were allowing E to keep taking advantage of 
innocent consumers;
He said I cant know what happened in the sales meeting. He maintained the salesman 
didnt tell him about the cancellation period, nor that he was taking out a loan with a third 
party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ss additional points and I do understand his strength of feeling in this 
matter and the impact this will have on him and his family.
As Mr S has said, I cant know for certain what happened in the sales meeting, so I have to 
base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened.
I acknowledge Mr S says he wasnt shown the full length of the video or told about the 
cancellation rights. But I similarly cant ignore that he hand-signed the Customer Clarification 
and Satisfaction Form acknowledging the following: 
He was taking out a lifetime licence where he had to make 60 monthly payments.
E only gave him 14 days to cancel the contract after the date of sale.
The finance was being paid for through a third-party finance provider.
So to uphold this complaint I need to be persuaded that E gave Mr S false or misleading 
information which I think would have made him think something different to what he signed. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Ive found the telephone call when Mr S first complained 
about the situation to be particularly persuasive. Mr S had a detailed conversation with the 
call handler at the time, but he didnt raise at any point in this call that he thought it was a 
monthly contract or that he wasnt told he could cancel the contract. I think its likely this 
would have been the primary focus of Mr Ss complaint had he thought it was a monthly 
contract  or if he thought he could cancel at any time.
I appreciate I dont know for certain what was discussed in the sales meeting. And I have 
taken his comments into account about the sales tactics. But I cant ignore that Mr S did 
hand-sign to acknowledge the cancellation rights and that he was taking out a finance 
agreement through a third party. And he hasnt given me enough for me to conclude that the 
salesman gave him false and incorrect information to make him think the situation was 
different to what he was signing.I naturally sympathise with the situation Mr S is in. But I dont have enough for me to 
conclude that the finance agreement was misrepresented to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman