DRN-3809873
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mr and Mrs W hold with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS). Theyre unhappy that RBS hasnt allowed them access to the lowest interest rates 
available over the years. They would like redress for the extra interest they say they have 
overpaid as a result.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so Ill merely summarise them
here.
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage was what is known as The One Account, a product that includes 
various flexible features in addition to the basic mortgage loan. The One Account has a 
bespoke variable interest rate, which was charged until 2021, when Mr and Mrs W 
requested, and were accepted for, a standard mortgage from RBS core range of products, 
on a two-year fixed rate of 1%. 
RBS backdated the switch to earlier in 2021 because Mr and Mrs W had complained theyd 
initially been told, apparently wrongly, that it wasnt allowed without a full affordability 
assessment which they werent confident of passing. However, they think RBS should have 
offered them this when they asked for it several years previously, and so the switch should 
be backdated further still.
RBS didnt uphold the complaint, and when it came to us, our investigator wasnt persuaded 
RBS had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs W asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the FCA.
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides 
instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first observation Id make is that even though Mr and Mrs W may not have used the 
flexible features of The One Account, the mere fact that they had one meant they were in a 
contractual relationship that was very different from that which applies to core mortgages. 
So the change to a core product that gave access to better rates was more than just a 
simple product switch; it required a new contract to replace the existing one.
Its worth pointing out that no borrower is entitled to a lower rate; along with regulatory 
requirements, lenders have to consider context and individual circumstances in all cases. 
They also have their individual lending criteria and appetite for risk. Its not the role of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service to say what those criteria should be, or to second-guess 
lenders judgement on risk. 
RBS had initially said an affordability assessment was needed, but subsequently agreed the 
new mortgage on just a credit check.  Ive noted what Mr and Mrs W have said about why 
they believe a credit check wasnt needed, and what might have happened if theyd failed it. 
However, we dont make findings on what might have happened but didnt. In any event, 
thats not what the outcome of the complaint turns on. It seems to me that there are two 
main issues for me to decide here. They are:
whether RBS did enough to let Mr and Mrs W know that better interest rate deals were 
available and what they needed to do in order to get one; and
whether RBS was obliged to offer Mr and Mrs W a better interest rate deal.
 
On the first question, Mr and Mr W say they first asked about switching to a core product 
around four years previously, making that sometime in 2017. Ill come back to this in a 
moment, but its reasonable to conclude that Mr and Mrs W knew, from around 2017 onward 
but possibly earlier, that better rates were available.
On the second question, Its a matter for a borrower to choose whether or not to apply for a 
new rate, and make the application if they want one  including making sure they know when 
to do so. Here the available evidence is contradictory on when Mr and Mrs W first asked for 
a better rate. Theyve said it was in 2017, but Ive seen RBS contact history and theres 
nothing in it to corroborate that. Mr and Mrs W say thats because RBS isnt willing to look 
through its call records properly, but Im not sure thats a fair criticism.
What RBS has said is that the parameters theyve given for when the call might have 
happened is too wide for a search, but that if Mr and Mrs W can provide evidence of the 
dates of calls having taken place, for example from their phone provider, its willing to look 
again. At the time of writing, it seems Mr and Mrs W havent done that, and thats entirely 
their prerogative. But I think RBS request is reasonable. What that means is that, as things 
stand and based on the evidence before me, Im not able to conclude that Mr and Mrs W 
submitted a formal request for a better rate before 2021. 
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have 
confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on the outcome. I can 
see from their submissions how important this is to Mr and Mrs W. Thats a natural reaction, 
and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as they are here. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome. Having done that, and having considered everything that 
both parties have said and provided, I dont find that RBS has treated Mr and Mrs W unfairly. 
Mr and Mrs W dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
RBS will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court 
might impose, Mr and Mrs Ws right to take legal action against RBS over the subject matter 
of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
 My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, 
which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman