DRN-1188288
 
The complaint
Mr C complains Starling Bank Limited unreasonably refused his request to open a current 
account.
Background
In November 2018 Mr C closed a Starling current account. In March 2019 he tried to open a 
new one. But he found Starling wouldnt allow him to. It said it had a policy that didnt allow, 
those that had closed an account with it, to open a new one for 12 months from the date of 
closure.
Mr C complained. In response Starling said its policy had been explained on its website 
when Mr C had closed his account. It didnt agree with his belief that it wasnt following 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidelines. Mr C wasnt happy with Starlings response. 
So he came to this service. He wants an apology and to be allowed to open a Starling 
account. 
Our Investigator said Starling hadnt acted unfairly. He didnt recommend it do anything 
differently. Mr C didnt accept that. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not making Starling do anything differently.
Mr Cs unhappy about Starlings 12 month policy. But its not this services role to set 
businesses policies for them. Instead we consider if a business has treated its customers, or 
potential customers, fairly. Starling has shown the policy was in place. Its not in dispute that 
Mr C tried to open the new account less than 12 months after closing his old one. So Starling 
cant say it treated him unfairly by not allowing him to open a new one.
The 12 month policy was explained on Starlings website when Mr C closed the account. He 
feels that wasnt enough. He says, for Starling not to allow him to open a new account, the 
policy needed to have been in his old accounts terms and conditions. I dont see why that 
would be necessary.  
Mr C hasnt explained what FCA guidelines he feels Starling has breached. Im not aware 
that it has failed to follow any guidelines or rules. 
Starling has blacklisted him according to Mr C. I havent seen anything that makes me think 
thats happened. Mr C was just unable to open a new account for a period of time. Starling 
seems to have treated him in the same way as any other customer that had recently closed 
an account. So I cant say its treated unfairly or unreasonably.  My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not making Starling Bank Limited do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman