DRN-2723454
The complaint
Mr D complains that Shoosmiths LLP (Shoosmiths) misled him into providing details about 
his finances, when it was trying to arrange an affordable repayment plan with him. And it 
wasnt honest about the reason it needed the information.
For the purposes of this decision:
Mr D is represented on this complaint by his wife, who, Ill refer to as Mrs D.
The debt Shoosmiths was trying to arrange a repayment plan for, was for an account 
owned by another company that Ill refer to as C.
 
What happened
Mr D has an account with C, he fell behind with his payments and in March 2020 C let Mr D 
know it had appointed Shoosmiths to manage the account.
Shoosmiths contacted Mr D and told him C would accept an affordable repayment plan once 
he'd completed an income and expenditure form (IE). Mrs D completed this over the phone, 
on behalf of Mr D, and made an offer to pay £10 per month towards the account. On this 
call, Shoosmiths told Mrs D that Cs expectations were that a minimum payment of £58.97 
would need to be paid monthly, to avoid court action.
Unhappy that Mr D hadnt been told there was a possibility of court action prior to completing 
the IE, Mrs D made a complaint to Shoosmiths. She also added that Mr D had received an 
email directly from C which detailed a different minimum payment.
Shoosmiths put Mr D's offer to C, which it accepted on the basis that it would be reviewed in 
six months with a view to increasing the payments. Mr D still wanted the complaint 
investigated. There were quite a few calls from Mrs D to Shoosmiths during the time it was 
dealing with the complaint, and during one of these calls Shoosmiths promised to update her 
at a specific time and date but it didn't do this. It also incorrectly told her it would be able to 
give her an answer to the complaint much sooner than it did.
Shoosmiths partly upheld Mr D's complaint, in summary:
the reason it doesn't discuss the possibilities of further action prior to completing an 
IE with a customer is to ensure that the IE is correct, and customers don't commit to 
something they can't afford. This is in line with its duty under the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) regulation not to pressurise customers to pay more than they can 
afford based on their financial circumstances.
There was a typographical error regarding the proposed payments between it and C 
which meant correspondence sent to Mr D by C was incorrect.
C had told Shoosmiths that it wanted Mr D's balance cleared over a period of 36 
months to prevent court action. Based on the outstanding balance that would mean a 
minimum payment of £58.97 monthly. It was unclear why C had written to Mr D 
quoting the lower amount of £52.51. But C had now agreed that it would accept this 
as a minimum payment after an initial six-month period when Mr D would pay £10 a 
month as it had previously agreed.
It had not updated Mrs D at the time it had promised to and had incorrectly informed 
her that it would be able to give an answer to Mr D's complaint sooner than it could. 
For this and a typographical error that caused confusion it offered Mr D £50 as an 
apology.
Mr D remained unhappy and so brought his complaint to this service. At the same time, he 
also brought a complaint to this service about C which has been dealt with separately  and 
addressed the inconsistent information C quoted in its correspondence with Mr D.
The investigator that looked into the complaint didn't uphold it. He felt Shoosmiths had acted 
reasonably when completing the IE but agreed there were some service failures but felt the 
£50 it had awarded Mr D was fair in the circumstances. Mr D didn't agree and so the matter 
has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. Mr D has provided this service a lot of 
information for me to consider during the course of their complaint. If Ive not reflected 
something thats been said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt 
deem it relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either 
party, but merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome 
is. This also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, 
to every question raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint. Having done so I 
won't be upholding this complaint, and for broadly the same reasons as the investigator, Ill 
explain.
It's common practice across the industry for businesses to complete an IE with customers 
before agreeing a repayment plan with them. So, I don't think it was unusual for Shoosmiths 
to request Mr D complete one here. I understand Mr D feels strongly that Shoosmiths should 
have told him there was a possibility of court action if he was unable to make the minimum 
payments required to meet Cs 36-month timeline for repayment. But there was no 
requirement for it to do so and its rationale for not doing so is reasonable, in that it didn't 
want Mr D to feel pressured into making an arrangement that was unaffordable for him. And 
had the IE shown that Mr D could afford the minimum payments there would have been no 
need to discuss the potential court action and add more stress to the situation. Given this I 
dont think Shoosmiths has treated Mr D unfairly here.
C had instructed Shoosmiths it would like Mr D's account settled within 36 months. So, I 
don't think it was unreasonable that Shoosmiths couldn't initially agree to the £10 per month 
proposed payments without seeking authority from C first. I'm pleased to see that C has 
since agreed to this, with a review after the initial six-month period.
Shoosmiths has accepted there were some things it could have done better in regard to the 
service it provided here, and offered £50 as compensation for this. This is in line with what 
I'd expect and award in the circumstances. So, I won't be asking it to do anything more here 
to resolve matters for Mr D.
If Shoosmiths has not already paid Mr D the £50, it should do so now.I know Mr D will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Shoosmiths  can do for him.
My final decision
for the reasons set out above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman