DRN-3933296
The complaint
Ms M complains about the settlement offered to her from Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) 
following a claim under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Following a leak at Ms Ms home, she contacted Ageas to make a claim. It sent a surveyor to 
assess the damage and validate the claim. Ageas asked Ms M to obtain quotes for the 
damage caused.  Ms M obtained three quotes the lowest being £4,800 and submitted them 
to Ageas. 
Ageas offered Ms M a settlement figure of £3,393.52, less a policy excess of £250. It said 
the settlement figure included an amount for trace and access. But, as her quotes were for 
all the replacement costs of the flooring, it would not pay for the undamaged flooring costs. 
Ageas relied upon the policy term that stated that it would only cover the cost of the 
damaged items and not those items that were undamaged. 
Ms M was unhappy about this and complained, as she believed that Ageas ought to pay for 
the full cost of the flooring. Ageas maintained its position in its final response. So, as Ms M 
had been given her referral rights, she referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and ultimately upheld it. She said that Ms 
M had explained that the damaged flooring that she had laid was now discontinued. For this 
reason, as there was now a loss of match, it was fair for Ageas to contribute to the 
undamaged flooring. That level of contribution would be 50% as Ms M hadnt quite been put 
back into the position she had been in, before the damage occurred. So, she recommended 
a compromise from both parties, to contribute to the loss. 
Ms M accepted the view, Ageas did not. It said that Ms M had chosen a policy that didnt 
provide cover for matching sets. It explained that there were a few policies on the market 
that allowed for matching sets, with a higher premium.  And as Ms M chose not to have the 
higher level of cover, it wasnt fair for an insurer to have to make a contribution towards the 
undamaged area of flooring. It also questioned, when our services approach had changed, 
that made it fair for insurers to make a 50% contribution towards undamaged items. So, it 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will be upholding Ms Ms complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. And I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this 
decision.
Ms M explained that the flooring that she had laid within the last few years, had been 
discontinued and she wouldnt be able to match the areas of the flooring that werent 
damaged.  
Ageas has relied upon the policy term that provided that cover would be excluded for 
undamaged items that form part of a set. In other words, it would cover the cost of replacing 
the damaged flooring but, the flooring that wasnt damaged, would not be covered. 
Whilst I accept that this isnt an unusual term within policies, our services, approach is that a 
consumer who has suffered from a loss of match, should be compensated for the loss of 
match. We say this as one purpose for insurance policies is to place a consumer back into 
the pre-loss position. Where an item has become discontinued (like in this complaint) then a 
loss of match happens, which means that the consumer is unable to be put back into the 
pre-loss position. 
I understand Ageas comments that the loss of match isnt an insured peril, and that Ms M 
could have paid a higher premium in order to be covered for matching sets. But our 
approach aims to bring about a fair outcome for both parties. In other words, we wouldnt 
think it was fair that Ageas pay for the entire cost of the flooring (both the damaged and 
undamaged parts). And we recognise that Ms M didnt have matching sets cover. So, a fair 
outcome is for Ageas to make a contribution of 50% towards the cost of the undamaged 
flooring. With Ms M paying the other 50%. 
Further, having reviewed the surveyors photographs of the flooring, I note that it was laid in 
a continuous way and covered a few areas. Also, that Ms M said that there were no door 
bars that would delineate areas. Given the amount of flooring that would need to be 
replaced, and that the flooring has now been discontinued, I think that the compensation of 
50% contribution (for the undamaged floor areas) is fair.  
Putting things right
To put matters right, I direct Ageas as outlined below. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. 
Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Ms M 50% towards the cost of replacing the undamaged 
flooring. The figure Ageas Insurance Limited must pay will only include VAT if Ms M is able 
to produce a receipt to show she did replace the undamaged flooring and incurred VAT in 
doing so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman