DRN-2919721
The complaint
Ms G complains that she was given incorrect information by Nationwide Building Society 
about its fraud departments opening hours.
What happened
Ms G says she attempted to buy a watch online with her Nationwide credit card, but the 
transaction was blocked. She says she called Nationwide to remove the block but was told 
she needed to call back the following day as the relevant department was closed. Ms G says 
that information was wrong, and the department is open all day. She says the block was 
eventually removed by which time the watch had sold and the same watch was £800 more 
elsewhere. Ms G would like £800 compensation for her loss.
Nationwide says it was entitled in line with account terms and conditions to place a block on 
the transaction when it had security concerns. But it accepts it gave Ms G the wrong 
information about the opening hours and has apologised. It has also paid Ms G £50 
compensation. Nationwide says it unlikely the transaction could have been successful as it 
would have taken Ms G over her credit limit. And although Ms G paid £400 towards her 
balance, there was no guarantee that payment would have gone through by the time of the 
transaction for the watch.
Ms G brought her complaint to us and made clear she accepts a security block can be 
placed on an account, but her complaint was about the incorrect information. Our 
investigator thought that Nationwides compensation offer didnt go far enough and 
recommended it be increased by £50. The investigator didnt think that Ms G had suffered a 
loss as she didnt buy the watch.
Nationwide has agreed to increase its compensation offer.
Ms G maintains she made a loss as a result of what took place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to a similar overall view to that of the investigator. I also make 
clear that Im satisfied that Nationwide is entitled in line with account terms and conditions to 
block or restrict a transaction. I appreciate that Ms G appears to accept that is the case.
There is no question here that Ms G was given incorrect information by Nationwide. I have 
no doubt that Ms G was caused frustration and inconvenience by that incorrect information 
and spent some time trying to sort matters out. But Im satisfied Nationwide has fairly 
apologised for its mistake.
The key issue is the level of compensation. I appreciate Ms G says she suffered a loss of 
about £800. But I dont think Ms G did suffer a loss as she didnt buy the watch at a higher 
price. I also think it unclear that even if the block had been removed that Ms G would have 
been able to have bought the watch using her Nationwide credit card account. I say that as 
Ms Gs credit limit would have been exceeded and there was no guarantee the payment of 
£400 she made, would have allowed the watch transaction to go through. And there would 
have been no guarantee of the time the block would have been removed even if Ms G had 
spoken to the correct department before she did. The watch I can see was sold some hours 
after the block was applied.
Overall, Im satisfied that Nationwide has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer in 
total of £100. I think that offer fairly reflects the level of Nationwides mistake and that it was 
sorted out within a short period of time. I have made clear that I cant award the £800 
compensation for the loss Ms G says she suffered. 
Putting things right
Nationwide should pay further £50 compensation which its agreed to do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Nationwide Building Society 
to pay Ms G £50 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman