DRN-4320510
The complaint
Mrs E has complained that Monument Life Insurance Dac has cancelled her mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy that provided cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
What happened
Monument wrote to her in March 2023 informing her that the policy would be cancelled in 
June 2023. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint because Monument had made a business 
decision to withdraw this policy and had provided Mrs E with sufficient notice of the 
cancellation, in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Mrs E disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monument stopped making the policy available to new customers in 2012 and so it was only 
held by existing customers who had taken it out before then and who had continued to 
renew it on an annual basis. Monument has now taken the decision to withdraw this product 
altogether.
Monument is entitled to take a view on whether it wishes to continue to offer certain products 
and this service would not normally involve itself in the commercial decisions of a business 
in deciding to offer or withdraw particular products. Im only looking at whether Monument 
has acted fairly and reasonably in the way that it has undertaken the cancellation.
Under the terms of the policy, it states that Monument must give 30 days advance notice of 
the termination of the policy. Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that it did this.
Mrs E says that Monument has been acting on behalf of her mortgage lender who has 
requested that the policies be cancelled. Monument is the underwriter of the PPI and it owns 
the portfolio of policies that are being withdrawn. The mortgage lender was acting as the 
distributor and seller of the policies. There is clearly a relationship between Monument and 
the lender and Monument says the decision was made in conjunction with the lender. But Im 
satisfied that it was ultimately Monuments decision to cancel the policies. Therefore, this 
complaint is correctly set up against Monument.
The cancellation is particularly problematic for Mrs E because, since taking out the policy in 
2006, she now has health conditions that would be classed as pre-existing if she were to 
take out new cover with an alternative provider. 
Mrs Es mortgage still has a number of years to run and I understand that she now feels 
vulnerable without insurance to cover her existing health conditions. I have a great deal of 
sympathy for her situation. But Monument hasnt singled her out. It has cancelled the 
policies of all the remaining policyholders, in accordance with the terms and conditions. I 
appreciate the impact for Mrs E will potentially be greater than for others. However, as it 
applied the withdrawal across all of its customers, Im unable to conclude that it has treated 
her unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman