DRN-3612147
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined his claim and added an exclusion to 
his group policy. 
What happened
Mr K has private medical insurance with Aviva. He claimed on his policy, but the claim was 
declined and an exclusion was added to his policy, which Mr K said was unfair. 
Aviva said that whilst investigating Mr Ks claim, it discovered information about Mr Ks 
medical history that it wasnt previously aware of when the policy was taken out back in 
2018. It said that had it known Mr K had treatment for an aortic aneurysm the year before the 
policy was incepted, then it wouldve applied the exclusion back then  which is why it was 
added later after he made the claim. 
Our investigator said Aviva hadnt done anything wrong. He said that Mr Ks medical history 
was misrepresented. He didnt think Mr K intentionally withheld this information, rather, he 
thought it was a careless misrepresentation. He highlighted the rules set out under CIDRA  
which is designed to fairly assess this type of complaint. He thought Aviva had applied the 
rules correctly and so didnt ask it to do anything more in respect of Mr Ks complaint. 
But Mr K disagreed. In summary, he said that he indicated on the application form that hed 
had problems with his heart previously and that Aviva should have followed this up with him 
directly. He also said that had he been aware that Aviva wouldve added an exclusion to the 
policy for his heart problems, then he wouldve stayed with his previous provider where he 
wouldve continued to be covered. And so, its for me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. I say that because I also agree with our 
investigator that Aviva hasnt treated Mr K unfairly. I say that because Im satisfied Mr K 
misrepresented his medical history, and therefore Aviva is entitled to adjust the policy 
accordingly and in line with the relevant industry rules. Ill explain why. 
The application completed in 2018 asked if;
you are aware of any person to be covered by this application who has received treatment 
or advice relating toany type of heart or circulatory condition in the last two years?
The answer given to this question was yes however, there was no further explanation given 
by Mr K about what the condition was. There was a separate space for him to give further 
information about the condition, however, I understand Mr K didnt realise this and so 
nothing more was provided at that time. 
The policy was sold on an advised basis, and so whilst Im considering this complaint about 
Aviva declining the claim and adding an exclusion to the policy, I cannot comment on what 
happened during the sales process. This would need to be raised separately with the broker. 
In any event, Aviva realised there was no further detail provided in relation to the question 
asked and so it went back to the broker to find out more information. This is what Id have 
expected it to do given this was an advised sale and the application came from the broker. 
The issue here is that the broker didnt disclose any information about the aneurysm Mr K 
suffered with the year before. Its unclear why that was the case, and Im not going to 
comment on why that mightve been as thats related to the sale of the policy and not Avivas 
actions. But the broker told Aviva the reason Mr K gave a positive response to the question 
was because he suffered with hypercholesterolemia  which was true. But he failed to 
disclose any information about the aneurysm. Im satisfied this was a careless mistake, 
rather than a deliberate attempt to mislead the insurer, but Im also satisfied that had it 
known about that at the time, then it wouldnt have offered cover for anything related to that 
condition. And thats why I think its fair that Aviva apply the exclusion retrospectively.
Mr Ks made arguments about whether Aviva shouldve followed up with him directly about 
the answers he gave within the application, but Im not persuaded it needed to do this 
because the policy was sold by a broker. And as it was an advised sale, its not unusual for 
the insurer to go back to the broker directly, rather than the applicant  which is what 
happened here. 
So, because a qualifying misrepresentation was made, Aviva is entitled to rely on the rules 
set out by CIDRA and retrospectively apply the medical exclusion in the way that it has. Its 
for these reasons I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint and Aviva doesnt need to take any action 
here.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman