DRN-3187326
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about the way that Amtrust Europe Limited has dealt with their
Residential Property Owner insurance claim for subsidence at their let property.
What happened
In September 2018 Mr and Mrs Ds tenants reported sudden cracking of their property.
Mr and Mrs D made a claim to Amtrust who appointed a loss adjuster (W) to inspect the
property. After carrying out a site investigation, W produced a preliminary report advising
that they thought the cracking was due to the long hot summer, nearby vegetation, and the
shrinking of the clay soil. They said the cracks should close up and that it was mainly
cosmetic damage. They advised removal or cutting back of nearby vegetation. They also
advised the removal of a brick archway which was in a dangerous state. W revisited the
property in October 2018 and confirmed their original view. Mr and Mrs D arranged for the
removal of vegetation in November 2018. W reattended the property in January and April
2019. They didnt carry out any scientific monitoring of the cracks, instead relying on their
photographs and site notes.
In April 2019 W advised that there had been clear crack closure which fully confirmed their
original conclusions and recommendations. They asked Mr and Mrs D to obtain quotations
for the repairs.
Mr and Mrs D werent happy with the fact that no site investigations or monitoring had taken
place. They also advised that the cracking was in some parts widening, though W advised
that this was to be expected. Mr and Mrs D commissioned their own reports from a
consulting engineer and drainage and soil reports. The engineer reported in December
2019. His main conclusions after reviewing the reports were that the property had continued
cracking after April 2019. And that vegetation removed so far was unlikely to have been the
cause of the subsidence, and that the drains were leaking and were blocked. The engineer
recommended that repairs of the drains should be carried out. He noted that the presence of
an oak tree on nearby land owned by the borough council could well be implicated and
recommended an approach to the council. He recommended further monitoring and as
necessary subsidence repairs including foundation strengthening.
From July 2019 Amtrust refused to renew the policy with subsidence cover, so Mr and Mrs D 
went elsewhere to obtain cover. They werent able to get cover for subsidence.
On being presented with the reports in June 2020 W advised that Mr and Mrs D hadnt told
them the property was suffering from further cracking in summer 2019. Amtrust advised in its
final response letter of 29 September 2020 that the drain repairs wouldnt be covered under
the policy as the damage was discovered after the policy expired. It also wouldnt cover
Mr and Mrs Ds experts fees nor the cost of removing the vegetation. Mr and Mrs D also
claimed for loss of rent, but Amtrust wouldnt pay this, setting out that it didnt believe the
property couldnt be re-let. However it agreed that further scientific monitoring could take
place from September 2020.
On referral to this service our investigator upheld the complaint and made various
recommendations. As a result Amtrust agreed to reinstate subsidence cover from the 2019
renewal, and to pay the cost of removal of the vegetation, and of the archway.
Our investigator further said that Amtrust should pay the cost of any reports Mr and Mrs D
had paid for, including but not limited to the cost of monitoring the property. He further said
that Amtrust should reassess the claim for loss of rent on the basis that it was reasonable to
say the property couldnt be let out. He said that Mr and Mrs D should refer any issue
concerning the drains to their new insurer. He didnt think Amtrust should pay for their
increase in premium, as they had chosen to move their insurance, or for their utility costs for
the unoccupied property. He further said that Amtrust should pay £1,500 compensation.
Amtrust believes it shouldnt be liable for the drainage repairs or the cost of the report since
these are not implicated in the subsidence. It hasnt commented on the compensation, nor
on the cost of the other reports.
Mr and Mrs D have pointed out that they didnt make a choice to move insurers. Amtrust
simply refused to renew their insurance. Amtrust has since advised that it cant offer
subsidence cover while there isnt an active policy with it, but if Mr and Mrs D wish to insure
with it at the next renewal, it would include subsidence cover.
I issued a provisional decision setting out what Amtrust should do, moving forwards. In 
essence in addition to the investigators proposals I said that Amtrust should honour any 
subsidence claim up until the renewal after the repairs are completed, and pay any 
difference in premium caused by Mr and Mrs D having to take out a new policy.
Amtrusts objection to my provisional decision is based on its assertion that it didnt remove 
subsidence cover so Mr and Mrs D had chosen to move their insurance cover. It is prepared 
to offer subsidence cover but can only do so if Mr and Mrs D have an active policy with it.
Mr and Mrs D commented on my provisional findings as follows:
The further monitoring report, recently carried out, should be considered, as they are 
intrinsically linked.
They received confirmation from Amtrust that their subsidence cover was excluded on 
renewal in 2019, and that it wasnt offering renewal.
They believe the policy covers them for the employment of their own appointed engineer. 
In light of their experience with Amtrust they have no faith that W will be able to deal with 
the repairs properly.
They would like my comments on how to progress the future repairs with Amtrust.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
scope of this decision
In this decision I am considering matters only up until Amtrusts final response letter of
29 September 2020. Whilst I appreciate that Mr and Mrs D want to raise further issues they
have with the ongoing monitoring of the property, Amtrust has to be given the opportunity torespond to further complaints. I understand that a further complaint file has been opened in
that respect.
handling of the claim
Ws diagnosis was that in view of:
the recent dry weather
the time frame over which the damage is reported to have occurred
the fact that shrinkable clay sub-soils are prevalent in the area and they had dealt with a
large number of such cases in the area
the close proximity of the vegetation to the property
the fissures in the garden due to the shrinking of clay
all the indications were that this was likely to be a clay sub-soil shrinkage problem.
They opted not to carry out any scientific monitoring, but rather to record and photograph the
original cracking and to follow that up with periodic visits. No site investigations of the soil,
foundations or drains took place. Ws follow-up visits were in November 2018 and January
and April 2019. Following the April visit, W concluded that their original observations were
correct and that the cracks had closed up. They recommended proceeding with the repairs.
The problem with Ws conclusions is that they were based on a presumption that the cracks
had developed following the hot summer. The cracks were quite serious in places and some
of the doors wouldnt open properly and the windows had bowed. Any observations were not
followed through into the summer, when the cracks might be expected to widen. And I note
that this was the case. And although W said that they should have been told about this at the
time, if they had carried out proper monitoring and followed it through the year, this would
have been picked up at the time. Mr and Mrs D were dissatisfied with what W had told them
and I think justifiably so.
Ws failure to carry out proper site investigations failed to pick up on two issues  the drains,
which were blocked and leaking and the oak tree which wasnt mentioned when discussing
the removal of vegetation. From the reports it appears that this was more likely to be
implicated than the vegetation actually removed.
So I think that Amtrust should pay Mr and Mrs Ds costs of the engineer who reported in
December 2019. It should also pay the costs of the ancillary reports  soil and tree
investigation and the cost of the drain reports, together with interest from the date of
payment of those reports until reimbursement. In respect of the drains, regardless of whether
they can now be linked to the subsidence I think it would have been normal practice to carry
out such investigations. This is especially the case here, where the brick arch, which was
immediately over the drain run, was collapsing.
drains
As Ive said, Amtrust must pay for the investigation reports here. I dont think, at least at the
time of the September 2020 final response letter, that it had been established whether the
drains were causing or were linked to the subsidence. Certainly it cant be discounted.
Mr and Mrs D had accidental damage cover on their policy and notwithstanding when it was
discovered I think they were on cover at the time the damage occurred. So Amtrust should
consider the cost of the repairs to the drains. It may be that it has now been possible to link
the drains to the subsidence in which case it should consider paying the cost under the
subsidence cover in the policy. Otherwise it should do so under the accidental damage cover
in the policy.insurance renewal
As I understand it, Mr and Mrs Ds policy expired at the end of July 2019. And they were
refused renewal by Amtrust, as the property had become unoccupied. Notwithstanding that
the ABI agreement on continuation of subsidence cover technically doesnt apply, the claim
hadnt closed. Mr and Mrs D had contacted W in March 2019 to advise them they had got
reports and shared those reports with W in June 2019, before the policy had expired. So I
think Amtrust was wrong to refuse to renew.
As to reinstatement of subsidence cover I think the position is complicated. Amtrust while
willing to reinstate subsidence cover cant do so on a standalone basis. This would mean
that Mr and Mrs D would have to take out a new policy with Amtrust who would then give
them subsidence cover. If their policy expires in July, this would mean they would have been
without cover for three years. If Mr and Mrs D dont want to do that then I propose that
Amtrust agree to honour any claim for subsidence at least from the 2019 renewal until the
renewal after the subsidence repairs are completed. At that stage Amtrust should consider
whether it will renew the subsidence cover. I should emphasise that I havent formed a view
about that.
As Mr and Mrs D were forced to buy that cover elsewhere, at greater expense, Amtrust
should pay to them the increase in policy cost. It should do this by calculating the cost of the
policy it would have provided from July 2019. It cant take into account the continuing claim.
It should then refund the difference between that and what Mr and Mrs D have had to pay for
three years from the 2019 renewal.
loss of rent
The policy says loss of rent is payable: if the buildings become unoccupied or partly
unoccupied and cannot be let out.
In support of their view that the property couldnt be let out following the tenants leaving in
September Mr and Mrs D have produced a letter from the manging agent who let the
property. This says, it would have been at best, irresponsible and at worst, unlawful to
suggest a further Letting of the property until the cause and extent had been investigated
and as appropriate, remedied.
As the policy provides cover when the property cannot be let out, then I think it reasonable to
rely on the expertise of letting agents who should be expected to know if, in their view, a
property cannot be let out. And as the agents expert view in this respect is that it cannot,
then I think it reasonable that Amtrust should pay the loss of rent from the date the tenants
left until the date of the final response letter. It should add interest on each payment from the
dates each payment became due until reimbursement. This doesnt mean that further loss of
rent might not become payable  Amtrust will have to consider that at the time.
utility/council tax bills
I think Amtrust is responsible for at least a years delay in the claim being dealt with. So,
notwithstanding that the policy doesnt allow for such expenses, it should pay 12 months
gas, electric and water bills (as appropriate) and whatever council tax was actually incurred
during the first twelve months of the claim. Again it should add interest from the date the
payment(s) were made until reimbursement.
travelMr and Mrs D claim the cost of travel from their home to the let property, to deal with the
various experts. I think this was a normal part of the claim and as such isnt recoverable
under the policy.
cost of employing an engineer going forwards
I note Mr and Mrs D claim the cost of appointing their own engineer to oversee the
subsidence claim, and Amtrust has to date not agreed to this. Mr and Mrs D say they are
entitled to do this under the terms of the policy follows:
The Sums Insured for Buildings include an amount in respect of Architects, Surveyors,
Legal and Consulting Engineers fees other than where an item covering such fees is
specifically shown in the Schedule.
Cover applies only to those fees necessarily and reasonably incurred in consequence of
Damage, in the reinstatement or repair of Property insured.
Such fees will be covered where reasonably and necessarily incurred. But it doesnt mean
the policyholder can go out and appoint an expert of their own to deal with the claim, unless
they are willing to fund that themselves or the insurer agrees to it. In such a claim, if the
repairs are being arranged by the insurer then it will appoint its own experts as necessary. If
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with this they could either seek a cash settlement to arrange their
own repairs and appoint their own expert, or reach an agreement with Amtrust. Its not
generally considered advisable in the case of subsidence repairs for the policyholder to
arrange to carry out their own repairs as there would then be limited protection if the repairs
arent carried out satisfactorily.
future repairs
I understand that Mr and Mrs D want some assurance that the repairs will be carried out
satisfactorily and that if theyre without subsidence cover there is no possibility of there being
no further subsidence. Regrettably I cant direct Amtrust on how to handle the claim, nor
instruct it on any guarantees. If it carries out the repairs the general expectation is that they
will be lasting and effective. But how the repairs are carried out and what repairs are needed
is a matter for the various experts involved to assess.
compensation
I think Amtrusts failure to act in the early stages of this claim prolonged the matter. My view
is that if it had carried out the necessary site investigations and monitoring its likely that the
repairs could have been under way before the March 2020 lockdown. And while nobody
could have anticipated that, nevertheless it is a factor to consider. Also Mr and Mrs D have
been unable to rent out the property for much longer than necessary.
I take into account that Mr and Mrs D will be reimbursed a lot of their expenses but I think it
reasonable that compensation of £1,500, as assessed by our investigator, should be paid.
In respect of the further monitoring, unfortunately for reasons Ive set out above, I cant make 
any findings about that. I dont think it changes the outcome of this decision.
On the question of insurance renewal, Amtrust now asserts, in face of the evidence from its 
file, that it didnt exclude subsidence cover at renewal in July 2019. I quote the following from 
its final response letter to Mr and Mrs D of 29 September 2020:Subsidence Peril Exclusion
I have spoken to the policy underwriters who have confirmed that the peril was excluded due 
to the loss being prior to renewal. They determined whilst this was still active at renewal, we 
would exclude this until the claim had closed and re-review at the following renewal of your 
policy. This is our standard practice for flood or subsidence in this case. The exclusion 
applied had no bearing on the specific information regarding the damage and was applied
separately to your claim and the findings presented by LA.
I understand that Amtrust refused to renew because the property was no longer tenanted. 
That was what forced Mr and Mrs D to look elsewhere. In an email to W of 19 July 2019 
Mrs D said:
As we discussed, we are currently having a problem with getting continual insurance with 
our property from Amtrust. On speaking with our insurance broker..they informed us that 
they could not get continual cover for our property from Amtrust because they only deal with 
rented accommodation, and not properties that are under normal use. To this end, we asked 
if they could find an alternative insurance company to provide the necessary cover but they 
have informed us that this would not be possible considering the issue of 'subsidence' i.e. 
they could get us cover for all other 'Standard Perils' but NOT subsidence.
Ws response of 2 August 2019 (the Amtrust policy having expired on 31 July) was:
I refer to the emails below and confirm having heard back from the claims department at 
your insurance company, but I am afraid they have said that future insurance is beyond their 
control and this is something that you will need to discuss with your broker or alternative 
providers.
On that basis Mr and Mrs D were in my view forced to go elsewhere and it is for that reason 
that I stand by my view that Amtrust should pay the difference in the excess premiums 
incurred.
It was only after our investigator set out his view that Amtrust agreed to provide subsidence 
cover from the 2019 renewal. This has obviously caused complications as Amtrust takes the 
view that it cant provide that cover without a policy being in force. But the difficulty is entirely 
of Amtrusts making, due in my view, to its unreasonable insistence on excluding subsidence 
cover while the claim was still running. So its for Amtrust to provide the appropriate remedy. 
I assume that Mr and Mrs D dont want to cancel their current policy and take out a new 
policy with Amtrust.
Amtrust should cover any new claim for subsidence from the July 2019 renewal until the 
renewal after the repairs are completed, as if had a policy in force and according to the 
terms of the policy which expired in July 2019. Obviously any such claim would need to be 
investigated and dealt with by Amtrust as it would any other claim.
In respect of the cost of an engineer going forwards, I understand Mr and Mrs Ds misgivings 
about Amtrust appointing its own experts. However Im not persuaded that, on present 
evidence, this is a case where Amtrust should pay for Mr and Mrs Ds choice of engineer. Up 
until September 2020 no such repairs had been agreed upon and it is in my view reasonable 
for Amtrust to decide, in accordance with the policy terms how to progress any repairs.
As for how those repairs will be carried out, I refer to my above comments on future repairs. 
This service cant carry out claims handling. We provide an alternative dispute resolution 
service. Our function is to try to resolve informally disputes between consumers and 
businesses.In respect of my other provisional findings, they havent been challenged. So all my findings 
as set out above are now final and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
Amtrust should:
pay Mr and Mrs Ds costs of the engineer who reported in December 2019.
pay the costs of the ancillary reports  soil and tree investigation and the cost of the
drain survey and reports.
pay one years utility bills and any council tax payable on the property from the date the
tenants left the property.
in respect of the above three matters, pay simple interest* of 8% per year from the dates
of payment of the respective invoices (which Mr and Mrs D should provide) until 
payment.
reconsider payment for the repair of the drains
pay, for three years from the 2019 renewal the difference in cost between Mr and
Mrs Ds new policy and the policy it would have issued to them, had it not expired.
consider any claim for subsidence by Mr and Mrs D for the period from July
2019 until the renewal after the repairs are completed, as if a policy covering subsidence 
remained in place. After which to consider whether it will offer subsidence cover.
pay Mr and Mrs Ds claim for loss of rent from the date the tenants left the property until
29 September 2020, and add simple interest* of 8% per year from the dates each
payment became due until payment.
pay £1,500 compensation.
*Amtrust Europe Limited is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any
interest paid. Should Mr and Mrs D request it, it should provide them with a certificate
showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, they can reclaim it.
My final decision
I require Amtrust Europe Limited to provide the remedy set out under Putting
things right above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2022. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman