DRN-1573897
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didnt actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple. 
Mrs E says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
 
What happened
Mrs E took out the PPI policy when she opened a store card account in a shop in 2000.
The policy covered Mrs Es monthly payments under the credit agreement if shed been 
unable to work because of injury or sickness, or if shed lost her job. It also included some 
purchase and price protection cover and life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint was passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Es case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Es complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mrs Es application for the store card. It includes a short section 
on Account Cover (a form of PPI), with instructions only to sign if the applicant 
required the cover. It says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with Account 
Cover, and it continues Please debit my Account with the relevant monthly 
premiums until further notice. Theres a space to sign. Mrs E signed specifically to 
indicate that she wished to take the cover, in addition to signing the form overall.
 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Mrs E would have realised that the 
PPI wasnt compulsory. And I think she decided to take the PPI, knowing that she 
had a choice, although I can understand how she may no longer remember this, so 
many years later.
 AXA didnt advise Mrs E to take out the policy. This means it didnt have to check if it 
was suitable for her. But it did need to make sure it gave Mrs E enough information to 
enable her to decide for herself if she wanted PPI, knowing what alternative means 
shed have had of making her monthly repayments if she was unable to work.
 
Ive borne in mind that Mrs E told us that shed have been entitled to at least six 
months pay from her employer if shed been off sick.  But if shed made a successful 
claim on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have paid a 
monthly benefit 15% of what she owed on her store card. And it would have done this 
each month until her credit agreement ended, or she returned to work, or the 
outstanding balance at time of her claim had been repaid- whichever was the 
earliest. So it would potentially have covered her for longer than shed have been 
entitled to sick pay for. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any 
payments Mrs E received from her employer. So she could have used those to cover 
other day-to-day expenses. 
 
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have been useful to Mrs E, 
especially as shes told us that aside from the payments shed have received from 
her employer, she didnt have any other means she could have used to make her 
monthly credit card repayments if she was off sick, or if shed lost her job.
 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. Ive also borne in mind that shes told us she wouldnt have 
wanted to pay extra for something she didnt require. But Im satisfied that Mrs E 
chose to take out the PPI - so it looks as if she wanted this type of cover, even if 
shes understandably forgotten that now, so long after the event. She was eligible for 
the policy, and she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things it 
didnt cover (for example, provisions regarding unusual working arrangements or 
existing medical conditions). The store card application form made it clear that 
monthly premiums would be payable for the PPI. And Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that the policy was unaffordable for Mrs E. So taking everything into account, Im not 
convinced that better information about the PPI would have put Mrs E off taking it 
out. 
 
It follows that I dont think Mrs E has lost out as a result of anything AXA may have 
done wrong.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman