DRN-3482373
The complaint
Mr G has complained about his car insurance being cancelled. The cancellation was put in 
effect by the broker that administers the policy. The policy is provided by the insurer 
Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited. The cancellation was done whilst the broker was 
trying to establish some details from Mr G in respect of the risk the insurer was offering 
cover for. As such this complaint has been set up, and considered, against Markerstudy, 
rather than the broker. 
What happened
Mr G arranged cover via a broker with Markerstudy. He gave his occupation as a joiner. But 
part way through the policy year, in December 2020 Mr G made a claim to Markerstudy and 
it discovered that his job role had changed. It thought he was now working as a sales 
assistant. The broker later told Mr G it was asked by Markerstudy to find out more about this 
job such as the type of business Mr G was selling for. The broker though was unable to 
contact Mr G. And whilst Markerstudy advised the broker on 5 February 2021 that the policy 
could just be changed to reflect Mr G working as a sales assistant, on 9 February 2021 the 
broker cancelled the policy.
Mr G was unaware of the cancellation though. He continued to drive and at the end of 
March 2021 was involved in an accident. He called the broker to make a claim only to be told 
he had no cover. When the cancellation was explained to him, Mr G said his job involved 
delivery of goods, that the broker may have taken his occupation details down incorrectly 
during the December claim when he had likely said he was a drivers assistant. He said he 
thought his occupation if correctly recorded wouldnt have caused the policy to be cancelled 
 unlike if the record showed him as a sales assistant. He also felt that the broker had not 
made adequate attempts to contact him; either to validate his occupation details or 
communicate the cancellation. 
The broker said it had needed to get in touch with Mr G. And had done all it could to do so  
using the contact mobile number and email address registered on his file to send messages 
to. Although it acknowledged that its system hadnt properly updated a change Mr G had 
made to the mobile phone number to be used. Overall it noted that Mr G hadnt contacted it 
to advise of his change of occupation so it felt the policy had been cancelled fairly. 
When Mr G complained to this service our investigator asked Markerstudy for comment. It 
confirmed that the occupation of drivers mate, which is how it would classify drivers 
assistant is an acceptable occupation to it. In other words it wouldnt have affected Mr Gs 
cover if he had called and updated his occupation detail. But Markerstudy also said it felt the 
broker had acted correctly to cancel the policy because the policy required Mr G to 
cooperate with investigations and he hadnt responded to its enquiries. So Markerstudy 
didnt think the position Mr G had found himself in, in March 2021, when he had an accident 
whilst uninsured, was due to any fault of its. 
Mr G remained unhappy. His complaint was passed to me for consideration. I felt it should 
be upheld. So I issued a provisional decision to both parties explaining my views. My 
provisional findings were:
Markerstudy being liable
I know that Mr G feels the broker failed him in a number of ways. But the main issue here is 
should the policy have been cancelled. And I understand that Markerstudy has accepted that 
it has ultimate liability for the cancellation the broker affected. That is even though the broker 
did not do this under any direct, specific instruction from it. I think that is correct. In short, 
Markerstudy is the insurer that bears the risk for the cover in place (which the broker 
administers). And if the broker is trying to gain detail about an aspect of the risk Mr G 
presents, so that Markerstudy can confirm or deny that is a risk which is acceptable to it  
then anything done by the broker in that respect is done under the authority of Markerstudy. 
So if the broker acts unfairly or unreasonably in any way when carrying out that work, that 
failure lands at Markerstudys door.
cancelling the cover
Markerstudy has pointed out that it never asked for the policy to be cancelled. The risk Mr G 
presented as either a joiner, sales assistant or drivers mate, was acceptable to it. I also see 
that whilst Markerstudy had asked the broker to enquire about the sales assistant role it had 
believed Mr G was carrying out, it had told the broker on 5 February to just amend the cover. 
That means that as of 5 February 2021 the broker no longer needed to establish contact with 
Mr G to discuss his job role. The broker then should have acted as directed by Markerstudy 
 but it did not do so. Rather the broker acted unreasonably by further trying to establish 
contact with Mr G to discuss the now moot occupation point on 8 February 2021. And, with 
this being unsuccessful, allowing the policy to cancel on 9 February (in line with notice given 
on 1 February 2021). 
Now, strictly speaking, the policy does require Mr G to cooperate. And, strictly speaking, he 
did not do so. But I dont think I need to get into why Mr G did not respond to the contact 
attempts made by the broker. This service always expects insurers and their agents to use 
any right to cancel fairly and reasonably. I cannot reasonably say its fair for a policy to be 
cancelled because contact was not made to discuss a point that was moot and had no 
bearing on the cover in place. Cancellation in this situation  where an established policy 
has undergone no material change in risk and where the initial need for further detail, which 
instigated the attempt to contact the policyholder in the first place, had fallen away  feels 
harsh. Following Markerstudys acceptance on 5 February, it was no longer necessary for 
the broker to speak to Mr G. So his failure to contact it only amounted to a technicality. In the 
circumstances, I do not think it was fair or reasonable for Mr Gs policy to be cancelled. 
I think it should be reinstated to the point of next renewal following the cancellation, or until 
Mr G found new cover (if he did), whichever is sooner. And if he found more cover, which 
was more expensive, and Mr G can show this, it will have to cover the extra cost too, plus 
interest on each increased premium payment until settlement is made.
accident whilst uninsured
I think the cancellation was reasonably communicated to Mr G. The mobile phone number 
aside, the broker did email Mr G. I know Mr G didnt receive those emails  although he says 
he has received others. But, regardless, but for the brokers failure of cancelling the policy, 
Mr G would always have been on cover with Markerstudy when he had the accident in late 
March 2021. And I note that the fact of the claim from December 2020 meant that Mr G 
continued paying his policy premium for that policy year  he didnt receive any refund or 
cessation of monthly payments when the policy was cancelled. So I think its fair and 
reasonable to require Markerstudy to assess Mr Gs claim, along with, if relevant, any from 
the other drivers involved in the accident. compensation
I think this has been a stressful time for Mr G. I appreciate that it was upsetting for Mr G to 
learn he had no policy in place when he called to report the March 2021 accident. I also 
understand he has felt worried about being liable for damage caused to the other car(s) 
involved. And he has also had a worry about the damage and cost of repair to his own car, 
which I understand is subject of a lease agreement and was unroadworthy after the accident 
and is believed to be damaged beyond repair. However, I think he has had access to 
another car and so been able to drive this car in the meantime. Having taken all that into 
account I think a sum of £500 is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances.
Mr G said he accepted my findings. Markerstudy said it disagreed with them. In summary it 
said:
Its been acknowledged that Mr G failed to contact the broker  so he was in breach of 
his agreement. As such it was entitled to cancel the policy to protect itself from an 
unknown risk remaining on cover.
That is the correct legal position and my rationale for departing from that seems flawed.
Its contact to the broker on 5 February did not discharge the broker from any need to 
contact Mr G  it was merely a chaser for the broker to update things once the broker 
had spoken to Mr G.
That was necessary even for the job of sales assistant because Mr G had previously 
said he delivered goods and the car it covers couldnt be used for that purpose.
In any event the letter is academic as it refers to Mr Gs job as sales assistant, when he 
is/was actually a drivers assistant.
It said it hadnt previously told this service that drivers mate/drivers assistant was an 
acceptable occupation to it. 
The occupation of drivers assistant is generally acceptable to it but not across all 
industries. 
It isnt known which industry Mr G was working in, so the broker, without speaking to 
Mr G, could only have entered unknown which would have been rejected.
As it is acknowledged that Mr G was properly notified of the cancellation, he should have 
stopped using his car.
It cant agree that compensation is appropriate here as it was Mr Gs failure to contact 
the broker which caused the problems he faced.
Regarding my suggested award for any increased premium Mr G has had to pay  it 
would like to know if this will only apply if Mr G took out replacement cover before the 
policy with it had been due to renew on 26 May 2021. And that it will only be liable for 
increased costs incurred to that date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive acknowledged that Mr G, technically, was in breach of his obligation to cooperate with 
the broker. That is not to say he knowingly failed to contact it. It is most likely, I think, that 
whilst the broker made reasonable attempts to contact Mr G, Mr G did not know it was doing 
so. And, as Ive said, this service expects an insurer to use its right to cancel fairly and 
reasonably. I still dont think Markerstudy did that here. 
The letter Markerstudy sent the broker directed the broker to update the policy and within a 
few days. That was it. I cant say that letter can reasonably be read as a chaser for the 
broker to contact Mr G and then update the policy if all other checks are ok. Whether or not Markerstudy had concerns that as a sales assistant Mr G might be delivering goods  it told 
the broker very clearly to update the policy with the occupation change.
The only query in place that had caused the need for Mr G to be contacted  the occupation 
change to sales assistant  was, in my view, dismissed with that direction from Markerstudy. 
It doesnt matter that the title of sales assistant was actually incorrect anyway. Because 
Markerstudy didnt know it was incorrect. The reason for the broker to need to contact Mr G 
had fallen away  so his failure to respond to it was no more than a technicality because the 
contact was no longer needed. I remain of the view that the cancellation, based on such a 
technicality, was unfair and unreasonable.
Confirmation was given to this service that the role of drivers mate/drivers assistant was 
acceptable to Markerstudy. And Markerstudy has now shared some detail from its 
acceptance criteria which shows that is indeed the case. In my view, the detail shared does 
not support its assertion that the role of drivers mate is sometimes unacceptable to it. Nor 
that before the role can be considered, the industry in which work is undertaken has to be 
known and acceptable to it. And I bear in mind that Markerstudy directed the broker to 
update the change to sales assistant without requiring the industry to be checked. Which 
brings me back to the key issue at the heart of this complaint  the need for contacting Mr G 
that had existed, had fallen away, so was it fair to cancel his policy when he still didnt make 
contact, even though that contact was no longer needed? As Ive said, my view on that 
hasnt changed, I dont think it was.
As lve also said, I dont think Mr G knowingly used his car whilst being uninsured. If I felt he 
had acted recklessly by knowingly driving whilst uninsured then my view might be different. 
But Ive seen nothing to make me think that is the case. Markerstudy failed Mr G and so it 
must, as closely as possible, put him back to where he would have been without that failure. 
That is being insured and at the price he had paid for cover. As is this services approach it 
must also compensate him for the distress and inconvenience its failure caused him.
When commenting provisionally on the extra premium Mr G may have had to pay, I did not 
set a timeframe. Either for when he had to have arranged that cover by or until when 
Markerstudy should pay until. The net result of Markerstudys failure will have meant that, as 
well as being more expensive, replacement cover will have been harder to find. So, 
regardless of when Mr G found that cover (assuming he did) and for how long it ran after the 
policy with Markerstudy had been due for renewal, if that policy cost him more, that extra 
cost stemmed from Markerstudys failure. I think its reasonable to say it should reimburse 
him any extra costs incurred for that cover (as I said, assuming cover was found). 
Putting things right
I require Markerstudy to:
Reinstate Mr Gs policy to the point of next renewal following the unfair cancellation, or 
until Mr G found new cover (if he did), whichever is sooner.
If new, more expensive cover was found, and Mr G can show this, reimburse his extra 
outlay, plus interest* on each increased premium payment until settlement is made.
Consider his claim, and any claim from other drivers, for the accident in March 2021.
Pay Mr G £500 compensation.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate 
documentation should be provided to Mr G for HMRC purposes. My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman