DRN-1548450
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service he received from UK Insurance Limited (UKI). He said they 
damaged his vehicle following a claim under his roadside assistance policy.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr S made a call out under his roadside assistance policy following the 
breakdown of his car. It was believed there was a problem with the battery and in an attempt 
to jump start it, Mr S said the agent forcefully hit the starter motor with a pole. As a result, he 
said this caused another warning light to appear on the cars dashboard that wasnt present 
before.
The car was returned to the garage where it had been serviced a week earlier. The garage 
said at the time of the service, there were no fault codes but following the call out, a fault 
code relating to the gearbox control module was reporting. They said if the warning light was 
not present before the call out, it may have occurred during the attempted start of the car by 
the agent. They said the gearbox control unit would need to be replaced before a further 
diagnosis could be carried out. Mr S believed the breakdown agent was responsible for this 
fault and he wanted UKI to reimburse him for the cost of the repair which was around £900.
He complained to UKI. They said the internal fault with the gearbox control unit could not 
have been caused by the starter motor being hit. They suggested this fault was the reason 
for the original breakdown and call out.  
Mr S disagreed and provided further comments from the garage. They said the starter motor 
casing had signs of impact and its located in close proximity to the gearbox. In response, 
UKI maintained the gearbox fault was the reason why the car broke down and this is when 
the fault codes wouldve been logged. They said impacting a starter motor is common 
practice to temporarily start a car. They also said the fault code indicated a failure of the 
internal components of the gearbox control unit and if their agent had caused damage, there 
would be damage to the gearbox unit itself however there is no evidence of this. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr S referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. He concluded based on the evidence, UKI 
wasnt liable for the damage caused. 
Ms S disagreed. In summary, he said the agent hit the starter motor several times with force 
and he questioned whether this was part of normal procedure. He said he believed the 
vibration of the hits to the starter motor could have damaged the internal electrics within the 
gearbox control unit. He also provided a video of the warning light and a photograph of the 
starter motor.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is inconclusive or incomplete, I have reached my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  this means I have determined what I consider is more likely to have happened 
based on all the evidence that is available and the wider circumstances.
Having done so, I agree with the findings of the investigator and Ive decided not to uphold 
Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
At this point, it is worth stressing that while Ive considered the garages comments that the 
car was serviced approximately a week before the callout and no faults were found, I cant 
ignore the fact the car broke down. This suggests there was something wrong with it. 
Therefore I need to consider on balance whether the fault to the gearbox was the result of 
the agents actions in trying to start the car. 
UKI said its common roadside practice to tap a starter motor as a temporary repair to start a 
faulty motor. However I note when they asked the agent who attended the callout about their 
version of events, they denied using this method to get the car started. Meanwhile, Mr S has 
insisted they hit the motor starter several times with force. Mr Ss version of events have 
remained consistent throughout the complaint and I find them plausible especially having 
considered the picture of the starter motor which show visible impact marks. Therefore I 
believe the agent did hit the starter motor in attempt to start the car and did so with force. 
Ive carefully considered the findings of UKIs technical team and those of the garage. 
Having done so, I believe if the fault with the gearbox control unit was a result of the hits to 
the starter motor, I think it would be reasonable to suspect there would be signs of damage 
or impact to the gearbox control unit itself. However no evidence has been provided to show 
this. While I accept the starter motor and gearbox control unit may be close together, they 
are separate parts of the car and without further evidence, it would be difficult for me to find 
the impact on one would result in a fault with the other.
It would appear Mr S has concluded from the garages comments that the impact of the hits 
to the starter motor and the vibrations caused mustve damaged the internal components to 
the gearbox unit. However the garage, nor UKIs technical team, have found this to be the 
case. UKIs technical team has explained this is unlikely because the fault code indicates 
there was a failure with the internal components of the gearbox control unit and there is no 
damage to it. Meanwhile the garage didnt confirm the action of hitting the starter motor is 
directly linked to the gearbox fault. Instead theyve said if the warning light wasnt present 
before but appeared after the agent attempted to start the car, the fault may have occurred 
during the attempts to start the car but they are unable to confirm as they werent present at 
the time. 
Based on everything Ive considered, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence for me to 
fairly conclude the actions of UKIs agent in attempting to fix the car was a direct result of the 
gearbox control unit fault. On this basis, it would be unfair to ask UKI to reimburse Mr S for 
the cost of the repair. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Simona CharlesOmbudsman