DRN-3613067
The complaint
The representative for the estate of Mrs D complains that Scottish Widows Limited 
(previously known as Halifax Financial Services) has acted unfairly. In particular, the 
representative says that Scottish Widows should have paid the estate the value of Mrs Ds 
investment on the date she died, not on the date it was notified of her death. 
The representative says that the difference between the value of Mrs Ds investment on the 
day she passed away and the value Scottish Widows actually paid was £624.02. In order to 
put matters right the representative wants this amount to be paid to the estate.
What happened
Very sadly Mrs D died on 24 October 2020. On 18 November 2020, the representative for 
the estate of Mrs D visited a branch of Halifax and notified it of Mrs Ds death. 
On 26 November 2020, the representative telephoned Scottish Widows and was asked to 
provide another copy of Mrs Ds death certificate as, for whatever reason, this had not been 
passed to the administration team by branch staff. The representative then sent another 
copy of the death certificate.
It subsequently came to light that the representative had already provided a copy of the 
death certificate to branch staff on 18 November 2020. As this was the case, Scottish 
Widows paid the estate the value of the units held in Mrs Ds investment at the next 
valuation point after it had received notification of Mrs Ds death, 19 November 2020. 
It also paid the representative £150 for the trouble and inconvenience its poor service had 
caused by requesting a copy of the death certificate when a copy had already been 
provided. But it said it was not willing to pay the estate the value of Mrs Ds investment on 
the day she died, as its terms and conditions set out that it would pay the value of the 
investment at the next valuation point after the date it had been notified that the policy holder 
had died.
The representative was not satisfied with Scottish Widows response and referred the matter 
to this service.
Having considered this complaint our investigator said she didnt think Scottish Widows had 
acted incorrectly in this matter. She said she was satisfied that it had acted in-line with the 
terms and conditions of the investment when it paid the estate the value of the investment at 
the next valuation point after it had been notified that Mrs D had died.
She also noted that the representative had queried whether Scottish Widows had paid the 
estate the value of the investments on 18 November 2020, the date she had first notified its 
branch staff that Mrs D had passed away, or 26 November 2020, when she had telephoned 
it. Our investigator said the records showed that Scottish Widows had used the next 
valuation point (19 November 2020) after the representative had notified it on 18 November 
2020, that Mrs D had passed away. 
As this was the case, she said the estate had not lost out as a result of any delay in branch 
staff passing the information to the administration department.
The representative was not satisfied with our investigators response and asked for the 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. The representative reiterated that she felt it 
was unfair for Scottish Widows to pay the estate the value of the investments on the date it 
was notified Mrs D had died and not the date she had died.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that the representative for the estate of Mrs D made three complaints to 
Scottish Widows in connection with Mrs Ds investment. However, the only complaint that 
was referred to this service concerns whether it acted incorrectly when it paid the value of 
Mrs Ds investment at the date of notification, rather than the date she died. I have therefore 
only considered this complaint.
I am sympathetic to the points the representative for the estate of Mrs D has made. But, in 
order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that Scottish Widows has acted 
incorrectly in this matter. 
The terms and conditions for the investment the late Mrs D held set out:
9. Death Benefits
b. The death benefits will be the greater of:
- the value of the units linked to the plan (at the unit price on the next valuation after 
we receive notice of the death of the relevant life covered at our administration 
office): and 
- the minimum death benefit.
As the terms and conditions set out that Halifax (now Scottish Widows) would pay the value 
of the units at the unit price on the next valuation after we receive notice of the death, I 
cant reasonably find that Scottish Widows has acted incorrectly, by paying the estate the 
value of the units at the valuation point on 19 November 2020, the next valuation point after 
the representative had notified it that Mrs D had passed away.
I appreciate that the representative feels it is unfair that the value of the investment declared 
for inheritance tax purposes was the value at the date of death, 24 October 2020. And this 
was a higher amount than the amount the estate actually received. However, I cant 
reasonably require Scottish Widows to make good the difference as its terms and conditions 
clearly set out that it would pay the value of the units at the next valuation point after it 
received notification. 
As our investigator explained, the records show that Scottish Widows paid the value of the 
units at the valuation point on 19 November 2020, the next valuation point after the 
representative first notified branch staff that Mrs D had died. As this is the case, I am 
satisfied that the estate was not disadvantaged by any delay in the branch staff notifying its 
administration department. 
I also note that Scottish Widows has paid the representative £150 for the inconvenience its 
poor service caused when it requested a second copy of Mrs Ds death certificate on 26 
November 2020, despite a copy having already been provided to Halifax branch staff.My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs D 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman