DRN-2640543
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the administration of a hire agreement provided by Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services (VWFS). 
Mr F says at the end of the hire period he tried to contact VWFS to discuss amounts he was 
charged and to make a payment, but it ignored his contact and continued to send letters 
chasing the debt. And he says VWFS called him by the wrong name.
What happened
In March 2017 Mr F acquired a new car using a hire agreement provided by VWFS. The 
agreement was for a hire period of three years.
At the end of the term Mr F handed back the car to VWFS. It was then inspected and VWFS 
made Mr F aware he owed a balance of £1874.05 for excess mileage charges and £199.99 
for refurbishment costs.
Mr F says he was happy to pay this and so in mid-April 2020 he called VWFS to discuss the 
amount and to find out how to make a payment. But, he says he spent a long time on hold 
and was then hung up on.
Mr F then went on to attempt to make contact on numerous occasions with VWFS via phone 
and email during April and May 2020.
VWFS emailed Mr F and asked for some further information for security at the end of April 
2020. At the beginning of May 2020, it sent Mr F a breakdown of the charges due but called 
him by the wrong surname.
Mr F says he continued to receive letters from VWFS and debt collectors chasing the 
amount due, despite his attempts to make contact to pay.
Mr F complained to VWFS. In June 2020 it wrote to Mr F and explained eight weeks had 
passed since he raised his complaint, but it was not yet in a position to give him an answer. 
In August 2020 VWFS issued its final response to Mr F. It said due to Covid-19 it had 
experienced an increase in customer contact, and it had taken longer than usual to respond 
to his complaint. It apologised for getting his name wrong in an email. VWFS said it 
shouldve contacted Mr F sooner than it did about the charges. And it apologised that it 
continued to send arrears letters after Mr F had contacted it and raised a complaint.
In order to put things right, VWFS offered to waive the refurbishment charge of £199.99. It 
said the excess mileage charge was still due.
Mr F was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to our service. He said the offer 
wasnt enough to put things right. He said what happened had caused him a lot of stress and 
impacted his health. He thought all the charges should be written off.
Our investigator issued an opinion. He said, in summary, that he thought the level of service 
provided by VWFS had likely been impacted by Covid-19. He said taking this into account, 
VWFSs offer to waive the £199.99 refurbishment charge was enough to put things right. 
Mr F disagreed. He still said the offer wasnt enough to reflect what happened. So, the case 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F complains about a hire agreement. Providing and administering consumer credit 
contracts such as this is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can consider Mr Fs complaint 
against VWFS.
In this case, Mr F isnt complaining that the charges at the end of the hire agreement were 
unfairly applied. So, I havent considered this further. Ive only considered the service Mr F 
received.
It isnt in dispute here that the service provided by VWFS fell below what Mr F couldve 
expected. But, for clarity, its worth saying that I agree this was the case. Im satisfied Mr F 
attempted to contact VWFS on various occasions to discuss payment of the balance due, 
and I dont think it was reasonable for VWFS to continue to chase him for the amount owed 
given this. I think there was a delay in VWFS returning Mr Fs contact. And I also think it 
wouldve been frustrating for Mr F to receive an email with the wrong name on.
So, what I need to consider in this case is whether the offer VWFS has put forward is 
enough to put things right.
I do need to consider that around the time the problems occurred, the UK was in a national 
lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. This had an impact on many businesses and 
organisations, including VWFS. VWFS wouldve been dealing with many consumers 
impacted by the situation and I think its understandable this wouldve had a knock on effect 
when dealing with Mr F.
Ive carefully considered everything Mr F told us. I cant see this has had any financial impact 
on him. However, I was sorry to hear this affected his health. But, thinking about whats fair 
and reasonable here, Im satisfied VWFSs offer to waive the £199.99 refurbishment charge, 
along with its apology for calling Mr F the wrong name, is enough to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi 
Financial Services offer to put things right is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman