DRN-3751160
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has turned down a claim 
Mrs J made on a travel insurance policy.
As Mrs J made the claim and brought the complaint to us, Ive referred only to her 
throughout this decision.
What happened
Mrs J took out a travel insurance policy in November 2021. In January 2022, while Mrs J 
was on holiday abroad, she learned that a close relative had sadly passed away. So Mrs J 
called Admiral, as she needed to get home and wanted to look into making a claim on her 
travel insurance policy.
The call handler told Mrs J that she could make arrangements to return to the UK and make 
a claim retrospectively. Mrs J cut short her trip and travelled back to the UK. She made a 
curtailment claim on the policy.
Admiral turned down Mrs Js claim. It noted that Mrs Js relative had been diagnosed with a 
serious medical condition some time before the policy had been taken out. And Mrs Js 
relative had passed away as a result of this condition. Admiral told Mrs J that the policy 
specifically excluded claims which arose because of the pre-existing medical conditions of 
non-travelling relatives. Therefore, it concluded that Mrs Js claim wasnt covered by the 
policy terms.
Mrs J was unhappy with Admirals position, and she asked us to look into her complaint. She 
said Admirals call handler had told her that shed be covered for all of her expenses, door-
to-door. She added that he hadnt asked her whether her relative had any pre-existing 
medical conditions.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Js complaint should be upheld. She felt the policy terms 
made it clear that Admiral didnt cover claims caused by the pre-existing medical conditions 
of non-travelling relatives. And as Mrs Js relative had been diagnosed with the condition a 
year prior to the policy being purchased, the investigator thought itd been reasonable for 
Admiral to decline to pay the claim.
The investigator also listened to the call between Mrs J and Admirals call handler. She didnt 
think the call handler had given Mrs J any guarantee that the claim would be paid. She also 
didnt think the call handler wouldve had any reason to believe that the claim was down to a 
pre-existing medical condition.
Mrs J disagreed. In summary, she felt the onus of mentioning a pre-existing medical 
condition had to rest with the trained insurance professional, not on individuals who didnt 
realise theyd need to make this point. She said this was even more important, given such 
calls were usually made during times of high stress and require all of the relevant information 
from an insurer. And she said that the call handler hadnt indicated at any point that the claim 
might not be paid.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs J, I think it was fair for Admiral to turn 
down her claim and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to offer my sincere condolences to Mr and Mrs J for their loss. I dont doubt 
what an upsetting time this has been for them. Id also like to reassure Mrs J that Ive 
carefully considered all shes said and sent us when reaching my decision.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mrs Js policy and the relevant claims calls, to decide whether Admiral treated 
her fairly.
Is the claim covered by the policy terms?
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mrs Js 
contract with Admiral. Page 14 of the policy sets out a Medical Declaration. This includes 
the following:
We will not pay any claim related to a pre-existing medical condition of other people, whose 
health may affect your decision to travel or remain overseas such as a close relative, travel 
companion, close business associate or any person you have arranged to stay with, which 
they had at the start or renewal of your policy or when you booked a trip (whichever is later).
The definition of a pre-existing medical condition is:
Any disease, illness or injury that, you or any insured person (or any person your trip 
depends on) has, when arranging or renewing your policy, or when you book a trip 
(whichever is later) see Medical Declaration on page 13.
Page 32 of the contract sets out the cover Admiral provides if a policyholder cuts short their 
trip. This includes curtailment cover if a policyholder has to cut short their trip because of the 
illness or death of a close relative. However, page 34 sets out specific events which Admiral 
has chosen to specifically exclude from curtailment cover. One of these is that it wont pay 
any claim related to:
a pre-existing medical condition of other people whose health may affect your decision to 
travel or remain overseas, such as a close relative, travel companion, close business 
associate or person you have arranged to stay with, which they had at the start or renewal of 
your policy or when you booked a trip (whichever is later).
In my view, Admiral has clearly explained in the contract what it considers a pre-existing 
condition to be and that it doesnt cover the pre-existing conditions of close relatives. And I 
note that the Insurance Product Information Document, which sets out an at-a-glance 
summary of policy cover and important terms, also says, on page one:
What is not insured
Pre-existing medical conditions of non-travelling relatives or of those whose health may affect your decision to travel or remain overseas: this exclusion applies regardless of 
whether you were aware of the condition or not.
Theres no dispute that Mrs Js relative had been diagnosed with a serious illness several 
months before the policy was taken out. And its common ground that it was this condition 
which led to the passing of Mrs Js relative and therefore, led to Mrs J understandably 
needing to cut short her trip. As such then, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for 
Admiral to conclude that the above exclusion clause applied to the circumstances of Mrs Js 
claim and accordingly, to turn the claim down.
The telephone calls
Like the investigator, Ive listened carefully to the calls between Mrs J and Admirals call 
handler. Its clear Mrs J strongly feels that she was given misleading information by the call 
handler and that they didnt tell her about the pre-existing condition exclusion.
However, I dont think that the call handler did give Mrs J unclear or misleading information. 
They explained that there was curtailment cover available on the policy and what this might 
pay out for. They also explained that Mrs J could make all the arrangements she needed to 
get back to the UK and claim retrospectively. I dont find this was a guarantee that any claim 
would definitely be paid though or that all Mrs Js costs would be met.
Neither do I think there was anything in the calls which ought to have put the call handler on 
notice that Mrs Js claim might be caught by the pre-existing medical condition exclusion. So 
I wouldnt reasonably have expected them to point this exclusion out to Mrs J at this stage in 
the claims process.
Even if I had thought the call handler had made an error though, Id then need to go on to 
think about whether such an error had caused Mrs J to do something she wouldnt otherwise 
have done, which had caused her to lose out. Here, that means that Id need to be satisfied 
that Mrs J wouldnt have curtailed her trip but for her conversation with the call handler. And 
having listened to the calls, I dont think I could fairly find that this was the case. Thats 
because Mrs J told the call handler that due to the passing of her relative, she needed to get 
back home. So even if shed been told upfront that potentially, her claim might not be paid, I 
still think its more likely than not that shed have cut short her trip and returned to the UK.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mrs Js position, I think Admiral has treated her 
fairly. And I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could direct it to pay 
her claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman