DRN-3500884
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt support him regarding the 
management of his current account and his overdraft facility. He believes they should have 
seen the potentially damaging transactions taking place and should have intervened.
What happened
Mr D holds a current account with Lloyds. He initially held an overdraft facility of £1,800 on 
the account. He says during some of the years he held the account, he was under a lot of 
pressure from work and family and was also in financial difficulties. Mr D also says he 
formed a gambling addiction during the time and relied on his account with Lloyds to deposit 
money into various gambling accounts. He says, at times he was gambling more than he 
could afford and began to chase his losses.
Mr Ds overdraft facility has increased and decreased over the years he has held the 
account. Most notably, at around January 2017, Mr Ds overdraft facility was increased to 
£2,000. It increased further at around July 2017 to £2,250. It was increased again to £2,500 
at around September 2017.
Mr D says he has now received professional help for his gambling addiction. He believes 
Lloyds should have seen the potential damaging transactions that were taking place and 
should have put in place safeguarding measures. So, he complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds responded and explained to Mr D that although there is a duty of care they must 
provide as a responsible lender, there is also a requirement for their customers to be able to 
conduct their finances in a feasible manner.
Mr D, unhappy with Lloyds response, brought his complaint to our service. Our adjudicator 
found that Lloyds should have done more to put things right and that from July 2015 
onwards, it ought to have been apparent to them that Mr D was unlikely to have been able to 
repay what he owed. The adjudicator explained that Mr D was using his overdraft to fund the 
gambling for a large amount of transactions. In settlement, our adjudicator said that Lloyds 
should rework Mr Ds account to remove all the interest and charges added to his account 
from July 2015.
Lloyds disagreed with the adjudicators findings. They believe, among other things, that Mr 
Ds spending and use of his overdraft facility on his account was sustainable as he had a 
regular monthly salary that brought his account into credit each month. They say there was 
no extended period when the account was not in credit balance during the years reviewed. 
As Lloyds disagreed, the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on 29 April 2022 where I explained why I intended to not 
uphold Mr Ds complaint. In that decision I said:
 
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont intend to uphold this complaint and I wont be asking 
Lloyds to do anything further. 
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
 including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach while deciding Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D has said that he suffered from a gambling addiction during some of the years he held 
an account with Lloyds. Im sorry to hear that was the case but pleased to hear that he 
sought help and has now been able to bring his addiction under control. Ive considered what 
hes said about his gambling addiction, but it doesnt automatically mean that Lloyds should 
refund any historic interest, fees and charges it has added to his account over the years.
Furthermore, I havent considered whether the amount of fees Lloyds decided to charge Mr 
D, were fair and reasonable. This is because this is a commercial decision and its down to 
Lloyds to decide how much to charge for its services. This isnt something I can get involved 
with.
That said, Ive looked at whether Lloyds was aware or ought to reasonably have been 
aware, that Mr D could be in financial difficulty through the use of his account. And if so, 
whether it was appropriate for Lloyds to apply any interest, fees and charges. So, Ive 
considered whether there were any instances where Lloyds didnt treat Mr D fairly and 
reasonably because it failed to act when told Mr D was in financial difficulty, or it failed to 
recognise this in circumstances where it ought to have done.
Our adjudicator has said that Lloyds should have done more to put things right and that from 
July 2015 onwards, it ought to have been apparent to them that Mr D was unlikely to have 
been able to repay what he owed. 
Once a lender is told that a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty, we would expect it to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration, in line with its regulatory obligations. Ultimately, 
wed expect a lender to listen to a borrower, get an understanding of their circumstances and 
then assess the most appropriate way to move forward. But I cant see that Mr D made 
Lloyds aware of his gambling addiction or that he was in financial difficulty.
So, Ive also considered whether Lloyds carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr D would be able to repay any credit and whether a fair lending decision 
was made.
Before approving these overdraft applications, Lloyds needed to make sure it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. This means it needed to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
D could afford to repay the amount it was lending. A proportionate check is dependent on a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  Mr Ds particular circumstances (e.g. his 
financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit he was looking to obtain.
Ive looked at the application data Lloyds has provided me at the time Mr Ds overdraft limits 
increased. Each application had a unique credit score ID, suggesting a credit check was 
completed. While it doesnt show what specific data the credit checks shown, Im satisfied it 
is likely a credit check was completed on each occasion.
Having looked at Mr Ds spending and account habits around the time his overdraft limit 
increased, I can see he had a regular salary coming into his account. His monthly salary was 
around £2,000, and in some months, it was supplemented by additional credit into his 
account of around £540 for rent payments. I also cant see his account or overdraft facility 
being used for regular or persistent gambling transactions around the times Mr Ds overdraft 
limits increased.Mr D, also on occasions credited his account with large sums of money, ranging from 
£15,000 to £40,000.
Lloyds must monitor their customers repayment record and take appropriate action where 
there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties. But I cant see that Lloyds ought 
to have been aware that Mr D might have been struggling during these periods. Its fair to 
say that Mr D did incur overdraft and associated fees and he may well argue that this in itself 
ought to have led Lloyds to realise that it was unfair for it to apply these charges. But its also 
fair to say that these charges were incurred sporadically.
Mr D often had a credit balance on the account, which further supported that any difficulties 
were temporary.
I accept that neither credit checks, or Mr Ds account activity meant that Mr D wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But I dont think there was anything in Mr Ds account 
statements or in the transactions themselves which ought to have alerted Lloyds to further 
financial difficulty  at the times Mr Ds overdraft limits increased.
So, in these circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to proceed with the 
interest, fees and charges it did add to Mr Ds account. And I dont think, at the time of each 
limit increase, that there was a point where Lloyds ought to have realised it was increasing 
Mr Ds indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
I appreciate this is likely to be very disappointing for Mr D  especially as our adjudicator 
concluded his complaint should be upheld. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
intended decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
I set out that I didnt intend to uphold this complaint. And I gave both parties the opportunity 
to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider before I issued 
my final decision.
Responses to the provisional decision
Lloyds responded and said they had no further comments to make.
Mr D responded and said that Lloyds were made aware of his gambling problem back in 
2015 when he went over his credit limit on a credit card he had with them. He says he used 
his current account to gamble, then turned to his credit card when his funds had depleted.
Mr D says that due to his gambling, it was agreed that his credit card be deactivated, and a 
regular repayment amount made to pay off the outstanding amount.
Mr D also says the large deposits into his current account came from redundancy and family 
inheritance  the majority of which he has now lost through his current account with Lloyds 
due to gambling.
As both parties responded before the deadline I set out in my provisional decision, Im now 
in a position to reach my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr D says that Lloyds were made aware of his gambling problem in 2015. However, I cant 
see that Lloyds were made aware. I have implied by what Mr D has said that he believes 
Lloyds ought to have been aware of his gambling in 2015, due to the use of his credit card. 
While that may be so, it doesnt necessarily follow that Lloyds ought to have done anything 
differently with his current account.
Mr D has explained the source of the large sums of money he received. It is an unfortunate 
set of circumstances that most of that money has now left his account. But I cant say Lloyds 
were to blame in this instance. Mr D was mainly spending his own funds in his current 
account. And when he did use his overdraft credit facility during the months his limit was 
increased, he had regular income coming into his account, bringing him out of debt on each 
occasion, and I cant see any irregular spending habits. So, I cant fairly say Lloyds ought to 
have realised it was increasing Mr Ds indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful.
So, in this instance, I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman