DRN-3653599
The complaint
Miss M complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont reimburse the funds 
she lost when she fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam.
What happened
Miss M was looking for an investment opportunity and, in February 2020, was contacted by a 
representative of EGM Finance. Miss M says that she checked the firms website which 
looked legitimate and decided to invest. EGM Finance later turned out to be fraudulent. 
To facilitate her trading account with EGM Finance, Miss M first sent money from her Halifax 
account to a cryptocurrency exchange platform called Coinipop. It converted her funds into 
cryptocurrency and then sent it on to the intended destination as instructed by Miss Ms 
account manager at EGM Finance. 
Miss M was able to make one withdrawal of £300 after her initial deposit. The following 
transactions are relevant to this case:
Date Type Merchant Amount
22 February 2020 Debit card Coinipop.com £1,000
29 February 2020 Credit Coinipop.com £300 (credit)
6 March 2020 Debit card Coinipop.com £5,000
17 March 2020 Debit card Coinipop.com £4,300
Total loss £10,000
 
Miss M eventually realised she had been scammed when repeated withdrawal requests 
were declined and her account managers email address suddenly became invalid. She 
reported the matter to Halifax in September 2020. It declined to refund the transactions or 
raise a chargeback but paid £100 compensation in recognition of the delays in responding to 
the complaint. Unhappy with this, Miss M referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator concluded that Halifax didnt act unfairly in raising a chargeback. He also 
considered whether Halifax ought to have done more to prevent the payments from being 
sent in the first instance. It was the investigators view that Halifax ought to have intervened 
when Miss M authorised the payment of £5,000 on 6 March 2020 as it appeared unusual. 
But he thought that an intervention was unlikely to have stopped her from going ahead with 
the payment. So, he didnt think Halifax could have limited her losses. 
I issued my provisional decision a few weeks ago. I explained that I intended reaching a 
different outcome to the investigator. 
I gave both parties an opportunity to provide any more comments and evidence for me to 
consider. Both Halifax and Miss M accepted my provisional findings. What follows is my 
provisional decision made final.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by reassuring both parties that although Ive only summarised the background 
and main arguments, so not everything that happened is mentioned, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided in its entirety. 
Recovery
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes 
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator  Visa in this case  
ultimately arbitrates on a dispute if it cant be resolved between the merchant and the 
cardholder. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only 
limited grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be 
considered valid, and potentially succeed. 
Miss M was dealing with a broker called EGM Finance. Given the information Ive found 
about it during my research, Im satisfied Miss M fell victim to a scam rather than simply 
losing money as a result of a high-risk investment. 
But Miss M didnt make the debit card payments to EGM Finance; she paid Coinipop. This is 
important because Halifax was only able to chargeback against the merchant she paid, not 
another party. 
Its my understanding that Coinipop is a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange firm. The 
service provided by the exchange would be to convert Miss Ms payments into 
cryptocurrency. Therefore, the merchant she made the payments to did provide the service 
that was requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency. The fact that the 
cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt give rise to a 
valid chargeback claim against Coinipop. 
Duty of care
While I dont think that Hallifax could have done more with regards to the recovery of 
Miss Ms funds once it was made aware of the situation, Ive also considered whether it 
ought to have intervened before allowing any of the payments to be made.
The disputed payments were authorised by Miss M using her legitimate security credentials. 
So, under the relevant regulations, shes considered liable unless theres evidence that 
Halifax could and should reasonably have done more to protect her against the risk of fraud 
and scams, and that this would have made a difference to her decision-making.
Halifax ought to have been monitoring accounts to counter various risks; having systems in 
place to identify unusual transactions or other indicators that its customer was at risk of 
fraud; and, in some situations, making additional checks before processing payments or 
declining them altogether to protect its customer from possible financial harm from fraud.
Ive considered that the payments were sent to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange. And I 
accept that buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate exercise. But both the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and Action Fraud had warned of cryptocurrency exchange and forex trading 
scams in 2018. And in May 2019 Action Fraud published further warnings that such scams 
had tripled in the past year. This type of insight is something that regulated businesses, 
including Halifax, ought to take notice of. What this means is that even if Miss M had been sending money to a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange, it didnt follow that her money was safe, or that she wasnt at risk 
of financial harm due to fraud or a scam. By the time Miss M made the payment, I think 
Halifax had or ought to have had a good enough understanding of how these scams worked 
to have been able to identify the risk of harm from fraud. Including, that the customer often 
first purchases cryptocurrency and moves it on to the fraudster under the assumption that 
theyre moving it into their own wallet or account.  
Ive considered the operation of Miss Ms account in the year leading up to the disputed 
payments. In my view, the first payment of £1,000 wasnt particularly unusual or suspicious 
such that I think Halifax ought to have intervened. But it appears that Halifax did intervene at 
the time  it sent a One-Time Password (OTP) to confirm it was Miss M making the 
payment. Given the amount involved, this type of intervention doesnt seem unreasonable. 
Im not aware of Halifax intervening in the subsequent payments. The second payment  
£5,000 on 29 February 2020  was substantially higher than other transactions on Miss Ms 
account. Like the investigator, Im satisfied that this was so unusual that Halifaxs systems 
ought to have triggered an alert and the payment paused, pending further intervention. 
Given the amount involved, and the fact that the payment was to a cryptocurrency 
exchange, I consider it would have been reasonable for Halifax to have properly questioned 
Miss M before executing her authorised instruction. And in this instance, I dont think a 
limited intervention such as an OTP would have been sufficient. 
Had Halifax carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Miss M about the payment, 
Ive no reason to doubt that she would have explained what she was doing and the true 
purpose of her payment to Coinipop. She had been given no reason to think she had to hide 
this information from her bank, and neither had she been coached to tell them something 
different.
At the time of the payment, there wasnt information available to Halifax that EGM Finance 
was involved in a scam. A warning by the FCA wasnt published until August 2020. I accept 
that Halifax had no duty to protect Miss M from a poor investment choice or give investment 
advice. But it could have provided information about the steps a customer can take to 
ensure, as far as is reasonably possible, that they are dealing with a legitimate person or 
firm  such as checking the firm was authorised by the FCA. 
Halifax could have also drawn on its own knowledge and information that was in the public 
domain  mentioned above  about the high risk associated with trading and the potential for 
fraud and provided Miss M with a potential scam warning.
Had Halifax done more, Im satisfied that Miss M would have looked further into the 
investment opportunity in general, including whether EGM Finance was regulated here in the 
UK or abroad. She could have discovered that it wasnt. Indeed, its likely that Miss M would 
have come across the various warnings about cryptocurrency exchange scams. 
Although our investigators view was that its unlikely Miss M would have acted differently 
had Halifax intervened, for the reasons Ive given above, Im persuaded that a meaningful 
intervention from it would likely have exposed the scam. And I think its more likely than not 
that intervention would have caused Miss M to stop from going ahead with the payment, 
thereby preventing further losses. So, I find that Halifax is liable for these losses.
Contributory negligenceIve also carefully thought about whether Miss M is partly to blame for what happened. 
Miss M told our investigator that shed done some trading before. Halifaxs system contact 
notes from 2017 also confirm this. It is noted that Miss M mentioned incurring losses on her 
trade, including losing the capital shed invested. 
Other than telling our investigator that she looked up EGM Finances website, Miss M 
doesnt appear to have carried out any independent research into the investment, the firm, or 
the investment type to reassure herself that the opportunity as presented to her in February 
2020 was genuine. 
Given her prior trading experience, I think Miss M ought to bear some responsibility for her 
2020 losses and that compensation should be reduced accordingly. Having thought about 
this carefully, I think that it would be fair to reduce compensation by 25%.
Putting things right
To put matters right, Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax needs to reimburse Miss M the 
last two disputed payments as set out in the what happened section, making a 25% 
deduction for contributory negligence. 
As the payments were made from a current account, I consider it would be fair and 
reasonable for the bank to also add simple interest at 8%, payable from the date of loss to 
the date of settlement (less any tax properly deductible).
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman