DRN-2336372
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that following a leak at their home, AXA Partners (AXA) hasnt 
covered the repairs to their thermostat, and that the contractor sent by AXA broke a part 
which Mr and Mrs B have had to pay to replace. 
What happened
In December 2019 Mr and Mrs B noticed a leak from their hot water cylinder. They contacted 
AXA to make a claim under the home emergency part of their home insurance policy.
AXA sent a plumber to investigate. When he arrived, he removed the cylinder thermostat 
and thats when Mr and Mrs B say he also broke the fixing collar. A few days after the 
repairs had taken place, Mr and Mrs B were sent an invoice from the plumber, for £172.67.
Mr and Mrs B complained to AXA about this, saying the plumber it had sent round had 
broken the part. AXA said it didnt agree that the plumber had caused the damage as it had 
checked its records and, according to those, Mr and Mrs B had told AXA that the thermostat 
had been damaged by the leak.
Unhappy with AXAs response, Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator considered the complaint and didnt think AXA had acted unfairly. She said while 
she didnt doubt that the plumber broke the fixing collar, she couldnt hold AXA responsible 
as Mr and Mrs B had said the thermostat was already damaged by the leak.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy Mr and Mrs B hold with AXA. These say, 
under the Home Rescue Plus section, that AXA will cover only emergency repairs, where an 
emergency is defined as an event involving the immediate risk of injury, damage, or the 
home becoming uninhabitable. Under those terms AXA would cover the failure of a boiler, 
hot water system, central heating system or main heating source where no alternative exists. 
AXA has said the thermostat wasnt covered for replacement as it was no longer the cause 
of an emergency once the plumber had been out to the property on the first day. Having 
looked at the policy, I think this is fair. I say this because the plumber was able to link out the 
thermostat so that the hot water and central heating were in working order. So the repair of 
the thermostat could no longer be described as an emergency.
Mr B says he watched as the plumber broke the fixing collar. Hes said the plumber didnt 
have the right part with him and that the next day the plumbing company called to say 
thered be a charge to fix the thermostat. Mr B told them that their plumber had broken the 
fixing collar, but following completion of the repairs around a week later, Mr and Mrs B were 
invoiced.
I can see from its system notes that AXA contacted the plumbing company about its agent 
causing damage to the fixing collar, and the plumbing company denied that the plumber who 
attended was responsible for breaking this part. However, I dont dispute what Mr and Mrs B 
have said about this  and think its likely, from what Mr and Mrs B have said, that the 
plumber probably did cause the damage. However, Ive already established that repairs to 
the thermostat wouldnt be covered under this policy. So it wouldnt be fair for me to ask AXA 
to reimburse Mr and Mrs B for the cost of this.
Ive also listened to the call in which Mr B asks why hes not covered for the thermostat. He 
explains how the thermostat was damaged by the leak and doesnt understand why its not 
covered. But the adviser explains what Ive said above about that part of the policy only 
applying to emergency situations. And Mr B seems to accept this during the call. Mr B also 
tells the adviser that the plumbing company have quoted him a high price for the work, when 
he knows he can get the parts much cheaper. The adviser suggests to Mr B that he try to get 
the thermostat repaired privately for cheaper if he can do so, and Mr B appears to 
understand this. 
So, for the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied that repairs to the thermostat arent covered 
under this policy in the circumstances of this case, and I dont think it would be fair for me to 
hold AXA responsible for the damage caused to the thermostat by the plumbing contractor. 
As the repair was quoted for privately, Mr and Mrs B may wish to consider contacting the 
plumbing company directly if they wish to pursue a complaint against it.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B but my final decision is that I do not uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman