DRN-2335256
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Landmark Mortgages Limited didnt tell them that they had 
missed a mortgage payment in March 2018. They only found out in 2020 what - and 
Landmark said they were two months in arrears despite only missing one payment.
What happened
In March 2018, Landmark unsuccessfully attempted to collect the payment was due on Mr 
and Mrs Ms mortgage. Mr and Mrs M say they only found out when Landmark wrote to them 
in June 2020 to say their mortgage was two months in arrears.
When Mr and Mrs M complained, Landmark said it tried unsuccessfully to collect the 
payment again a few days later and wrote to Mr and Mrs M twice asking them to contact it. It 
says the letter it wrote in June 2020 said they were two months in arrears as it was sent 
when the June 2020 payment was due on the 1st of the month  even though the payment 
date was the end of the month. 
Landmark said it had only recorded one month of arrears on Mr and Mrs Ms credit file from 
April 2020. Landmark explained that at that time Mr and Mrs Ms contractual monthly 
payment reduced. That meant that the amount of the March 2018 missed payment was then 
more than the new monthly payment  so they were then over one month in arrears.
On review, our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that 
Landmark had given evidence to show that it had made many attempts to contact Mr and 
Mrs M to discuss the arrears, had spoken to Mr M at least twice and sent annual statements, 
which showed the mortgage was in arrears prominently. The investigator didnt think that 
Landmark had made any mistakes in the information it had recorded on Mr and Mrs Ms 
credit file.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept what the investigator said. They made a number of points, 
including:
They cant remember having a conversation with Landmark in the last two years  unless 
it has a recording we shouldnt rely on its notes.
They cant remember receiving any letters from Landmark in 2018  again they need 
concrete evidence.
It was unfair that the missed payment was recorded in 2020, when it was missed in 
2018. They dont understand why the missed payment wasnt applied at the time the 
payment was missed.
They have an interest only mortgage so dont pay any attention to the mortgage 
statement.
The missed payment will affect their credit score and their ability to remortgage in the 
future.
Landmark treated a late payment in July 2018 differently when recording it on their credit 
file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that the March 2018 payment wasnt made by Mr and Mrs M. I need to 
decide if Landmark has treated them fairly and reasonably. Where there is a dispute about 
what happened, I will reach my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is what is most 
likely to have happened in view of the available evidence. Im not required to decide beyond 
doubt what happened.
Landmark has provided a copy of the letters it sent Mr and Mrs M in April 2018. The letters 
are correctly addressed. I can see no reason why if they were produced that they were not 
sent. So I think that Landmark took reasonable steps to tell Mr and Mrs M that they had 
missed a payment at the time in question.
Further, the second letter says that Landmark had been trying to contact Mr and Mrs M by 
telephone. This is supported by Landmarks notes of it attempted and successful contact by 
phone. I can see that it made regular unsuccessful attempts to speak to Mr and Mrs M, both 
before and after the letter. Its notes state that it spoke to Mr M and he told Landmark he 
would ask Mrs M to call it back as she dealt with their finances. I consider it more likely than 
not that the contact notes supplied by Landmark are an accurate record. They are in line 
with the records kept by many lenders in such circumstances and it would be a serious step 
for a lender to falsify such information. There is no evidence that it has done so here.
The arrears were set out clearly and prominently on Mr and Mrs Ms annual mortgage 
statement. It was Mr and Mrs Ms choice not to check it. But I cant say that was due to any 
mistake by Landmark. It was reasonable for it to expect Mr and Mrs M to check that 
everything was as it should be on their mortgage.
I dont consider that Landmark acted unfairly in the way it attempted to collect the March 
2018 payment from Mr and Mrs M. I also consider that it has made reasonable attempts to 
contact Mr and Mrs M about the arrears.
That leaves the information recorded on Mr and Mrs Ms credit file. Landmark has an 
obligation to record true and accurate information on their credit report. I appreciate that it is 
confusing that although the payment was missed in March 2018, it didnt show on Mr and 
Mrs Ms credit file until April 2020. 
Looking at Landmarks records, the amount of the arrears as a result of the missed payment 
in March 2018 was lower than the contractual monthly payment. Its not clear why this was  
but it wasnt to Mr and Mrs Ms disadvantage. It is in line with usual practice to only record on 
a credit file when the amount of the arrears is more than one monthly payment. It does not 
necessarily reflect that a payment was missed but rather the amount that a borrower is 
behind with payments.
It wasnt until April 2020, when Mr and Mrs Ms payment reduced that it was lower than the 
amount of arrears. So at that point Landmark was obliged to record the mortgage as being 
one month in arrears. That is accurate as the amount of arrears was more than the amount 
of the monthly payment. I consider this is an accurate reflection of the conduct of the 
account. And in view of the steps that Landmark has made to make Mr and Mrs M aware of the arrears and to arrange repayment, I consider it has acted fairly in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
Im satisfied with Landmarks explanation that the letter it sent in June 2020 said Mr and Mrs 
M were two months in arrears because of the point in the month it was sent.
I understand why Mr and Mrs M are disappointed  but as Landmark hasnt made a mistake 
or acted unfairly or unreasonable, I cant tell it do anything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman