DRN-3697546
The complaint
Mr B complains he missed out on using his ISA allowance for the 2021/22 tax year due to 
failing Financial Administration Services Limiteds (trading as Fidelity) electronic verification 
checks.
What happened
Mr B held a dormant account with Fidelity. On 30 March 2022, he called them about opening 
an individual savings account (ISA). He wanted to know how he could send them funds. 
Fidelity told him he could either use a debit card, bank transfer or cheque. Mr B was 
concerned a cheque wouldnt arrive before the tax year end. So, he said hed speak with his 
bank about using his debit card.
Having visited his bank and making the necessary arrangements, Mr B called Fidelity again 
on 1 April 2022. He wanted to activate his account with them to set up an ISA. But as his 
account was dormant, Fidelity needed to re-verify his identity and address details. Before 
they could do that, they required Mr B to read and accept their terms and conditions. But as 
he didnt have the facility to do this online, Fidelity agreed to post them to him.
Mr B spoke with Fidelity again on 4 April 2022. Although hed now received and accepted 
their terms and conditions, he was told hed been unsuccessful passing their electronic Anti 
Money Laundering (AML) verification process. Fidelity said Mr B would need to provide 
documentation to manually comply with their AML requirements. 
Mr B wasnt happy with what happened. He thought Fidelity shouldve completed the 
electronic checks when hed first called them. He also said hed already passed their security 
checks when he called and couldnt see why further checks were required. Unfortunately, he 
wasnt able to complete Fidelitys formalities before the end of the 2021/22 tax year, so he 
complained to them.
Having investigated Mr Bs complaint, Fidelity wrote to him on 6 April 2022. They said they 
needed to comply with UK AML regulations before they could open an ISA. They said theyd 
followed the correct process and didnt agree they done anything wrong.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with Fidelitys response. He spoke with them again on 11 April. He 
wasnt happy that Fidelity hadnt explained why hed failed their electronic AML verification 
checks and thought they should compensate him for missing out on his annual ISA 
allowance.
Fidelity responded to Mr B again on 14 April 2022 in a letter. They explained the checks they 
needed to complete and why a manual verification was required. They didnt agree theyd 
done anything wrong, so didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Unhappy with Fidelitys responses, Mr B asked this service to look into his complaint. Having 
considered all the information available, our investigator didnt think Fidelity had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly. Mr B didnt agree with our investigators findings.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Bs complaint has been passed to me to consider 
further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The UK anti-money laundering legislation is dictated by various Acts of Parliament. All UK 
financial institutions are required to comply with UK AML Regulations. Part of this involves 
the regular identification and verification of individuals before accounts and facilities can be 
provided. Fidelity are bound by these regulations as are all UK financial institutions regulated 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Compliance with the various regulations can be achieved in a number of ways. The quickest 
and usually most straightforward of these is through electronic means. This is where an 
individual is identified by matching information theyve provided against public records held 
at the credit reference agencies. These records usually include information about an 
individuals identity and home address or place of residence. However, where an electronic 
verification isnt possible or is unsuccessful, financial businesses will need to follow other 
manual (non-electronic) processes. Usually by requesting official documentation from the 
consumer.
Mr B first contacted Fidelity on 30 March 2022. While he did discuss opening a new ISA, his 
call mainly related to questions about how he could move funds to Fidelity. There was no 
specific request to open an account at this stage and Mr B decided to speak to his main 
bank first about how to move money. The first time Mr B made it clear to Fidelity he wanted 
to open an account was 1 April 2022. 
It was established Mr B didnt have access to the internet. Fidelitys website provides details 
of their terms and conditions together with their account opening processes and AML 
requirements. But as Mr B couldnt access these, Fidelity agreed to post the information to 
him. In the circumstances, I think Fidelity acted appropriately and in Mr Bs best interests 
here. They couldnt open an account or complete their checks until Mr B had read and 
accepted their terms and conditions. 
Mr B received the information and contacted Fidelity on the following business day (4 April 
2022) to instruct them to open an ISA for him. Fidelity completed an electronic verification 
check but unfortunately, this wasnt successful. Fidelity werent able to tell Mr B why this 
was. Such checks are usually completed using an external source and Fidelity arent 
provided with any explanation. So, I cant reasonably hold Fidelity responsible for the 
unsuccessful check or say that they did anything wrong by not providing more information to 
Mr B.
Mr B couldnt understand why his identity had been successfully verified when he called 
Fidelity, but this wasnt acceptable for AML purposes. Fidelity did explain in their letter of 6 
April 2022 that their own caller security checks were merely used to identify Mr B ahead of 
discussing his account details. They are different to those required under AML regulations. I 
think this was a reasonable explanation.
Mr B thought Fidelity shouldve initiated an electronic check when he first called them. But as 
he hadnt seen or accepted their terms and conditions at this stage, they couldnt do that. Im 
persuaded that Fidelity completed the electronic check at the first possible opportunity once 
Mr B had accepted their terms and conditions of business. Unfortunately, as those checks 
were unsuccessful, Fidelity werent able to complete their regulatory AML checks so couldnt 
yet open an account.
Fidelity provided Mr B with full details of the documentation they required to complete their 
checks manually. This is what I would expect them to do. But Mr Bs only option was to send those documents to them by post. And as this was the day before the last day of the tax 
year, I think it was highly unlikely Fidelity wouldve been able to complete the account 
opening in time. 
The circumstances here are unfortunate. The timings were tight and hindered by a reliance 
upon postal services to deliver documentation. Unfortunately, it appears there was simply 
not enough time. While I do understand Mr Bs frustrations and annoyance, I cant 
reasonably find that Fidelity did anything wrong or contributed inappropriately to any delay 
here.
I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed, but I shant be asking Fidelity to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman