DRN-3246781
The complaint
B is a limited company. Its director, Mr S, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined the 
companys application for a new bank account  which meant it couldnt then apply to the 
bank for a Bounce Back Loan. 
What happened
B wanted to apply for a Bounce Back Loan with HBSC. HSBC required all businesses to 
have either a business or feeder account before they could apply for a Bounce Back Loan, 
so in May 2020, B made an application online for a feeder account with the bank.
B was asked to provide some identification and verification (ID&V) documents. These were 
uploaded online by Mr S, so HSBC could complete its required checks. When B didnt get a 
prompt decision as expected, Mr S called HSBC numerous times asking for an update on 
the banks decision. 
In early July, HSBC called Mr S and said their system wasnt able to read the ID&V 
documents hed submitted and asked him to take them to a branch for verification, which he 
did. Later that month, HSBC said its automated system had reviewed all the information B 
had submitted and declined its account application.
Mr S complained to HSBC. He said although there may have been some adverse 
information on his credit file, this would have been in a personal capacity and not linked to B. 
So he felt HSBCs decision was unfair and asked the bank to reconsider. 
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said it had declined Bs application inline with 
its account opening policy, so it didnt feel there was a mistake and its decision remained 
unchanged. Mr S didnt agree and asked this service to look into Bs complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought it was reasonable 
that HSBS asked businesses who wanted to take out a Bounce Back Loan with the bank to 
open an account. And in doing so, she thought it was reasonable for HSBC to undertake the 
checks it did and decide if it wanted to offer an account or not. She said HSBC had 
assessed Bs application inline with its criteria and was satisfied this was consistent with how 
it treated other new customers. She also didnt think the bank had taken an unreasonable 
amount of time to make its decision.
Mr S didnt agree. He said HSBC had told him his feeder account would definitely be opened 
and he had never been made aware this would be subject to any checks. He also said hed 
never been told about the account terns and conditions and had waited an unreasonable 
amount of time for HSBC to make a decision. 
Mrs S told us this was actually Bs second account application as the first application had 
taken too long for a decision, so HSBC said it should submit another one. He also felt the 
bank should have carried out its checks before making him take ID&V documents to a 
branch and incur call costs chasing the bank for an update. 
Our investigator responded to Mr S and explained that HSBC hadnt been able to find any 
call recordings from his contact number, and the bank had provided evidence of this. She 
said that based on the evidence shed seen, she couldnt say the bank had told Mr S that Bs 
application would be accepted. The investigator thought HSBC was entitled to carry out 
checks in relation to the feeder account and this had been confirmed in the terms and 
conditions included as part of the account application  which Mr S had agreed to. 
She also said she could only look at the evidence from the feeder account application which 
had been declined in July, and based on what shed seen, it was less than three weeks after 
identifying an issue that the bank declined Bs application. She also thought it was 
reasonable for HSBC to ask Mr S to provide the ID&V documents as the application couldnt 
be processed without them. Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review Bs 
complaint, so the case has been passed to me to make a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mr S has told us he wasnt told by HSBC when he applied for Bs account that any checks 
would take place. He also says the banks website says the application wouldnt be subject 
to checks. However, HSBC has provided information from its website of June 2020, which 
said it would need to complete customer due diligence checks as part of its onboarding 
process. Im also not persuaded the bank would have advertised that it wasnt going to 
undertake checks, as it has regulatory obligations to meet and without carrying out checks, it 
couldnt be satisfied it would meet these obligations.  
Mr S also told us that he wasnt given a copy of the terms and conditions  or even made 
aware of them.  However, Ive seen a copy of the application webpages, which include a link 
to the terms and conditions and pricing information as part of the application process. By 
clicking on the link, the full terms and conditions were provided which included a section 
relating to credit reference agencies and credit scoring which explained that the bank may 
undertake these checks and use them to assess the suitability for an account or product.
The application also includes a tick box which says, I can confirm that I have read and 
agree to the terms and conditions and pricing. The HSBC has confirmed that the system will 
not allow an application to progress unless this box has been ticked. Ive also seen a system 
record from HSBC from the same date the bank reviewed Bs application which showed that 
Mr S had agreed to the terms and conditions as part of the process. So Im satisfied Mr S 
was provided with a copy of the terms and conditions before making Bs application. 
If Mr S hadnt been able to view the terms and conditions before submitting the application, I 
think its reasonable to expect him to have requested these from HSBC. Ive also seen that 
as part of the online application process, there was a statement which said, we will need to 
complete customer due diligence checks as part of our onboarding process. So based on 
what Ive seen Im satisfied that the terms and conditions allowed the bank to carry out the 
checks it felt were necessary. And that it was fair for HSBC to decline Bs application when it 
failed those checks.
Mr S told us he was unhappy with the time it took HSBC to make a decision on Bs 
application. He feels B was treated unfairly and the bank should have completed its checks 
more quickly; however the bank has told us it was receiving a significant amount of 
applications  as one of the only lenders offering loans under the Scheme to non-customers. Ive seen that it was just over a month from the time the bank started looking at Bs 
application, before it notified B of its decision. I dont think that timeframe was unreasonable, 
given the volume of applications the bank said it received and the information it needed to 
gather and review when assessing Bs application.
Mr S also told us he felt it was unreasonable for HSBC to ask him to take the ID&V 
documents to a branch. But I dont agree. I think its possible the bank may have thought this 
was the quickest way to get the required information, as Mr S had already been 
unsuccessful in adding the ID&V documents through the online portal. I think HSBCs 
actions here were reasonable as it was an effective way for the bank to obtain the 
information it needed to continue processing 2s application without further delays, as the 
branch was able to upload a clear copy for the automated system to read  which it did. 
Mr S has told us that he was repeatedly told by different HSBC staff that Bs application 
would be fine and that HSBCs call handlers said Bs account would definitely be opened - 
but I havent seen any evidence this was the case. HSBC have provided call records from 
the number Mr S said he called from and in the wider date range he has given us, but there 
were no records of any calls being received from Mr S. I recognise Mr S feels its the banks 
responsibility to provide the record of any calls he made over the period of his complaint, 
however the bank only needs to keep call records in some cases for six months.
Ive also seen HSBCs system notes, which show that the staff wouldnt have been aware 
when Mr Ss ID&V had been provided, that the application was going to be declined. I think it 
would be difficult for the banks staff to predict a decision outcome on an application which 
wasnt complete  so Im not persuaded Mr S would have been told that Bs application 
would definitely be successful.  
I recognise that Mr S feels strongly about Bs complaint. But based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I think he was given the information by HSBC which said that it would be undertaking 
checks before opening an account. And I dont think HSBC treated B unfairly in declining the 
account application or caused any reasonable delays in providing its decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman