DRN-3904723
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice given by CST Wealth Management Limited (CST) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British 
Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable 
for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension 
schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The 
compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits 
for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. 
Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Bs employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
On 21 July 2017, the BSPS provided Mr B with a summary of the transfer value of his 
scheme benefits. These benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
£486,291.16. The CETB was later updated to £502,148,25.
Mr B was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the 
security of his pension, so he sought advice and he met with CST in August 2017.
CST recorded some information about Mr Bs circumstances. It noted that he was 50, 
married with two children. Mr B was employed earning approximately £45,000. His wife was 
also employed and she earned around £24,000. They had a mortgage on their home of 
approximately £45,000. They had around £17,000 in cash / savings and outstanding credit 
card debt of around £3,000. Mr and Mrs Bs total monthly expenditure was around £2,050 - 
£1,800 of which was deemed normal domestic expenditure.
CST also carried out an assessment of Mr Bs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be lowest 
medium.
CST issued a suitability report detailing its recommendation on 6 October 2017. This said 
Mr B wanted to explore the options available to him because he wanted to retire earlier than 
the schemes normal retirement age; in the event of his death his wife would only receive 
50% of his pension; taking benefits at 60 would significantly reduce his income; and he 
wanted a sustainable income of £2,500 per month net if possible from age 60. 
CST recommended that Mr B transfer his pension because it said the transfer would provide 
him with flexibility to withdraw income and or lump sums, which the scheme couldnt provide. 
And it would enable him to secure much higher death benefits. CST also recommended a 
pension provider and a discretionary fund manager to manage his investment strategy, 
which it said would broadly follow his attitude to risk.
During the same month and shortly after CSTs recommendation letter, members of the 
BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them the options to either stay in the 
BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits 
elsewhere.
Mr B complained to CST in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said he 
received a letter from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) that said some of the advice 
given to members of the BSPS by certain firms had been unsuitable, so he asked CST to 
review the advice he received. 
CST didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said at the time of the advice the only safeguarded 
option was the PPF, which wouldnt have supported Mr B retiring at age 60  it wasnt 
affordable for him to do so  while the personal pension arrangement was likely to provide 
the income he needed. It said although the primary use of the pension was to provide for 
Mr Bs retirement, the fund should also provide an income for his wife of three times greater 
than the scheme wouldve provided upon his death. It said while the level of benefits would 
vary, Mr B was prepared to take a limited amount of risk to provide the potential for 
enhanced pension benefits. It said it protected his pension fund by investing his funds in a 
relatively low risk portfolio and further protected by putting in place structured products 
through the use of a DFM. It said the transfer has significantly increased the value of Mr Bs 
potential pension benefits, so the transfer was therefore appropriate for him and in his best 
interests.
Mr B referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He says he now feels he 
wouldve been in a more secure position had he remained in the DB scheme and either 
opted for the BSPS2 or the PPF. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. They thought the advice was unsuitable 
as Mr B wasnt likely to improve on the benefits he was already guaranteed by transferring. 
They said they didnt think Mr B was prepared to take a lowest medium risk approach given 
the answers hed given on the risk profile assessment  they thought at best he was a low-
risk investor. For this reason they said the drawdown analysis was overly optimistic in terms 
of the expected returns and they didnt think it was necessary for Mr B to need the services 
of a DFM.  They said it was for CST to establish whether retiring early was feasible for Mr B
based on his circumstances and to clearly explain the reasons why this wasnt realistic. And 
they said the DB schemes death benefits were underplayed and CST shouldnt have 
prioritised death benefits over his security in retirement. They said CST shouldve 
recommended Mr B retain his DB scheme benefits. And if suitable advice had been given, 
they said Mr B wouldve had the option of moving to the BSPS2.
CST disagreed. In summary it said that, while it believes the advice was suitable and that 
Mr B hasnt lost out based on the value of his pension fund, it was nevertheless prepared in 
the interests of drawing a conclusion to things, to carry out a redress calculation. 
Mr B declined CSTs offer to produce a loss calculation and he asked for his complaint to be 
decided by an Ombudsman.Because things couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was referred to me for a final 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of CST's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, CST should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Bs 
best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that CST was required to carry out by the 
regulator, said that the critical yield - how much Mr Bs pension fund would need to 
grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme  was 
8.91% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 
60  his target retirement date. Or to match the maximum tax-free cash and reduced 
pension the scheme would provide at that age, was 6.3%. 
To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid from 60 the critical yield was 6.81% 
and to match the tax-free cash and reduced pension the PPF wouldve offered, it was 
6.17%.
Despite the fact it was known by the point CST instructed the TVAS that continuing in 
the BSPS in its existing form wasnt an option for Mr B, the analysis was based on 
the BSPS benefits. Given the timing of the written advice, I think CST shouldve waited for the details of the BSPS2 so it could include this in its analysis to put Mr B 
in an informed position. In any event, given what we know about the BSPS2, I think 
the critical yields to match the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve provided from age 60 
were likely to be between those of the BSPS and the PPF.
Given Mr Bs recorded lowest medium attitude to risk, the discount rate of 3.7% for 
nine years to retirement and the regulators middle projection rate, I think Mr B was 
always likely to receive pension benefits, from age 60, of a lower value that those 
hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF by transferring and investing 
in line with that attitude to risk. And indeed the suitability report noted that ...these 
critical yields are not guaranteed to be achievable year on year.
While this doesnt alter my decision given what Ive said about Mr B being worse off 
in retirement based on his recoded attitude to risk, I want to highlight that I have 
some concerns about the level of risk CST concluded Mr B was prepared to take with 
his pension benefits. In the initial fact-find Mr B indicated that: I will not accept any 
degree of risk and require maximum guarantees. And in the risk profile assessment 
he agreed to various statements, including that he would rather put his money in a 
bank account than invest in shares and that he did not feel comfortable when taking 
a financial risk or with financial uncertainty. All of these things, in my view, 
reasonably describe someone who was not prepared to take any risk with their 
pension. At best I think he was only prepared to take a very low degree of risk. So, 
any cashflow models CST produced showing how Mr Bs retirement income needs 
could be met sustainably by drawdown were not in my view appropriate  I dont 
think this was a suitable or appropriate method for Mr B to access his pension 
benefits.
So based on financially alone, I dont think it was in Mr B best interests to transfer his 
DB pension benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
CST recommended the transfer to enable Mr B to flexibility access his benefits and 
says it would enable him to meet his objective of wanting to retire at 60. While at 50, 
Mr B might have given some thought to his retirement, theres nothing in the advice 
paperwork to indicate he had any firm retirement plans at this stage. Im sure Mr B 
liked the idea of retiring early, but he already had this option available to him  he 
didnt have to transfer to achieve this. 
While he couldnt take his DB scheme benefits flexibly, nothing indicates he had a 
strong need to vary his income throughout retirement. And there was no apparent 
need for a lump sum and defer taking an income  indeed he indicated that he had 
no need for a lump sum at retirement. Mr B might have been attracted to the flexibility 
a personal pension provided  but I think this was simply a feature or a consequence 
of transferring to a personal pension arrangement rather than a genuine objective of 
Mr Bs.
In any event, Mr B already had flexibility. He was contributing to his workplace 
pension scheme  a defined-contribution scheme, which did provide flexibility in how 
and when he could access his benefits. Given the recorded 20.8% contribution being 
made to this (employer and employee total contribution) this had the potential over 
the coming 10 years or more to be worth around £100,000 and perhaps more. I think 
if Mr B retained his DB scheme, this wouldve likely given him the flexibility to retire 
early - if thats what he ultimately decided. So, I dont think transferring to obtain 
flexibility was in his best interests. CST recorded that Mr B wanted a retirement income from age 60 of £2,500 (net) a 
month. But CST doesnt appear to have carried out a detailed income and 
expenditure in retirement analysis to support or interrogate this figure. Or to 
determine whether it was really what he needed or realistic. Given nothing was 
recorded about Mr Bs plans for retirement and what he wanted to do, I dont think he 
was in a position to fully understand what his income need in retirement was.
But if this income figure was a true reflection of what Mr B needed, I still think its 
likely he couldve met - or stood a better chance of doing so - by retaining his DB 
scheme benefits. According to CST, at age 60 through the existing scheme, he was 
entitled to a pension income of just over £20,000 a year (likely a little less under the 
BSSP2.) And while this wasnt sufficient alone, he wouldve likely had a sizeable fund 
in his DC scheme he could use to supplement this and plug any shortfall - at least 
until his state pension became payable. His wifes state pension would also further 
support their household income need.
I think in the circumstances Mr B stood a better chance of meeting his needs by 
remaining in his DB scheme. It provided a guaranteed and escalating income for life, 
which wasnt going to be bettered by transferring. I think this was a more appropriate 
way for Mr B to meet his future retirement income needs.
CST said a transfer would secure a much higher level of death benefits. But the 
priority here was to advise Mr B about what was best for his retirement. And the 
existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses pension, that couldve 
been valuable to his family in the event of his death. I think CST downplayed the 
value of this benefit.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by any income Mr B drew in his lifetime. And so it may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr B may have thought it would.
Mr B already had lump sum death benefits in the form of death-in-service benefit and 
his DC workplace pension. But if Mr B had wanted to leave a legacy for his family, 
CST couldve properly explored life insurance as an alternative. I can see reference 
was made to a quote for a term assurance policy with a sum assured of £160,000 
over 10 years (the shortfall CST said existed to the capital value required to match 
the schemes death benefits on day one following the transfer), which was around 
£20 a month. This was discounted in favour of the transfer. But, given it appears 
Mr B had sufficient surplus disposable income through which he couldve met the 
associated premiums, I think this is what CST ought to have been recommended to 
meet any need. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr B. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately CST should not have encouraged 
Mr B to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
While not given as a reason for the recommendation to transfer, Im mindful that Mr B 
may have had legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension. He was also likely concerned about the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was CSTs role to objectively address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all 
signs pointed toward the BSPS2 being established. And if CST had waited for details 
of the BSPS2, which I think it ought to have done given the timing of the advice, this 
might have allayed some of the concerns Mr B might have had about this. But even if 
the BSPS2 didnt go ahead, the PPF still provided Mr B with guaranteed income - 
and the option of accessing tax-free cash. Mr B was unlikely to improve on these 
benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as concerning as he mightve 
thought or been led to believe. So I dont think any concerns he held about this 
meant that transferring was in his best interest.
For the sake of clarity - CST recommended that Mr B use a DFM to manage his 
pension funds. As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of 
the DB scheme wasnt suitable for him, it follows that I dont need to consider the 
suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because Mr B should have 
been advised to remain in the DB scheme, so the DFM would not have had the 
opportunity to manage his funds if suitable advice had been given.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Bs best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr B wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB 
scheme  he had no real investment knowledge or experience and nothing suggests to me 
that he had the requisite confidence or skill to do so. So, Im upholding the complaint as 
I think the advice Mr B received from CST was unsuitable for him.
I can see the Investigator also recommended an award of £250 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr B. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
CST  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and 
practical impact this had on Mr B. Taking everything into account, including Mr Bs age and 
his retirement plans, I think the unsuitable advice has caused him some distress. So I think 
an award of £250 is fair in all the circumstances.
  
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for CST to put Mr B, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would most likely 
have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable 
advice had been given. 
CST must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
CST should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. 
A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr B and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what CST 
based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, while its recorded that Mr Bs plan at the time of the advice was to retire at age 
60, hes told us that his plans have changed. Hes taken the decision to retire earlier and he 
intends to start drawing his benefits this month at age 56. Because of the reason behind 
Mr Bs decision to retire early, I think its more likely than not hed have started drawing his 
DB scheme pension benefits at the same time had he received suitable advice to remain in the DB scheme. So, as I notified Mr B prior to issuing my final decision, compensation 
should be based on him taking his scheme benefits at the same age. 
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Bs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, CST should:
calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr B accepts CSTs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr B for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, CST may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require CST Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £170,000.
CST Wealth Management Limited should also pay Mr B £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
CST Wealth Management Limited pays Mr B the balance.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on CST Wealth 
Management Limited.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman