DRN-2754731
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to refund her money that she lost as a result 
of a fraud.
What happened
In February 2020 Ms H was looking for accommodation online for a trip abroad. She found 
an accommodation she liked and had seen it across numerous third-party online booking 
platforms with very good reviews. As only one of the third-party platforms showed availability 
for the time she wished to travel, Ms R contacted the owner via a messaging system within 
that platform. 
Ms H then says that she suddenly received a private email from the advertiser from the 
platform shed originally contacted them through. This requested confirmation of the number 
of guests and dates of travel. Once Ms H confirmed these, she then received an email from 
what appeared to be a well-known and reputable accommodation booking platform 
requesting payment.
On 4 February 2020 Ms H transferred £1425.35 to the account instructed in the email 
received. But when shed not received confirmation of the payment, she contacted the 
genuine third-party business with which she thought shed made a reservation. 
Unfortunately, this was the point at which Ms H discovered that shed been defrauded as the 
genuine business confirmed no such reservation existed.
Ms H says that she attempted to contact the bank the same day, but due to the emotional 
impact of the discovery couldnt remember her telephone banking details. She therefore 
says she had to wait until the following Monday (10 February 2021) to go into the branch; 
when it was next open.
Ms H says that following raising her claim she was frequently provided confusing and 
conflicting messaging from the bank including being originally informed by a representative 
of the bank that shed receive her money back. 
HSBC eventually looked into Ms Hs claim but decided not to reimburse the funds as shed 
authorised the transaction herself and failed to use the genuine website where the 
accommodation was listed to make a secure payment. It did however acknowledge that 
Ms H was given incorrect information when reporting the incident. It paid £150 as a gesture 
of goodwill and by way of apology for this. HSBC added that it had informed the beneficiary 
bank that the funds had originated from fraud.
Ms H remained unhappy with HSBCs decision to not reimburse the funds lost, so she 
referred her complaint to our service. An Investigator considered the evidence provided by 
both parties but felt that HSBC had acted fairly. He concluded:
The payment didnt appear suspicious or uncharacteristic when comparing it to 
Ms Hs usual account activity. He therefore felt that HSBC wouldnt have been 
expected to intervene in the payment or question its legitimacy.
The payment didnt clear the balance on the account  which tends to be a sign of 
potential fraud.
The way in which Ms H was contacted by the fraudsters outside of the legitimate 
platform where the listing was found should have alerted suspicion. He felt that this 
should have prompted Ms H to carry out further checks to establish the legitimacy of 
the email received.
Ms H failed to heed warnings listed on the legitimate third-party website that told 
users to pay for accommodation through their secure platform to ensure the payment 
reached the accommodations host.
HSBC paid £150 in compensation for the errors in information provided to Ms H after 
shed raised her claim. The Investigator felt that this was fair when considering the 
impact caused by this incorrect information being provided.
Ms H remained unhappy with the assessment provided by the Investigator. She said that 
HSBC had failed to respond to her claim after numerous attempts to register it. She was also 
unhappy with the erroneous information it provided when it told her it would refund the 
money within 24 hours. This caused her significant distress as she informed her travelling 
companions shed paid the money with that this was the case; later to find out it wasnt true. 
She felt that HSBC shouldve reimbursed the funds as a gesture of goodwill to reflect this.
As Ms H disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter has now been passed to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is common ground that Ms H authorised the payment of £1,425.35. She was duped by the 
fraudsters into instructing her bank to transfer that sum to the international account held by a 
third-party bank. They deceived her into thinking she was paying for a genuine rental 
accommodation shed found through a reputable third-party platform.
 
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Ms H was the victim of a 
sophisticated fraud. She used her security credentials to request the payment. So, although 
she did not intend the money to go to the fraudsters, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, Ms H is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. Having reviewed Ms Hs account statements and considering the amount paid, I dont find 
that the amount appeared to be so unusual or out of character that HSBC should have 
intervened in the payment and questioned its legitimacy.
Firstly, I feel it important to acknowledge that HSBC, and other banking providers, process a 
large number of payments at any given time. To intercept and question all payments of, or 
around, the value paid in the circumstances of this complaint would be logistically impractical 
and therefore unreasonable to expect it to do so. It would also likely burden customers who 
are making genuine payments intended for legitimate purposes. So, I have to weigh up what 
is reasonable in the circumstances, and while the amount is no doubt considerable to Ms H, 
I dont think it wouldve stood out given the wider circumstances. I say this as it isnt 
particularly uncommon for a customer to make an occasional higher value payment for 
goods and services such as holidays and higher value goods.
Ive also noted that Ms H had made payments of a similar and higher value in the six-months 
prior to the fraud payment being made. This would have meant that it didnt appear 
particularly unusual when considering Ms Hs normal account activity for her to make the 
occasional higher payment.
Fraud payments also tend to have certain characteristics that Id reasonably expect a 
business to pick up on. This payment was to a new payee and an international payment; so, 
it does bear some of these characteristics. But it didnt clear Ms Hs balance andas Ive 
already touched upondidnt seem particularly uncharacteristic of her regular account 
activity.
As well as monitoring unusual account activity, HSBC ought reasonably to attempt to 
recover funds that its customers have lost as a result of a fraud. Here, HSBC has highlighted 
that it did contact the beneficiary bank to inform it of the fraud. Its highlighted that 
international banks dont tend to return fraudulent funds as they arent bound by the same 
rules and good practice regulated UK financial services are.
While Ive not seen any evidence that HSBC contacted the beneficiary bank, I have no 
reason to disbelieve that it did. Nevertheless, Im unable to assess if HSBCs contact would 
have made a difference in this complaint as the beneficiary account falls outside of the UKs 
territory. But experience in these types of organised and sophisticated frauds leads me to 
conclude that its more likely than not that the funds would have been removed from the 
account immediately or near-after they were deposited. I say this as fraudsters tend to be 
adept in business practice and are alive to the fact that funds can be frozen and removed 
when detected as fraudulent.
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC has met its obligations when not intercepting the payment and 
that even had HSBC swiftly contacted the beneficiary bank that it likely wouldnt have made 
a difference here.
Ms H has made submission that HSBC should refund the payment as a gesture of goodwill 
after it gave her incorrect information that it would refund the payment within 24 hours 
following her claim. While I appreciate Ms Hs stance on this, its not within our services 
remit to tell a business what to offer in goodwill; that is a commercial decision for the bank to 
make. Our role is to ensure it fulfilled its regulatory obligations and to decide on what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. And as HSBC has fulfilled these obligations, it would 
be unreasonable for our service to direct it to pay that money back to her.
Having said that, our service can consider any errors made and make an award for the 
impact of those errors. Here, HSBC has admitted to giving Ms H incorrect information 
regarding her claim. And in recognition of this its awarded her £150 in compensation.From reviewing the evidence Ms H has provided our service, I think its likely that there were 
some delays in HSBC dealing with her claim. It also been acknowledged that she was 
provided incorrect information when making her claim, which gave her false hope that shed 
receive the money back. And Ms H has evidenced that she relayed this information to 
companions that were contributing toward the cost of the accommodation. This no doubt 
caused her embarrassment, distress and inconvenience. But had these errors not occurred, 
I dont think it would have ultimately led to her being refunded the funds lost. And I think the 
£150 HSBC has offered is reasonable when considering the emotional impact the errors 
have caused. 
While I know Ms H will be disappointed with the outcome of this complaint, I find that HSBC 
has been fair and reasonable in dealing with Ms Hs concerns. Ill therefore not be directing it 
to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman