DRN-3809307
The complaint
Mr P complains about long periods of no contact from Hoist Finance UK Limited regarding a 
debt in his name. 
What happened
Mr P originally had a credit card with a business Ill call H. The credit card was closed and 
sold to a business that later changed its name to Hoist. 
Hoist says Mr P set up a payment arrangement of £10 a month in 2017. In 2018 Mr P raised 
concerns that a PPI policy shouldve covered his credit card payments. Hoist says it placed 
Mr Ps account on hold to allow H to respond to his complaint. 
Mr Ps complaint about H was later referred to this service and a response was issued in 
2019. 
Mr P has told us he didnt hear back from Hoist and assumed the debt was closed. But, 
earlier this year, Hoist communicated with Mr P about the debt. Mr P complained and 
explained he thought the matter had been closed. Hoist issued a final response and said it 
had been waiting to hear back from H about the PPI complaint Mr P had raised. Hoist 
confirmed H had now responded and advised Mr Ps PPI complaint was considered to be 
out of time. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ps complaint but didnt think Hoist had treated 
him unfairly. They said there was no evidence Hoist had told Mr P the account was closed 
and that call recordings were only retained by the business for 12 months. The investigator 
also accepted Hoist was waiting for a response from H after it referred his concerns about 
PPI in 2018. 
Mr P asked to appeal and said staff had told him Hoist could remove notes from its systems. 
Mr P also repeated that Hoist had previously agreed his account was closed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to ensure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Mr Ps told us its his view that Hoist told him the account was closed. But I havent seen any 
information or records from Hoist to support that claim. What I can see is that in 2018 Hoist 
contacted H after Mr P advised hed previously held PPI connected to the credit card with H. 
At that point, Hoist agreed to place the account on hold to allow H to investigate Mr Hs 
complaint. 
Ive looked at the contact notes available. They show Mr P did call Hoist in 2019. But the 
contact notes show Hoist gave Mr P details of the account balance and advised him it was 
on hold awaiting a response from H. Ive reviewed all the available information but havent 
seen any indication that Hoist told Mr P his account was closed. 
Mr Ps told us he thinks Hoist is able to delete notes. But I havent seen anything that 
indicates Hoist has sought to mislead or send in evidence that isnt genuine. Im satisfied its 
reasonable to take the contact notes and other supporting information into account when 
deciding how to fairly resolve Mr Ps complaint. 
Hoist only retains call recordings for 12 months so its not been possible to provide a 
recording from 2019. Thats in line with the business data retention policy and Im satisfied 
we have sufficient information available to reach a fair decision here without a call recording. 
I do agree with Mr P that there was as delay between Hoist referring the matter to H and 
starting collections activity again. Hoists told us it placed the account on hold to allow H to 
complete its investigations. I agree it couldve moved things along sooner and taken steps to 
get an update from H. Whilst that may be the case, I also think its fair to note Mr H wouldve 
been aware of the outcome of his complaint to H as he went on to refer the matter to us. In 
2019, one of our adjudicators said his complaint had been referred to us outside the time 
limits. So whilst I agree Hoist couldve contacted Mr P again sooner, Im also satisfied he 
was most likely aware of the outcome concerning his complaint about H. 
In response to the investigator, Mr P said hes unhappy with Hoists actions going back to 
2015. But we cant consider a complaint until a business has first had a chance to try and 
resolve it. And that didnt form part of the original complaint Mr P asked us to look at. Mr P is 
free to raise any further concerns that havent already been covered to Hoist if he wishes. 
But in this decision, I can only deal with issues that have already been raised with Hoist. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr P but as Im satisfied Hoist dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman