DRN-3865410
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about information given by Zurich Assurance Ltd when discussing a 
possible surrender of their investment plan.
What happened
In May 2020 Mr and Mrs B made a partial surrender from an Adaptable Life Plan they hold 
with Zurich. Soon after they received a Chargeable Event Certificate (CEC) which caused a 
much larger tax liability than they were expecting.  
Mr and Mrs B complained saying their financial advisor had spoken to Zurich before making 
the partial surrender and hadnt been given the right advice.
Zurich said that the financial adviser had asked questions about different scenarios but 
hadnt asked about the implications for the size and type of surrender that Mr and Mrs B 
actually requested. They explained they had told the financial adviser that they werent tax 
experts and that any tax implications should be checked. Whilst not upholding the complaint 
Zurich thought the level of customer service provided overall couldve been better and paid 
Mr and Mrs B £200 for any inconvenience. 
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy so brought their complaint to this service using their 
financial adviser as representative. One of our Investigators looked into what happened but 
didnt think Zurich had acted unreasonably. They said that the surrender Mr and Mrs B had 
requested was different to the two scenarios their adviser had asked Zurich about, so it was 
understandable that there was a different chargeable gain. 
Mr and Mrs Bs adviser disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Bs adviser has provided a lot of information about this complaint and its clear 
how strongly they all feel about what happened. I want to assure them that Ive read and 
considered everything that has been provided even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive 
summarised some things which reflects the informal nature of our service.
When coming to our service Mr and Mrs Bs adviser said that the crux of the complaint is 
that Zurich failed to say that it wouldve been more tax effective to make a full rather than a 
partial withdrawal from the plan. And having reviewed everything Im satisfied this is the core 
of the complaint. 
The adviser asked Zurich about the tax implications of two different scenarios  a partial 
withdrawal of £150,000, and a full surrender of the plan; and Zurich gave information about 
both of those situations. What happened was that Mr and Mrs B then requested a maximum 
partial withdrawal of £234,968. This was a different scenario from either of the two that the 
adviser had asked Zurich about so therefore it incurred a different tax liability.
It's important to say that in this situation Zurich werent giving advice. What they were doing 
was giving information based on questions they were asked. And Zurich wasnt asked to 
provide information on a maximum partial withdrawal of £234,968. I can see why the adviser 
wouldve wanted Zurich to go further and explain that a full surrender wouldve incurred a 
lower tax liability than a partial surrender, but this isnt what they were asked.  So Im 
satisfied Zurich fulfilled their role in providing the information which was requested. Also 
Zurich made clear several times that they are not tax experts and that any information 
should be checked.
Zurich paid Mr and Mrs B £200 for the overall customer experience they received both 
directly and through their adviser. Part of this was that Zurich werent as clear as they 
couldve been in some of their communications. Mr and Mrs Bs adviser is concerned about 
some communication between him and Zurich which wasnt clear and says some of the 
information was incorrect or incomplete. 
Looking at the available information I think Zurich couldve been clearer in some particular 
instances, however Im not persuaded that those communications had any effect on what 
actually happened. Mr and Mrs B requested a withdrawal of a different type and amount to 
anything that had been discussed, therefore naturally the tax implications were different. So I 
think the £200 is a fair and reasonable payment for what happened overall. 
Having carefully considered everything Im satisfied Zurich acted fairly and reasonably. They 
provided answers to questions that were asked and also made clear that they werent tax 
experts so any information should be checked.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman