DRN-2163983
The complaint
Mr P complains that he wasnt able to make an electronic transfer of money out of his
savings account with National Westminster Bank Plc
What happened
Mr P tried to make a telephone transfer from his savings account. He couldnt do so as the
amount was over the daily transfer limit. He tried online too, and got an error message
saying he couldnt transfer from this type of account.
Mr P phoned NatWest again, and was told that the terms of his account had changed. He
wasnt able to make an electronic transfer out from this account. He could only transfer the
money into a NatWest current account, or take it out in branch. Mr P didnt have a NatWest
current account, and it was after 6pm, so the part of the business that sets up new current
accounts had closed for the day.
Mr P was told he could make the transfer in branch the next day, and wouldnt need to take
out cash.
Mr P went to a branch the next day. Staff there werent able to make a transfer for him, and
said he would have to take the money out in cash. Mr P said the payment was time
sensitive, it needed to be made that day.
Mr P said NatWest had addressed his complaint about being given wrong information over
the phone, but not his complaint that staff were encouraging customers to take out very large
amounts of cash, which he thought was unsafe. He also said that it was less clear where the
money came from than if a transfer was made, so that could trigger additional checks.
Mr P wants NatWest to change the terms that no longer allow transfers to be made from
savings accounts.
NatWest said it was sorry for the wrong information that Mr P had been given about being
able to make a transfer in branch. It confirmed that Mr P could no longer make transfers out
of his savings account into anything other than a current account held at NatWest in his
name. It set out the changes in full, and said it had written to him about these a couple of
months earlier. It said it takes the security of its customers very seriously, but in his case,
because the payment was time sensitive, the only viable option was to take the money in
cash.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that NatWest had
made a commercial decision to change the terms of its account, and we couldnt ask the
bank to change that.
Mr P said he thought that NatWest couldve offered other options. But it didnt. He was
concerned that NatWest was telling its customers there was no option but to take out very
large amounts of cash, which he didnt think was safe. He wanted this to be addressed for
the future.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I only partly proposed to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
I dont think that NatWest has to change the terms of its account to allow transfers to 
be made from savings accounts. I think its entitled to set the terms of its business, 
and that includes not allowing transfers to accounts held by other banks from its 
savings accounts. And I think it had acted to notify customers of this change well in 
advance.
But I also note that Mr P sought specific advice about what he could do, to make an
important and time sensitive payment. He was told he could make a transfer in the 
branch. When he went to a branch, the staff there couldnt do that for him.
Mr P said that he had no option but to take out the money in cash. And NatWest said 
that this was the only viable option for him, because his payment was so time 
sensitive. I dont think that means that NatWest will always insist its customers can 
only take money out from accounts like Mr Ps by taking cash. Other options are 
available. I note that NatWest had previously discussed opening a current account 
for Mr P, so he could transfer from there, but it had been too late the day before to 
set that up for Mr P.
I think its because Mr P needed to make this payment so urgently, that he had little 
option but to take cash out, and deliver it by hand.
I still think though that Mr P was given incorrect advice by NatWest. He arrived at the
branch, expecting to be able to make a transfer, and instead had to take a large sum 
in cash. If Mr P had been forewarned of this, he might have made other 
arrangements to help reduce the risk involved, like asking a friend to accompany him. 
Instead, he was unprepared, and I think that makes the prospect of carrying so much 
cash much more daunting.
I dont think that NatWests apology is quite enough to make up for this, and Ill ask it 
to pay Mr P £50 as compensation.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
NatWest accepted my decision. Mr P didnt reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc must pay Mr P £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman