DRN-1385881
Complaint
Mr S complained about a loan he took out through a company called Elevate Credit 
International Limited, trading at the time as Sunny. Mr S says taking out the loan had a 
negative impact on his credit rating and if hed known this, he wouldnt have asked for it.
To keep things simple Ill refer mainly to Sunny throughout this decision.
Background
We now know that Mr S only took out 1 loan from Sunny, in May 2015. Ive enclosed a 
summary of Mr Ss borrowing with Sunny, based on the information it provided to us. It can 
be found in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into the complaint and said they didnt think it should be 
upheld. Ive been asked to make an ombudsmans final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking about Mr Ss 
complaint.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr S could 
repay the loan he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have taken into 
account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Sunny should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully considered all of these things 
and what they mean for Mr Ss complaint.Sunny told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Mr S, including 
assessing his income, expenditure and creditworthiness. It says that based on what was 
said, this information showed that Mr S would be able to make the loan repayments he was 
committing to. Our adjudicator agreed.
Im afraid I too dont think theres enough evidence to uphold Mr Ss complaint. This is 
because on the basis of what Mr S himself said about his salary and outgoings, the loan 
seemed affordable and this was the only loan Sunny gave him. He said his income was 
around £1,200 per month after tax and he seemed to have plenty of income left to meet the 
loan repayments. Although Mr S says his credit rating was eventually affected by taking out 
the loan, I dont think Sunny did anything wrong because it recorded the transaction in 
accordance with normal practice. The purpose of this is that lenders can share information 
about creditworthiness.
It seems Mr S hadnt considered all the consequences of taking out a short-term loan. Thats 
unfortunate, but Im afraid it doesnt mean hes due any compensation. Mr S agreed to all the 
terms and conditions and paid the money back as per the schedule. Sunny didnt do 
anything wrong and Im therefore unable to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont direct Elevate Credit 
International Limited to pay Mr S any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020
Appendix
Loan Taken Out Repaid Amount Highest Monthly 
Repayment 
1 30/05/2015 01/12/2015 £400 £134
 
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman