DRN-3471085
The complaint
Mr M complains that Revolut Ltd blocked his account without notice. He would like 
compensation.
What happened
Mr M had an account with Revolut.
Revolut asked Mr M to provide them with proof of income and source of funds in November 
2020. Mr M was asked for further information on 2 March 2021.
Mr M thought the requests for paperwork constituted customer harassment and he found 
these requests stressful. Mr M thought Revolut should limit themselves to carrying out due 
diligence when opening an account.
Following the review Revolut blocked Mr Ms account on 2 March 2021.Mr M wasnt allowed 
to carry out external transfers on the account. Mr M says he was without access to his funds 
for 12 days. During that time Mr M says he didnt have access to his money, and he wasnt 
able to provide food for his family.
Revolut completed the review of the account on 12 March 2021 and gave Mr M access to his 
account.
Mr M complained to Revolut. They said they were entitled to carry out a review of Mr Ms 
account. Revolut accepted that they could have completed their review sooner and they 
refunded three months worth of subscription fees for Metal account, a total of £30.
Revolut later offered Mr M an extra £50. Mr M rejected this amount- he thought he should be 
offered more compensation as it had taken him at least 20 hours to try and get things sorted. 
Mr M provided Revolut with documents they requested but his account was still blocked for 
two weeks.
Mr M complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said 
Revolut were entitled to review customers accounts to comply with their legal and regulatory 
obligations. He said our service couldnt fine Revolut because Mr M thought the failures in 
their systems had caused him financial hardship. He thought the £50 offer was reasonable.
Mr M was unhappy with the investigators view, he didnt think £50 was sufficient 
compensation, he said he had spent 20 hours on this matter and he and his family had 
suffered financial hardship for 12 days. He also didnt think Revolut were entitled to block his 
account.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Review and block of the account
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Ms account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Revolut were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Ms account. 
I can see that in blocking the account Revolut was following an internal process which they 
carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a 
legitimate exercise so I cant say Revolut was unfair. 
Mr M has said he doesnt think the terms and conditions allow Revolut to block his account. 
But I disagree, I have looked at the terms and Im satisfied that Clause 23 allows Revolut to 
block the account to meet its legal and regulatory obligations. So, Im satisfied they havent 
acted unfairly there.
Mr M has said that although he understands that Revolut need to carry out due diligence this 
should be done at the application stage. Mr M is unaware that the obligations on financial 
institutions are ongoing and do not stop after an account has been opened. Therefore, I 
would expect Revolut to carry out regular due diligence exercises and indeed they would be 
failing in their duty if they didnt do so. Therefore, Im satisfied that Revolut acted in line with 
its ongoing legal and regulatory obligations when it reviewed Mr Ms account and asked him 
to provide proof of entitlement and source of funds.
Delay
Mr Ms account was blocked for 12 days. Revolut have accepted that there were delays in 
carrying out the review of the account. They have already paid Mr M £30 as a refund of his 
Metal account fees. They have also offered £50 extra. Mr M has said that he suffered 
financial hardship. As a result of the block he couldnt access his savings and investments. 
He has also said that he hardly had any money in any other financial institution. Mr M has 
also said he was unable to meet a lot of his payments for mortgage and bills due to the block 
on the account. I note that Mr M asked for a loan from a friend.
Mr M hasnt provided us with any evidence of actual financial losses incurred by him as a 
result of the delay in the review on the account. So, although I appreciate that Mr M was put 
in a difficult situation, he has been offered £80 compensation in total for the delay that 
Revolut caused. I think this amount is a reasonable amount and in line with what we would 
expect to award in similar situations. It follows I wont be increasing the amount.
In summary I know Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, but I dont think Revolut 
acted unreasonably when they carried out a review and blocked Mr Ms account. They have 
accepted that they caused a delay and they have offered £80 total compensation for that 
delay. Mr M has already received £30 of that compensation. 
My final decision
I partially uphold the complaint. I require Revolut Ltd to pay Mr M the sum of £50 as 
compensation for the delay in reviewing his account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman