DRN-3254241
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the service shed received from Yorkshire Building Society (YBS 
surrounding her ISA.
What happened
Mrs S applied for a cash ISA with YBS in April 2021. In September 2021, Mrs S wanted to 
make a further deposit into the ISA so as to use the full annual ISA allowance available to 
her, but was told that the ISA was no longer being offered by YBS and that further deposits 
therefore werent allowed. Mrs S wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint
YBS looked at Mrs Ss complaint. They didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly towards Mrs S by 
not accepting her deposit, and they confirmed that the terms of the ISA included that the 
product could be withdrawn at any time and that further deposits wouldnt be allowed past 
the time. So, YBS didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Mrs S wasnt satisfied with YBSs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that YBS had 
acted unfairly towards Mrs S in how theyd managed the situation, and so they also didnt 
uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Mrs S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mrs S to have wanted to make a 
deposit to her ISA and to have been unable to do so. However, I note that when opening this 
ISA Mrs S was provided with a product factsheet which included the following:
Rates fixed until 30 April 2022 for deposits whilst the Cash ISA remains available to 
new investors. However, the Cash ISA is a limited-offer product, which means it can 
be withdrawn without notice at any time. If you wish to make deposits into the ISA we 
suggest that you arrange this immediately to avoid disappointment.
I also note similar information in the ISA terms and conditions, and as such Im satisfied that 
Mrs S was notified that YBS may withdraw the ISA product and that further deposits into it 
wouldnt be possible following that time.
Im aware that Mrs S feels that YBS making the decision to withdraw the product for new 
customers shouldnt have affected her ability as an existing product holder to have made 
further deposits into it. But its at YBSs discretion as to whether or not it would allow existing 
product holders to make further deposits to the ISA following the withdrawal of the product. 
Additionally, given that the possibility existed for Mrs S to transfer the YBS cash ISA to a 
different ISA provider, and to then make her intended further deposit with the new provider, I 
dont feel that YBS acted unfairly towards Ms S by not accepting further deposits from her in 
this instance. And for the same reason, I also dont feel that YBS impinged on Mrs Ss ability 
to have utilised her full ISA allowance for the tax year in question.
Finally, I note some confusion as to when Mrs S applied for the ISA and when YBS made 
the decision to withdraw the product. Mrs S applied for the ISA on 3 April 2021, whereas 
YBS didnt withdraw the product until 7 April 2021. While it was the case that Mrs Ss ISA 
application wasnt processed until 12 April 2021, because the application had been received 
before the product was withdrawn, the application was processed, and the ISA opened, in-
line with the application.
This doesnt seem unreasonable to me, although I do feel that the fact that the ISA had been 
withdrawn should have been made more apparent to Mrs S in the immediate instance, rather 
than it being the case that Mrs S only learned of this fact some months later when she 
attempted to make a further deposit.
And while I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mrs S to have been unable 
to make a further deposit into her ISA in September 2021, I can only reiterate that she was 
free to transfer her ISA to another provider who would accept a further deposit at that time.
All of which means that, while I can appreciate Mrs Ss frustration here, I dont feel that any 
form of compensation for what has happened is warranted in this instance. 
It follows from the above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing YBS to take 
any further action at this time. I hope that Ms S will understand, given what Ive explained, 
why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman