DRN-2270126
The complaint
Mr C complains about the redress offered by Henderson Investment Funds Limited trading 
as Janus Henderson Investors (referred to as the business). 
In summary he says:
Although the business gave him a breakdown of the charges refunded to him, the 
business failed to address the issue of compounding.
He understands that the additional units have been bought at the price prevailing on 
17 May 2019  which gets around the problem of the increase in the unit price  but 
nowhere in the calculation supplied is there any note of the growth (in the units 
bought) to account for the compound unit growth. 
What happened
The business didnt initially uphold the complaint. In short, it said:
Based on the 2% (incorrect) charge, it worked out a shortfall of 28.04 units (as 
quoted in its letter of May 2019). 
The units were purchased at the 17 May 2019 price to ensure that Mr Cs account 
was put in the correct position had it not applied the incorrect charges.
By purchasing the unit amount, rather than a cash value, it was able to ensure the 
growth of Mr Cs holding wasnt affected by the error made. It enclosed a table which 
shows the individual figures on each distribution.   
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Following the involvement of our service, the business calculated that if the 
distributions were reinvested (without the charge) this wouldve provided Mr C with 
an additional 3.45 units. 
The business proposed to increase this offer to 4.45 units as a gesture of goodwill, to 
ensure Mr C wasnt disadvantaged in any way. 
The offer, together with the calculation, was rejected by Mr C who doesnt believe he 
has all the information needed in order to decide if he accepts this or not. 
The business confirmed that the 2% charge was made purely on the distributions that 
were being reinvested, and not the investment as a whole. 
The spreadsheet sent to Mr C shows the quarterly distribution figures, including 
columns representing the total number of the units with the 2% charge, and the total 
unit figure if the charge hadnt been made. The number of units that Mr C was 
deprived of as a result of the incorrect charge is the difference in these figures. 
The business calculated the units Mr C wouldve gained from June 2019 to 
September 2020 to ensure he wasnt placed in a detrimental position. 
The period between June 2014 (distribution 45) to September 2020 (distribution 70) 
is the correct period within which the incorrect 2% charge was made. 
The calculation from the business appears fair and reasonable and puts Mr C in the 
position he wouldve been in had he not incorrectly been charged the 2%. 
Although Mr C is concerned that there may be other clients that have been treated 
unfairly by the business, were only looking at how hes been treated and how this 
might be remedied. 
Shes satisfied the business has corrected its error and the redress offered is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr C disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he made the following points:
Despite what the investigator says about the business (apparently) correcting its 
error, after the complaint was referred to our service it admitted to a second error.  
Having looked at the statements he cant see that the units have been added so the 
business hasnt put things right. 
Hes surprised that we dont think that this business  which has a history of 
misleading its customers  should be made to tell all the affected customers about 
the second miscalculation so that they may be compensated.  
Hed like to know which regulator deals with the wider impact of the business 
behaviour on behalf of the wider customers affected. 
Our investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, she said:
The 28.04 units is for the period when the 2% charge was first made, until March 
2019. 
The spreadsheet from the business showed 3.45 extra units for the period between 
March 2019 to March 2020. 
The business increased this to 4.45 units so as not to disadvantage Mr Cs position 
as it went through the distribution cycle. 
Mr C can contact the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) about issues effecting the 
other customers. Theres a link on its website for consumers.   
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint. However, on the face of the evidence, 
and on balance, despite what Mr C says, Im satisfied that the redress offered by the 
business (following referral to our service) is broadly fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise Mr Cs 
strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided submissions to support this complaint, 
which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr C and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, 
but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, 
whats more likely than not to have happened.
I understand that in May 2014, a decision was made by the business to remove the charges 
applied to reinvested distribution across its UK fund rage. However, a review in 2019 found 
that a 2% charge continued to be applied to reinvested distributions for some of its funds, 
including the fund that Mr C was invested in. So, despite what Mr C says, the business 
accepts that it (mistakenly) took money that it wasnt entitled to.
Im mindful that the business initially calculated a shortfall of 28.04 units which I understand 
is still a correct figure according to its spreadsheet. This accounts for the period when it first 
charged the 2% in May 2014, to March 2019, when the issue was discovered. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that this time period was unreasonable. 
I understand that the number of units quoted in its May 2019 letter were calculated by 
working out the shortfall of units purchased using the incorrectly applied 2% charge. In other 
words, the number of units that Mr C couldve purchased for the price of the incorrect charge 
that had been applied, at each distribution date. 
I also understand that the business purchased these units at the 17 May 2019 price to 
ensure that Mr Cs account was placed in the correct position had it not applied the incorrect 
charge. In the circumstances I dont think thats unreasonable. Im mindful that the business 
says that it purchased the shortfall of Mr Cs units, rather than paying him cash, which meant 
it would reflect the unit growth. In the circumstances Im satisfied that broadly covers Mr Cs 
concerns about growth. 
I appreciate that following our involvement, it found that if the distributions were invested  
something it hadnt previously considered and probably should have  Mr C wouldve been 
provided with another 3.45 units, which I understand is for the period between March 2019 to 
March 2020. 
In the spirit of goodwill, I understand the business increased this figure to 4.45 units, just to 
ensure that Mr C didnt lose out. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr C wouldnt have 
invested the distributions, so I think this course of action is reasonable. 
I note the business said:
As this is a quarterly paying fund there are currently 2 distributions which are pending on 
the clients account (which is normal and in line with all other investors). These reinvest on 
average 0.03 units a time. However, to avoid being on the back foot with having to 
compensate Mr C (name anonymised), as the distribution goes through the distribution 
cycle, eg: fund goes XD and then the distribution rates are pending etc. SS&C are proposing 
to increase that unit amount to 4.45 to ensure Mr C is in the best position possible, ready for 
the next distribution cycle.
Im mindful the business confirmed that the 2% charge was made purely on the distributions 
that were being reinvested, and not the investment (as a whole), which would explain, 
notwithstanding Mr Cs concerns, how hes ended up with additional units. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think the business latest response is fair and 
reasonable, and broadly addresses Mr Cs concerns. And just because the business hasnt 
been able to provide a response thats to Mr Cs satisfaction, doesnt mean that it hasnt 
taken steps to provide a reasonable answer.  Im mindful of Mr Cs concerns about other customers but in this case, Im only considering 
the business behaviour in relation to him, and I have no details of what the business may or 
may not have done in relation to other customers. I understand that Mr C has been provided 
with details of the FCA website if he wishes to pursue this matter further. 
I appreciate the business hasnt been able to provide the information as quickly as Mr C 
wouldve liked. But in the circumstances, I dont think this means the complaint should be 
upheld. Im mindful that it was the business that spotted this error in the first place and it has 
taken steps to ensure that its dealt with this reasonably so that Mr C doesnt lose out.  For 
the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that it has. 
I appreciate Mr C will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I 
realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im unable 
to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. However, I think the redress offered 
by Henderson Investment Funds Limited trading as Janus Henderson Investors is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman