DRN-4119350
The complaint
Miss B is complaining that she has been racially discriminated against by an adviser at 
Barclays Bank UK PLC, and that her account has been closed.
What happened
In November 2021 Miss B visited a branch of Barclays to transfer some funds to another 
bank. The transfer didnt go ahead on that day. Barclays say this was because Miss B was 
required to speak to their fraud team before the transfer could be completed, but when they 
called her she didnt speak to them.
The next day Miss B visited a different branch to complete the transfer. The adviser asked 
her to show her debit card to authorise the transaction. She didnt have it with her so she 
needed to return home to get it. When she returned to the branch to complete the transfer, 
she was told a fraud check needed to be completed. The branch manager called the fraud 
team and put Miss B on the phone to authorise the transaction, and the transfer was 
completed.
Miss B complained to Barclays about how she was treated. She said, in summary, that the 
adviser shed dealt with had treated her differently due to her race, and had shouted at her. 
Barclays replied to say theyd investigated Miss Bs concerns, and the staff members at the 
branch had said Miss B had herself been racist, abusive and disruptive by throwing leaflets 
in the branch. They said they hadnt found any evidence that branch staff were abusive to 
her. 
Barclays then wrote to Miss B giving 30 days notice that her account would be closed due to 
unacceptable behaviour (which was later amended to 60 days notice.) Her account was 
closed in February 2022.
Miss B was unhappy with Barclays decision to close her account, and she brought her 
complaint to us. She doesnt think she behaved inappropriately in the branch. She says, in 
summary, that the adviser discriminated against her on the grounds of race, and shouted at 
her and intimidated her because she asked for a receipt. She says that she hadnt needed to 
present her debit card to request the transfer in the other branch shed been to, and she 
feels this was part of the discriminatory treatment. She also says that she feels that the 
additional fraud checks Barclays asked for before completing the transaction were outside of 
the usual process and discriminatory. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Bs complaint, but didnt uphold it. Because Miss B didnt 
agree, her complaint has been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Identification and fraud check
The fraud check was generated through Barclays system  and prompted a call to Miss B 
from the fraud team to verify the transaction. Barclays say that Miss B cancelled this call 
after attempting the transaction in the first branch, so the transaction couldnt be completed 
on that day. But when Miss B visited a different branch the next day, she was still required to 
speak to the fraud team before the transaction could go ahead.
I do think its clear from the conversation the branch manager had with the fraud team, 
before Miss B was put on the line, that this was a necessary check required by Barclays 
fraud prevention procedures, and the check wasnt instigated by the adviser Miss B spoke 
to. The fraud adviser also explained to Miss B that the check was due to the value of the 
transaction and the fact it was being paid to a new account  and they wanted to double 
check she wasnt the victim of a scam. 
Barclays has internal procedures for checking whether transactions are likely to be 
fraudulent. This is for Barclays to decide and its not information they need to share. But 
bearing in mind the value of Miss Bs transaction, I dont think it was out of the ordinary for 
Barclays to require a check by the fraud team on this occasion. Im satisfied that the fraud 
check was prompted by the nature and value of the transaction, rather than on the grounds 
of Miss Bs race.
The branch manager has explained that its their usual process in the branch to request to 
see the debit card related to the account if one has been issued, as part of their identity 
checks. I can understand Miss Bs frustration in being asked to provide this when she says 
she wasnt asked for it in the first branch she visited. But I dont think it was unreasonable for 
the adviser to ask for this, and Ive not seen anything else to lead me to believe she was 
treated differently to how another customer of the branch would have been treated in the 
same situation.
Incident in branch
Miss Bs account of what happened here appears to conflict with the recollection of the 
members of staff in the branch at the time as theyve described it to the branch manager 
(who wasnt present the first time Miss B came into the branch that day.) The branch 
manager says that Miss B made comments about the advisers race and background and 
threw leaflets around  and that this was witnessed by four members of staff. Miss B says 
that it was the adviser who shouted at and intimidated her.
Barclays say Miss B can be heard making comments about the adviser in the background of 
the recording of the call with the fraud team. Ive listened to the call and I can hear Miss B 
discussing the transaction with a third party, but I cant make out any of the comments 
Barclays say Miss B made about the adviser she had been speaking to. But Im also bearing 
in mind the branch managers statement that four members of staff had told her about 
witnessing Miss B throwing leaflets across the banking hall. And when the branch manager 
spoke to the fraud team while Miss B was in the branch, she said that Miss B was behaving 
aggressively, and that she was keen to complete the transaction so Miss B would leave the 
branch. 
It does seem that the branch managers feelings during the incident were that Miss Bs 
actions were inappropriate, to the extent that she wanted her to leave the branch as soon as possible. And because of the incident, she decided to issue Miss B notice that her account 
would be closed. 
I can see Miss B feels strongly that Barclays have discriminated against her on the grounds 
of race. I can understand why Miss B might feel this way, but having looked at everything I 
dont think theyve done so. Generally, a business can decide to close a customers account, 
if they give the required notice under the terms and conditions  as Barclays did here. And 
taking everything into account, I dont think Barclays have been unfair or unreasonable in 
making this decision.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss B, but I dont think Barclays need to do anything else here.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman