DRN-3738607
The complaint
Mr D complains Godiva Mortgages Limited misled him about the additional lending theyd 
give him on his buy to let property; he incurred fees based on what they said; he disputes 
the valuation Godiva obtained; and hes unhappy with the service they provided. 
What happened
Mr D owns a property that is subject to a buy to let (BTL) mortgage from Godiva Mortgages 
Limited taken out in March 2021. In October 2021 Mr D applied for further lending of £20,000 
through a broker to help fund another purchase. He thought the property he was borrowing 
against was worth £190,000 and its rental income was £795 at the time. But based on the 
lower mortgage valuation Godiva obtained, they were only prepared to lend around an 
additional £4,000.
Unfortunately, when they wrote to Mr D on 29 October, Godiva said theyd lend up to around 
£19,000. They let Mr Ds broker know theyd made a mistake shortly afterwards. But they 
didnt tell Mr D direct. 
Mr D spoke to Godiva by phone on 3 November to discuss the £19,000 loan. He asked for 
information about the monthly payments based on a loan of that amount. And he rang back 
to confirm he wanted to go ahead with the application. 
Mr D was unhappy when he discovered later Godiva would only lend around £4,000. Based 
on his understanding hed borrow £19,000 hed incurred fees in relation to his purchase. 
Without the loan hed hoped for, he risked losing the property he was planning to buy and, 
with it, the potential for rental income and a development opportunity. Although Godiva 
issued a formal offer for around £4,000, he decided not to accept it. 
Mr D complained to Godiva about what had happened. He felt the letter Godiva issued on  
29 October was an offer they should honour. He said information Godiva gave him on          
3 November confirmed it was. And he felt one of Godivas representatives spoke to him 
rudely that day, so he hadnt heard what hed said. 
Mr D was unhappy with the value Godivas valuers had put on the property. He didnt think it 
was accurate bearing in mind the values of other properties in the area he considered to be 
comparable. And he was unhappy Godiva didnt allow him to speak to the valuers direct to 
discuss things.
Godiva apologised to Mr D for putting the wrong figure in the 29 October letter. They 
explained the letter wasnt an offer and said theyd told Mr D that. They didnt consider their 
representative had spoken to him inappropriately. And they said theyd been entitled to rely 
on the valuers professional opinion about the the value of the property in coming to their 
lending decision. 
Godiva apologised for the confusion theyd caused Mr D and paid him £750 to compensate 
him for the distress and inconvenience hed suffered. Since Mr D was unhappy with Godivas 
response to his complaint, he brought it to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Our investigator said the 29 October letter wasnt an offer to lend; Godiva were entitled to 
rely on the valuers advice in deciding what theyd lend to Mr D; and Godivas apology and 
the compensation theyd paid Mr D was fair to put things right. Since Mr D didnt agree, his 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I may not mention here everything the parties have told us. That simply reflects the informal 
nature of the service we provide, and no discourtesy is intended. I appreciate Mr Ds 
strength of feeling about what happened. And Id like to reassure him, and Godiva, that Ive 
taken everything theyve said into account in coming to my decision. 
Mr Ds raised some concerns about Godivas recent actions which I understand relate to 
another application. They arent part of this complaint and I dont address them here. Mr D 
would need to raise them with Godiva before we became involved if they couldnt be 
resolved.
As Ill explain, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator in relation to this complaint 
for broadly the same reasons. Ill address Mr Ds concerns using sub-headings to make 
things clear.
The letter dated 29 October 2021 
The 29 October letter said that the rental valuation of the property in its present condition 
was less than Godivas minimum requirements for a BTL; in view of that, the maximum 
amount Godiva could consider lending was around £19,000; and Please confirm that you 
wish to proceed with your application on this basis.
I acknowledge Mr D didnt understand the status of the letter when he received it. But Im 
satisfied the letter was an indication of what Godiva would consider lending Mr D up to 
around £19,000, subject to them considering his application. The letter invited Mr D to 
confirm he wanted to go ahead with the application. Until the application had been 
considered, there was no guarantee Godiva would offer to lend the money. 
The letter was meant to enclose a summary of the valuers report. I understand that was 
missing from Mr Ds copy, although Godiva said the letter would have been autogenerated 
and the complete copy ought to have reached him. 
Mr Ds told us hed received previous offers from Godiva in similar form and provided as an 
example a more recent letter hes received. I havent seen the earlier letters. But the 
summary that ought to have reached him as part of the 29 October letter, and one that forms 
part of the recent example, are similar. Both contain an Important Notice, which includes a 
warning that Neither the payment of a valuation fee, nor the release of this summary to you, 
binds us to make an advance. I think its clear from the wording of the letters and this 
warning that the letters arent offers. Based on Mr Ds evidence, I think its reasonable to 
think the previous letters contained similar information even if it was missing from the copy of 
the 29 October letter he received.
Godiva sent Mr D an offer on 12 November for a little less than the £4,000 following 
consideration of his application by their underwriters. Id expect any previous offers to have 
been in a similar format to that, setting out detailed information about, for example, the terms 
and conditions of the mortgage, rate of interest hed have to pay and the amount of the monthly payments. 
So, I think Mr D probably had enough information before he got the 29 October letter for him 
to understand that it wasnt an offer. But even if he didnt, and although he didnt see the 
valuation summary at the time, I think Godiva made it clear to him the 29 October letter 
wasnt an offer before he acted upon it.
Godiva let Mr Ds brokers know on 1 November that the £19,000 figure in the letter was a 
mistake and they were only prepared to lend the lower amount. I think it was reasonable for 
Godiva to think the broker would pass that information on to Mr D since hed made his 
application through the broker initially.
Even if Mr D hadnt heard from his brokers, he called Godiva on 3 November to clarify what 
his monthly payments would be based on borrowing the additional £19,000. He said hed 
received the 29 October letter that day, so he couldnt have acted on it sooner. 
I agree Godiva ought to have pointed out then the figure was wrong. And providing him with 
the monthly payments will have confirmed his understanding Godiva were willing to lend him 
an additional £19,000. But the status of the letter was made clear to him on the second call 
when he rang to say he wanted to go ahead. The Godiva representative explained hed refer 
the application to underwriters for consideration and that an offer would be issued after that; 
and Mr D acknowledged that. So, I think Mr D understood, or ought to have done, that he 
hadnt got an offer at the time.
The valuation
I note Mr Ds concerns the valuation didnt take into account improvements hed made to the 
property or the values of what he considers were comparable properties. And he thought 
Godivas appointed surveyors were undervaluing properties more widely. I cant comment on 
the valuation evidence. And its not within my powers to consider a complaint about the 
surveyors or their practices. I can only consider Mr Ds individual complaint about Godiva.
Im satisfied the valuers Godiva appointed were suitably qualified and independent of them. 
It was reasonable for them to rely on the professional opinion of the valuers as to the value 
of the property at the time  not what its value might be in the future, which would be 
speculative - in coming to a decision about the amount they were prepared to lend. 
I think Godiva acted fairly and reasonably when Mr Ds broker was unhappy with the initial 
desktop valuation by asking the valuers to carry out a full valuation. I understand Mr D was 
disappointed Godiva didnt put him in direct contact with the valuers to discuss his concerns 
as theyd said they would originally when they were discussing his complaint. But I dont 
think it was unreasonable for them to change their minds about that. The valuers were acting 
on Godivas behalf, not his. They passed on his concerns. And they let Mr D know the 
outcome of the review by more senior staff at the valuer, which found the valuation was an 
appropriate valuation and within an acceptable range of values for properties in the area 
reflecting the size, condition and location.
Bearing the above in mind, I think Godiva acted fairly and reasonably in relation to the 
valuation. Ultimately, it was a commercial decision for Godiva about what it would be 
prepared to lend to Mr D and the risks they were prepared to take in relation to the security 
the property offered for their loan. I think they came to their decision fairly based on 
professional valuation advice. And they reasonably looked for other ways of helping Mr D go 
ahead with his purchase.
Mr Ds financial lossesMr D feels Godiva should reimburse broker and solicitors fees he incurred and should be 
compensated for the opportunities he lost when his purchase fell through. 
Any fees Mr D incurred before he made the additional borrowing application to Godiva would 
have been payable whatever decision Godiva reached on that application. So, I wouldnt ask 
them to reimburse those. 
Mr D knew on 3 November Godiva would only lend once their underwriters had reviewed the 
application and issued an offer. Mortgage applications are subject to lending criteria that are 
wider than just the valuation of the property. And there was no guarantee whether Godiva 
would lend, or how much, until a formal offer was issued. So, any fees Mr D incurred before 
he had a formal offer were at his own risk, and I dont think its fair to ask Godiva to 
reimburse them.
I acknowledge Godivas complaints handler said shed consider the fees Mr D had incurred. 
But she didnt guarantee to pay them. And I dont think its reasonable to ask Godiva to 
reimburse them based on what she said. 
I appreciate Mr D was upset he couldnt go ahead with his purchase. Godiva arent to blame 
for that, as Ive explained. But even if I thought theyd treated Mr D unfairly in declining to 
lend the amount he required, I probably wouldnt have asked them to reimburse him for the 
opportunities he lost out on. Property transactions can fail for many reasons. So, the losses 
Mr D claims are likely to have been too speculative for him to recover from Godiva. 
Distress and inconvenience
Godiva acknowledged theyd made a mistake in the 29 October letter. I understand Mr D 
was under the impression theyd lend him £19,000 based on what it said, even if it wasnt a 
formal offer. 
Even though Godiva had let the broker know the correct position, Mr D still thought hed be 
able to borrow the £19,000 when he spoke to Godiva on 3 November. The first 
representative gave him details of his monthly payments based on a loan of that amount. 
She should have told him then they werent prepared to lend the £19,000. If he hadnt rung 
back later, he wouldnt have been told he hadnt received a formal offer that he could rely on.
I dont agree the second representative Mr D spoke to on 3 November used an inappropriate 
tone with him. He was simply explaining the process Godiva would go through since he 
wanted to go ahead with the application. Im satisfied he told Mr D his application would be 
considered by underwriters before an offer was issued and that Mr D understood that. So, I 
think it was clear to Mr D then he didnt have an offer. 
But I didnt hear the representative tell Mr D the amount Godiva would lend was around 
£4,000, rather than the £19,000 he was expecting. So, I can understand he was 
disappointed to find that out a few days later. I think Godiva ought to have managed his 
expectations better that day.
Mr D became frustrated when he discussed things with the complaints handler. He was 
understandably disappointed with the difficulties he faced in relation to his purchase. And he 
was frustrated with the valuation Godiva had received. But I think she explained Godivas 
position clearly and reasonably addressed his concerns. 
Godivas errors were largely limited to the mistake in 29 October letter and their failure to 
explain the correct figure they would lend when Mr D spoke to them on 3 November. But he 
knew then he had to wait for a formal offer. He discovered the correct figure shortly afterwards and Godiva responded to his complaint within a couple of months. I think the 
£750 Godiva has already paid Mr D was fair to resolve his complaint.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr D will be disappointed, I dont uphold his 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman