DRN-3352494
The complaint
Miss C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc refused her request to dispute a payment she 
made to a merchant under the Visa chargeback scheme.
What happened
Miss C was having some work completed on her home. She had contracted a merchant, 
whom Ill refer to as E, to install some doors. She paid for this work from the current account 
she held with HSBC.
But Miss C was unhappy with the quality of the work. She tried to resolve this with E but 
wasnt satisfied with its response, so she approached HSBC and asked it to try and recover 
her money. But HSBC said it was unable to help, so Miss C made a complaint.
In its final response letter HSBC said it was unable to recover her funds through the 
chargeback scheme as this only applied to Visa and Mastercard transactions. As she had 
paid for the doors by a manual payment direct from her account this wasnt covered by the 
scheme. It said her only option was to work with E to try and retrieve her funds, or speak to 
Trading Standards.
Miss C was unhappy with this so brought the complaint to our service. But our investigator 
thought that HSBC were correct in saying it was unable to raise a chargeback, as the 
dispute she had with E wasnt covered by the card scheme rules. 
Miss C didnt agree, so the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to say I have considerable sympathy with Miss C and the position she has 
found herself in. She has paid for improvements to be made to her home, but has found the 
work to be substandard. So I can fully understand why she feels she should be able to 
recoup her money.
I think it might be helpful if I explain what a chargeback scheme is, and how it works:
A chargeback is where a consumer disputes a transaction and asks the card provider
- HSBC in Miss Cs case - to claim the money back from the bank account of the business
that provided the goods or service. A chargeback isnt a legal right, but is a voluntary
scheme operated by some card providers, including VISA and Mastercard. And the scheme 
is subject to eligibility rules.
But it is important to note that the transaction that the consumer asks the card provider to 
reverse must be made under the card scheme (Visa or Mastercard). In Miss Cs case, I can 
see from her statement that she made the payment to E manually, as a bill payment. This 
means it wasnt a Visa or Mastercard payment and so isnt afforded the protection provided 
by either of them. So even if HSBC had raised the chargeback (and Im satisfied they 
couldnt) the card scheme wouldve rejected the request as the payment wasnt made 
through them.
So for all the reasons above, Im satisfied that HSBC were right in their refusal to raise a 
chargeback for Miss C.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman