The complaint
Mr P says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender), irresponsibly lent to 
him. Mr P says his financial circumstances werent sufficiently checked to make sure the 
lending as affordable for him. He says he was already in financial difficulty when he took the 
borrowing.        
What happened
This complaint is about one payday loan followed by three instalment loans Mr Lender 
provided to Mr P between March 2014 and February 2018. Because of the breaks between 
some of the lending, there were three chains. Mr Ps borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 27/03/2014 15/07/2014 1* £500.00
Break
2 19/12/2015 15/09/2016 6 £400.00
3 31/10/2016 15/05/2017 6 £350.00
Break
4 13/02/2018 24/08/2018 6 £450.00
*For loan one, Mr P wasnt able to repay the loan as planned and needed to defer (rollover)
his repayment on three occasions by paying some additional interest.
Mr Ps complaint was assessed by one of adjudicators who partially upheld the complaint. 
They didnt think loans one and three should have been given. Loan one because it 
appeared Mr P was having problems managing his money and was borrowing from other 
short-term credit providers as well as Mr Lender. For loan three, there was evidence Mr P 
had difficulty repaying loan two and Mr Lender should have been aware of this as it had set 
up a payment plan for him. 
In response to the assessment, Mr P asked why loans two and four werent upheld. But after 
receiving clarification from the adjudicator, Mr P said he accepted the findings. 
DRN-1701390Mr Lender didnt agree with the assessment but did offer to uphold the complaint for loan 
three. We put the offer to Mr P, but he didnt wish to accept it.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
After receiving clarification from the adjudicator for the reasons why his complaint about 
loans two and four werent upheld, Mr P confirmed he would abide by the adjudicators 
findings. So there doesnt appear to be any outstanding issues about these two loans. But 
the loans were part of the borrowing relationship Mr P had with Mr Lender. So, it is 
something I will take into account when considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint. And after doing so, Ive decided to 
uphold the complaint in part. Ill explain why.
I should first confirm I am satisfied that there were three chains of lending. There were 
significant gaps between loans one and two and again between loans three and four. So, 
after each break I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr Lender to have concluded that Mr P had overcome whatever the financial difficulties were that caused him to take this type of 
credit in the first instance. 
Before Mr Lender gave the lending for loan one, it asked Mr P about his income and 
expenditure and also obtained information about him from a third-party credit reference 
agency. It said its checks were proportionate. But I disagree. As the loan was to be repaid 
within one month, when taking account of the interest that would be payable as well as the 
principal amount lent, this accounted for a significant proportion of Mr Ps monthly income. 
Mr Ps income was recorded as being £2,500 and expenses as £1,019 (mortgage/rent, 
electricity/gas/water and other lending). I think the total to be repaid - £675  was significant 
enough for it to have caused Mr Lender to have out more about Mr Ps financial position to 
check if the lending was affordable for him. 
And if it had carried out further checks, I think it likely Mr Lender would have seen that Mr P 
was making repayments to several other short-term credit providers. This was a clear 
indication that Mr P was struggling with his finances and I dont agree the lending was 
affordable for him. So, I dont think Mr Lender should have given Mr P loan one. 
When Mr P returned for further lending at loan two, he was granted an instalment loan which 
was to be repaid over six months and was for £100 less than loan one. So, the monthly 
repayments were much less and dont appear unaffordable. And bearing in mind this was 
the first loan in a new chain of lending I dont think it would have been proportionate for  Mr 
Lender to have asked Mr P for the amount of information that would be needed to have 
shown the lending was unsustainable before agreeing to the loan. 
But Mr P did get into financial difficulty and Mr Lender arranged for a payment plan to be set 
up. Mr P did pay off the loan a few months later than the term agreed at the outset of the 
lending. However, Mr P then returned for further borrowing at loan three just over a month 
after loan two had been repaid. At this point Mr Lender would have known that Mr P was in 
financial difficulty and I dont think it should have agreed to further allow Mr P to borrow loan 
three. I think there was a significant risk Mr P would struggle with the repayments. 
So, like the adjudicator, I dont think loans one and three should have been given. 
Putting things right  what Mr Lender needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr P paid on loans one and three;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 
remove any negative information about loans one and three from Mr Ps credit file;
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ps complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman