DRN-4119463
The complaint
Miss Y complains that Mortgage Light Ltd (ML) caused unnecessary delays in connection 
with her mortgage application.
What happened
Miss Y says ML caused delays to her Help-to-Buy (HTB) mortgage application. She 
complains that this led to the interest rate on her mortgage being higher than it would have 
been if the mortgage application had been decided sooner.  
ML accepts that it caused some avoidable delays, but it doesnt think it was responsible for 
Miss Y missing out on the interest rate she wanted. However, to reflect its mistake it offered 
to refund the £349 mortgage application fee Miss Y paid.
Miss Y remained unhappy and raised a complaint with the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into the matter. He thought that in broad terms ML was responsible 
for a six week delay in Miss Y getting the mortgage she wanted although it would have 
always needed some time to ask Miss Y for the information and send it on to the mortgage 
provider. In the circumstances he thought MLs offer to refund her mortgage application fee 
was fair and reasonable.
Miss Y remained unhappy. She asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, 
so it has been passed to me to decide.
For completeness I will say here that I can see that Miss Y has also made a complaint about 
the lender. She thinks the lender was also responsible for delays. That matter is being 
considered by us separately in another complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Miss Y applied for a mortgage in early 2022. In February 2022, the mortgage provider 
offered to give Miss Y a mortgage for £151,875 plus fees. The interest rate was fixed at 
1.44% for two years.
After that Miss Y changed her mind and decided she wanted to buy a different property. In 
May 2022 ML was asked to continue with her mortgage application but apply it to the new 
property. Miss Y wanted to borrow £176,250. 
The mortgage provider didnt think Miss Y could afford to buy the second property, so it 
declined Miss Ys mortgage application on 18 May 2022. 
Miss Y decided to appeal the mortgage providers decision. She needed to provide 
additional information to the mortgage provider about her income. Miss Y provided ML with 
the information at the end of June 2022 and ML provided it to the mortgage provider a few 
days later. The mortgage provider asked some more questions after that, and the mortgage 
application was approved around a month later - in early August 2022. The mortgage 
provider issued the mortgage offer later that month.
Miss Y completed her property purchase in October 2022.
ML would have needed some time to get the information it needed from Miss Y and pass it 
on to the mortgage provider. However ML accepts it shouldnt have taken it so long to ask 
Miss Y for the information required for the appeal. ML has apologised for that, accepting that 
around six weeks was an unreasonable amount of time. Miss Y also blames ML for another 
week of delays. Theres no doubt that the delays ML caused contributed to the fact that the 
mortgage application wasnt approved until August 2022. The question I need to consider 
was whether I think its likely that Miss Y would have been in a position to complete her 
house purchase by 29 July 2022 (the date the February 2022 offer containing the 1.44% 
interest rate product expired). Thats because Miss Y had hoped to take advantage of the 
1.44% interest rate attached to that offer and apply it to the mortgage for £176,250. But she 
needed to complete her house purchase by 29 July 2022 to do that.
Miss Y has told us that if shed known she had to complete by 29 July 2022 to get a better 
interest rate she would have made sure that happened. She says the relevant property was 
ready for occupation at that time. But she didnt rush to complete the purchase, as she didnt 
think she needed to.
I appreciate Miss Ys point of view. But I think its unlikely that Miss Y would have been able 
to complete her house purchase by 29 July 2022 even if she had decided to prioritise that. 
There were approximately ten weeks between the time the mortgage provider declined her 
mortgage application in mid-May 2022 and 29 July 2022. To complete in that period Miss Y 
would have needed to provide the extra information the mortgage provider required in 
connection with the appeal, wait for the new information to be considered and assessed by 
the mortgage provider (ML says it took the mortgage provider ten days to review documents 
after each request around that time), get a valuation for the property (in this case it took the 
mortgage provider two weeks to do that), change her solicitor details and complete all other 
necessary processes to purchase the relevant property (e.g. complete legal searches). 
Miss Y has also told us about delays caused by her solicitor and a two week delay by her 
mortgage provider in August 2022. So Ive also taken into account those factors too. 
I can see from what Miss Y has already told us that she broadly accepts that its unlikely that 
she would have been able to complete her house purchase by 29 July 2022. But shes still 
unhappy about what happened.
For completeness, I also think its helpful for me to say here that if Miss Y had tried to 
complete her house purchase by 29 July and realised she wasnt going to achieve that, she 
would have been required to select a new interest rate product at that time. On 7 July 2022, 
Santander changed the product range it offered and introduced the interest rate product 
Miss Y selected in connection with the August 2022 offer. So Miss Y wouldnt have been 
able to select a lower interest rate with the mortgage provider unless shed asked for a new 
interest rate product before 7 July 2022. I think its unlikely that she would have done this. 
Thats because to have done this Miss Y would have needed to accept that she wouldnt 
meet the 29 July 2022 deadline before 7 July 2022. Im also conscious that the mortgage 
provider has said it would usually only offer a new interest rate product in the week before a 
previous product was due to expire.
So while I appreciate that Miss Y is likely to be disappointed by this decision, I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable for me to hold ML responsible for the fact that Miss Y wasnt 
able to get a mortgage with an initial fixed interest rate of 1.44% with her £176, 250 mortgage. In the circumstances I think MLs offer to compensate Miss Y for its delay by 
refunding the £349 mortgage application fee Miss Y paid is fair and reasonable. £349 is in 
line with what this service would say is reasonable for mistakes that have had a moderate 
impact on a consumer.
Putting things right
I think the offer ML has made to refund the £349 mortgage application fee Miss Y paid is fair 
and reasonable. To put things right it should pay her this money if, it hasnt already done so.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I require Mortgage Light Ltd to refund the £349 mortgage 
application fee Miss Y paid, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman