DRN-2495348
The complaint
Ms S complains that the car she acquired, via a conditional sale agreement with Close 
Brothers Limited, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2019, Ms S entered into a five-year conditional sale agreement, with Close 
Brothers, for a used car. The car was nearly nine years old and had a mileage of 39,000.
In February 2020, the car failed its MOT due to the condition of the rear tyres and its horn 
not working. And Ms S was then advised to take the car to a garage for the tyres to have a 
tracking and alignment check. She told the garage that the car felt odd to drive. 
The garage put the car up on its ramp and found that the rear tyres were heavily worn on the 
inner edges, and that there was something wrong with the way the nearside rear wheel was 
sitting in relation to the wheel arch. The garage checked the tracking and found 1mm of toe 
out on the nearside rear and 8.5mm of toe out on the offside rear. It said that there was no 
visual damage to the rear beam but considered there was evidence of bodywork having 
been undertaken on the nearside rear. It said that, in its opinion, it believed the rear beam 
was bent causing the toe issue with the N/S/R wheel. The garage prepared a short report 
for Ms S.
Ms S contacted Close Brothers who asked her to have the car further inspected. She took 
the car to the garage that had done the cars MOT. This garage prepared a more detailed 
report and took photos of the car. This second garage said that, in its opinion, the whole of 
the nearside had suffered a major impact, the sill had been repaired but not correctly 
leaving door gaps not to be up to standard, the paint finish was appalling and there 
damage clearly seen to the nearside rear suspension/rear beam resulting in the wheel 
alignment to be untrue. This garage said the damage the car had suffered, and which had 
been poorly repaired, had occurred prior to the point of sale to Ms S due to the tell-tale 
signs and corrosion in place. 
Ms S provided a copy of this report to Close Brothers who had concerns about its validity, as 
no damage to the car had been recorded on its MOT. It arranged for the car to be 
independently inspected.
The independent engineer said that the garage who had prepared the second report had 
confirmed that the damage it had recorded wasnt significant enough to be have been 
recorded on the MOT. The engineer said, in their opinion, there was no evidence of any 
impact damage or accident repairs, the door and panels were all flush, all gaps were even, 
and the paint colour and tone were even. There was no evident defect with the cars 
suspension. The engineer also recorded that they had found the tyres at the rear to be 
unevenly worn, and that the front tyres could have been swapped to the rear, though there 
was no evidence to confirm that. The engineer concluded that the condition of the tyres was 
commensurate with the cars age and mileage.
Close Brothers didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint, as it said no faults had been identified as 
being present or developing at the point of sale. Ms S disagreed with Close Brothers view 
and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Ms Ss complaint should be upheld. He said that, 
while he thought there was now a fault with the car, that didnt mean it hadnt been of 
satisfactory quality when supplied to Ms S. He said of the three reports provided he found 
the independent engineers report to be more persuasive.
Ms S says that the investigators view is unfair and so, the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances .
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Here, the car wasn't new, being around nine years old and with a mileage of 39,000. I 
think that, taking into account these things, a reasonable person would have expected 
there to be issues with maintenance and repair since components of the car would have 
been subject to wear and tear through use. So, unlike a new car, there wouldnt be an 
expectation that the car was fault free.
Tyres are a component, like brakes, that will wear and need replacement, but Ms S says 
that the car is faulty due to a past impact that has left the rear beam bent. She says she 
has provided two reports which set out the condition of the car, and that she was unaware 
there had been any accidental damage to the car when she acquired it.
Close Brothers says it is relying on the inspection undertaken by an independent 
engineer, which concluded that the wear to the tyres relates to the age and mileage of the 
car, and not any fault that had been present at the point of sale. It says that the second 
garage has exaggerated its findings. 
Where evidence is contradictory then I have to decide what is the most likely thing to have 
happened. 
Here, the evidence the car was involved in an impact comes from the second garages 
report. The first garage said it couldnt see that the rear beam was bent, although they 
suspected it. It thought that bodywork may have been undertaken on the nearside rear 
due to the excessive amounts of seam sealer present on the box section. However, I 
dont have a photo of what was found, and this finding isnt repeated by the second 
garage or the independent engineer. Sealant could be present for a number of reasons, 
so I cant say that this means the car was involved in an impact at the rear.The second garage has provided a more detailed report and photos, but I dont think the 
photos support the findings of this garage. For instance, it reports the paint finish was 
appalling, the door gaps were not up to standard and that damage was clear to the 
nearside rear suspension and rear beam. The paintwork, although I accept has some 
rippling on the sill, appears even in tone and colour in the other photos. Ms S also hadnt 
raised any issues with the paintwork prior to her complaint about the tyres.
Taking into account the age of the car I dont think I can reasonably say that the condition 
of the paintwork is appalling, or that there is evidence of a poor repair following an impact. 
When looking at the photos, I think that the doors appear to be closed flush with the body 
of the car, there arent any visible gaps.
Ive also noted that neither the first garage, nor the independent engineer, reported any 
clear damage to the rear beam. This also wasnt reported on the cars MOT, which was 
undertaken by the second garage. Neither is there any mention of corrosion in the other 
reports or on the MOT. I therefore think that Close Brothers was acting reasonably when it 
had concerns over this report and, on balance, I also prefer the independent engineers 
report.
While I accept that the car has unevenly worn rear tyres and the rear wheels are out of 
alignment, I dont think I can reasonably say this is due to an impact the car suffered prior 
to the date of purchase. There is no record of an accident, (the HPI check was clear), and 
I am not giving much weight to the second garages report for the reasons stated above. 
I also dont have sufficient evidence to say that this fault with the wheels had been present 
or developing since Ms S acquired the car. No issues were identified at the MOT prior to 
the point of sale, and Ms S has been able to use the car for a year and driven 11,000 
miles in it, before she noticed there was an issue with how the car was handling. Wheels 
can need alignment for a number of reasons due to wear, as opposed to there being an 
inherent fault.
So, while I appreciate my decision will be of disappointment to Ms S, I am accepting the 
findings of the independent engineer that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
sale. Im not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Ms Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman