DRN-3994789
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc misadvised its 
director that he was personally responsible for repaying its Bounce Back Loan.
As B is in liquidation, the complaint is authorised by its liquidators  but has been dealt with 
primarily by the companys director, who Ill refer to as Mr B.
What happened
When the repayment due on Bs Bounce Back Loan in April 2022 was missed, HSBC sent a 
letter to advise B of this. The letter was addressed to Mr B, albeit listing B within the address.
Mr B took the letter to be addressed to him personally, understanding that HSBC was 
holding him responsible for repaying money owed by B. As the letter also explained that 
information about missed repayments could be reported to credit reference agencies, he 
was concerned that his own credit record could be at risk. So he complained to HSBC.
In its response, HSBC told Mr B that the loan agreement said the individual was 
responsible for repaying the loan and therefore that he was liable for the repayments. Mr B 
sought to challenge this  pointing out to the bank that the agreement named B as the 
borrower  but HSBC maintained its position. So Mr B referred the matter to us.
HSBC then realised it had made a mistake. While it said that the April 2022 letter had been 
addressed to Mr B purely in his capacity as Bs director, it acknowledged that its response to 
the subsequent complaint had caused confusion. In recognition of this, and the time spent 
dealing with the matter, the bank offered to pay compensation of £150.
As Mr B didnt want to accept HSBCs offer, one of our investigators reviewed the complaint. 
While she could see how some confusion had arisen in respect of the April 2022 letter, she 
thought it had been addressed to Mr B as Bs director in the manner shed expect. The bank 
had then misinformed B in response to the complaint, which had put it to some 
inconvenience  but she thought the £150 it had offered to pay B was fair compensation for 
this. Noting Mr Bs description of how the matter had impacted him personally, she explained 
that B was the eligible complainant under our rules and so we could only look at how the 
company had been affected. 
Mr B didnt accept our investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think HSBCs offer to pay B compensation of £150 is a fair way to resolve 
this complaint. I say this because:
I dont think there was anything wrong with the letter HSBC sent to B in April 2022. It 
was clearly addressed to him in his capacity as the companys director  bearing the 
companys name in the address field.
Mr B genuinely mistook the letter to read that HSBC was holding him personally 
responsible for Bs loan and was therefore concerned at the possible consequences 
of this. He sought to query this with the bank  albeit by way of complaint  and was 
then misadvised to the effect that he was indeed personally liable for the loan. That 
was incorrect. And when he challenged it, he was misadvised a second time.
HSBCs errors in this regard put B to some inconvenience, in having to follow up with 
the bank, and then us, to confirm the position. Its right that HSBC compensates B for 
this, and to that end I think £150 is fair.
I understand Mr B doesnt think this level of compensation is sufficient, particularly 
bearing in mind the hourly rate he would typically charge. But we dont generally 
award compensation based on a complainants hourly rate  not least as, in pursuing 
the complaint, they wont have been engaged in conducting the activity for which they 
charge that rate. Rather, we look at the overall impact that the financial businesss 
mistake had. And while I accept that dealing with this matter wouldve taken Mr B 
away from Bs day-to-day activities, Ive not seen that it caused a loss of business 
such that a separate award for financial loss ought to be made.
Much of Mr Bs claim for further compensation is based on how the matter impacted 
him personally, most notably his concern at the prospect of having to repay the loan 
and adverse information being recorded on his credit file if he didnt. But I cant make 
an award to him in his personal capacity  as it is B who is the eligible complainant 
under our rules. And as B is a limited company, it cannot suffer upset or distress. It is 
only, therefore, a matter of compensating B for the inconvenience it was caused by 
HSBCs errors  for which I think £150 is fair.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay B compensation of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman