DRN-3692286
The complaint
Mr D complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money was irresponsible in 
its lending to him.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr D was provided with a £1,000 fixed sum loan by 118 Money. The 
loan term was 18 months and Mr D was required to make monthly repayments of around 
£84 with a total amount repayable of around £1,516. He says that 118 Money didnt carry out 
proportionate checks before lending and had it done so it would have realised the lending 
wasnt affordable
118 Money says that before the loan was provided it carried out a credit check and asked 
Mr D about his income and expenses. It says the information received was then checked 
against reasonable average figures and information from Mr Ds credit file. It says Mr D 
confirmed that the loan was affordable for him.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought the checks carried out by 
118 Money were reasonable and that these didnt raise concerns that meant the lending 
shouldnt have been provided. 
Mr D didnt agree with our adjudicators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible lending  including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set out on our website.
118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether the 
lending was sustainably affordable for Mr D. As our adjudicator explained, the rules dont set 
out any specific checks which must be completed to assess creditworthiness. But checks 
should be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit.
Before lending to Mr D, 118 Money asked him about his income and expenses and carried 
out a credit search. Mr Ds application records him having a monthly income of around 
£1,600 and living in rental accommodation. His monthly expenses for rent, other credit 
commitments and other costs are recorded as totalling around £986. 118 Money says it 
checked the income and expenses information received. Having considered the loan 
repayment amounts compared to Mr Ds monthly income and the duration and total size of 
the loan, I think the checks carried out were proportionate. I have therefore considered what 
the checks showed to see if these raised concerns that meant the lending shouldnt have 
been provided.
I have looked through the credit check results provided by 118 Money. These didnt show 
any county court judgments or insolvency records but did show that Mr D had a previous 
default. The details show the default was recoded in 2017. Mr D had two credit card 
accounts which he was managing but which were operating at their credit limits and two 
other loans. Having considered the information received from the credit check I do not find 
that this should have raised any serious concerns that meant further checks were needed or 
that the borrowing shouldnt have been provided.
The information in the credit check provided details of Mr Ds payments to other credit 
providers. The total amount recorded was in line with the amount 118 Money had included in 
its assessment. 118 Money said it checked the other information provided and in this case I 
have nothing to suggest that it shouldnt have relied on the information provided in the 
application process. Therefore, as I think the checks carried out were proportionate and 
these suggested the loan repayments were affordable, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman