DRN-3397931
The complaint
E complains about how British Gas Services Limited dealt with an escape of water at one of 
its rental properties.
Mr O brought this complaint to our service on behalf of E. For ease of reading Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by Mr O.
What happened
Mr O is a director of E, which is a business that rents out a number of properties. E holds a 
Homecare policy with British Gas. This policy covers repair and maintenance problems that 
may arise within Es rental properties.
On 10 January 2021, one of Es rental properties suffered an escape of water, which was 
causing property damage. Mr O contacted British Gas the same day to report the escape of 
water. He provided his tenants contact details and requested the attendance of an engineer. 
British Gas appointed a company, which Ill refer to here as D to investigate and repair the 
leak. It said it arranged an emergency appointment for D to attend the affected rental 
property on 10 January. 
On 10 January, D visited Mr Os rental property but stated that there was no visible leak. D 
observed that there was a build-up of condensation as the extractor fan wasnt working. D 
also checked all appliances and attributed the issue that had been reported to a drainage 
problem as the bathroom seals were damaged and leaking and there was water on the floor 
from shower and bath usage. Mr O wasnt present during this visit. However, his tenant was.
On 12 January, Mr O contacted British Gas. He said he hadnt received any updates or 
contact from D or British Gas following his telephone call two days earlier. He advised that 
he thought there was still a leak at the property, but he was unsure whether it was a constant 
leak because he hadnt been able to discuss the matter with his tenant. He therefore 
requested a further visit from D, which took place the same day. And Mr O asked that D 
contact him once the problem had been diagnosed.
During the visit on 12 January, British Gas said that D had removed the bath panel and 
observed that the pipework was dry. D noted that the bathroom floor at the back was dry. 
However, there were significant condensation levels within the property. The attending 
engineer didnt think this was responsible for causing the escape of water. They tested the 
heating pressure and noted no issues with this. D also removed the kitchen unit and washing 
machine, but no leak was detected there either. The engineer was advised that the water 
didnt go away whether appliances were used and had been present for a week. 
D said it contacted Mr O and explained that the escape of water wasnt coming from the 
bath. The engineer thought it was a freshwater leak but said a return visit would be required 
for leak detection investigation work to be undertaken to determine the source. British Gas 
stated that D telephoned Mr Os tenant to arrange the leak detection investigation and 
offered an appointment on 14 January, which the tenant confirmed was acceptable.
Mr O said he contacted British Gas following Ds visit on 12 January to explain that he 
lacked confidence in Ds diagnosis. He stated that he had informed British Gas that, because 
the leak was unresolved, hed appointed a contractor to visit the property who had identified 
the source of the leak but couldnt access it. So, theyd switched off the water to the 
properties within the building leaving all tenants without water.
British Gas said D attended the rental property on 14 January to undertake the leak 
detection inspection. However, no one was present at the property at that time. So, the 
planned work couldnt take place. Due to this a senior engineer was booked to attend the 
property for 24 February. 
On this date, the senior engineer contacted the tenant to explain that the appointment would 
need to be rearranged for the following afternoon. This wasnt suitable for the tenant due to 
employment commitments. So, the visit was scheduled for the morning of 25 February.
On 25 February, British Gas appointed engineer contacted Mr O to provide an estimated 
arrival time and was informed that the remedial works had already been completed. Mr O 
said that this was the first time hed heard from British Gas since 12 January and, by this 
point, the third party contractor had already completed repairs at the property  this having 
taken place on 15 and 16 January.
 
On 22 April, Mr O presented British Gas with an invoice covering the cost of work 
undertaken on 15 and 16 January. A further invoice was sent by email to British Gas on 12 
May 2021, which related to work completed on 2 February. However, British Gas refused to 
pay the invoices it received. So, Mr O complained.
British Gas didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. It stated that it hadnt been given a proper 
opportunity to undertake leak detection work prior to a third party being appointed by Mr O to 
complete the remedial work. And it stated that the work detailed in the invoices it had been 
sent were excluded under the terms of the HomeCare policy. It therefore thought it had 
acted reasonably in declining to pay the invoices it had received.
Being dissatisfied with British Gas response to its complaint, Mr O referred it to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and recommended partially upholding this 
complaint. They werent persuaded that British Gas had acted unfairly in not paying the 
invoices Mr O had presented. But they thought it should compensate him in the sum of £200 
for the trouble and upset hed been caused by some aspects of poor service. British Gas 
agreed to resolve Mr Os complaint in the way our investigator had recommended. But Mr O 
disagreed with the proposal and asked an ombudsman to review this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service is impartial, we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint, and we dont regulate or punish businesses. 
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr O experienced here. I know he feels very strongly 
about this matter. And I appreciate the reasons hes brought his complaint to our service. 
But, while I sympathise with them, the issue that I must determine is whether I think British 
Gas made a mistake, or treated Mr O unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. In 
thinking about this, Ive considered things from both sides. Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Id like to thank Mr O and British Gas 
for the level of detail contained within their submissions. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided and, if I havent specifically referred to a point that Mr O or British Gas 
have made it isnt because I havent considered it. My decision will focus on what I think are 
the key issues, which is an approach that reflects the informal nature of this service.
The terms of Mr Os Homecare policy cover repairs and maintenance problems relating to 
boilers, gas appliances, kitchen appliances, central heating, electrics, plumbing and drains 
within his rental properties.
Here, theres no dispute here that water damage occurred to Mr Os rental property following 
an escape of water. However, theres a dispute between Mr O and British Gas about the 
correct outcome of this complaint.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Mr O initially contacted British Gas to 
report an escape of water on 10 January 2021. Based on the available evidence, Im 
satisfied that he contacted British Gas as soon as hed been notified of the problem by his 
tenant. Im therefore satisfied that he acted promptly in taking action and calling on the 
assistance of British Gas under the terms of his Homecare policy.
Im persuaded that British Gas promptly and proactively instructed D, its appointed agent, to 
attend Mr Os rental property the same day it was contacted. In doing so, British Gas 
correctly prioritised Mr Os claim as an emergency and appropriately recognised that an 
escape of water required an urgent engineers attendance.
The evidence Ive seen persuades me that reasonable efforts were made by D, on 10 
January, to investigate the escape of water. I cant say that it reached an unreasonable 
conclusion on what could have been causing the problem that Mr O had reported based on 
the evidence British Gas has presented to our service. 
However, I think steps could have been taken by British Gas to discuss the outcome of this 
visit with Mr O directly. I say this because he was the policyholder of the Homecare policy 
and had reported the escape of water. Its clear that Mr O hadnt been able to discuss this 
visit with his tenant and, from the evidence available, there appears to have been 
communication difficulties between both individuals. So, Mr Os only way of obtaining 
information about whether the escape of water had been resolved was through British Gas.
In view of the above, its understandable that Mr O contacted British Gas on 12 January to 
request an update regarding the status of his claim. Ive seen evidence that demonstrates 
that British Gas, again, treated Mr Os escape of water report urgently. I say this because D 
was dispatched the same day, which was as soon as Mr O had raised concerns that the leak 
was still present and unresolved. He says, and I accept that, he asked British Gas to contact 
him with its diagnosis of the problem after the engineers visit that day. 
The evidence Ive seen persuades me that, during the visit on 12 January, D undertook a 
very thorough investigation to attempt to identify the source of the escape of water. Its 
difficult to envisage what further action D could have taken during its attendance at the rental 
property. And, given that it wasnt able to trace the leak, it correctly escalated matters by 
recommending a leak detection investigation. I think this was appropriate in all the 
circumstances. And Ive seen evidence that persuades me that D contacted Mr O to explain 
what had happened during this visit as hed requested. 
Ive listened to a call recording from 13 January, which satisfies me that British Gas 
contacted Mr Os tenant on 13 January 2021 to arrange the leak detection appointment. This was arranged for 14 January, which the tenant confirmed was suitable. The call ends with a 
request that the tenant contact British Gas if there are any problems. No contact was made 
by the tenant to state that the appointment was no longer suitable.
I understand that Mr O asked to be contacted by British Gas in addition to his tenant. 
However, the evidence demonstrates that this related to diagnoses by D. I havent seen 
enough evidence to show that Mr O had asked British Gas to contact him to arrange 
appointments. So, Im unable to fairly conclude that British Gas erred in contacting only Mr 
Os tenant on 13 January to arrange the leak detection appointment.
Ive seen evidence that satisfies me that the leak detection engineer was unable to 
undertake the inspection because they couldnt gain access to Mr Os rental property. British 
Gas has stated that the tenant didnt answer the door and this is what prevented the leak 
detection inspection taking place. 
Had the leak detection investigation had taken place on 14 January, when it had been 
initially intended, I would have made a finding that this would have occurred within a 
reasonable time. However, that didnt happen here due to reasons beyond British Gas 
control. I therefore cant fairly hold British Gas responsible for the aborted visit. However, I 
think British Gas missed an opportunity to contact Mr O to explain that the visit had been 
aborted due to issues relating to his tenant.
Its reasonable to infer that, had the leak detection appointment taken place on 14 January, 
this would have most likely led to the source of the escape of water being identified. On this 
basis, I think its most likely that British Gas would have arranged the commission of any 
repairs that were covered under the terms of the Homecare policy. And I think this would 
have avoided Mr O having to instruct his third party contractor to attend his rental property to 
undertake the repairs it did. 
I think British Gas made an error when it decided to arrange a further visit for 24 February 
following its unsuccessful attempt to access the property on 14 January. I can see from the 
records British Gas has supplied our service that the visit on 24 February was marked as 
non urgent, which Im not persuaded was reasonable or fair given that the leak was causing 
property damage. British Gas has stated that this is a typing error but, based on the records 
and evidence Ive seen, I dont accept this.
Given that British Gas was dealing with reports of an unresolved escape of water, it wasnt 
reasonable for it to delay further contact from an engineer until 24 February, which was over 
six weeks after Mr O had reported the presence of a leak. This was poor service.
British Gas has argued that Mr O ought to have chased up a return visit given that he hadnt 
heard from it since 12 January. And I think thats a fair comment. However, I also think 
responsibility lies with British Gas as the provider of the Homecare policy to communicate 
proactively with the policyholder in a scenario where there is an unresolved escape of water 
causing property damage. It didnt do that here.
I understand that Mr Os appointed contractor completed repairs on 15 and 16 January. He 
has said he appointed the contractor to attend his rental property on 15 January. But I 
havent seen any evidence substantiating this. And, in view of the extent of the work the 
contractor completed, I think its more likely that this appointment would have been booked 
in advance of the work taking place. Its for this reason that Im not persuaded that British 
Gas missed opportunity to contact Mr O on 14 January would have changed the overall 
outcome insofar as the instruction of the third party contractor is concerned.As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Mr O contacted British Gas following Ds 
visit on 12 January stating that he lacked confidence in Ds diagnosis. There were difficulties 
in Mr O being updated by his tenant and being given the information he wanted by British 
Gas. So, I can appreciate that Mr O felt he needed to instruct a third party contractor to 
attend his rental property to offer a second opinion. However, the leak detection inspection 
had already been requested by this time and therefore asking a third party to provide 
another opinion was Mr Os choice.
Mr O wants our service to direct British Gas to reimburse the costs he incurred in instructing 
his third party contractor. He seeks to rely on the policy British Gas implemented during the 
pandemic that a policyholder could instruct a local engineer in circumstances where they 
were without heating or hot water and it wasnt able to send its own engineer to the affected 
property within four days of the problem being reported. He appears to believe that this 
policy obliges British Gas to fund the cost of his repairs. But Im not persuaded this policy 
applies. I say this because, at the time the initial report was made to British Gas, theres no 
evidence that the property was without heating or hot water and theres no documented 
evidence demonstrating that British Gas was aware that the property was without water at 
any time. 
I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that British Gas is obliged to fund any work 
undertaken by a third party unless its been authorised prior to the work taking place. British 
Gas has told our service that Mr O didnt request authorisation before instructing his third 
party contractor to attend his rental property and Mr O hasnt disputed this. 
I recognise that Mr O incurred significant expense in tracing and repairing the leak. However, 
he did so without obtaining prior authority from British Gas. Im satisfied that British Gas had 
already arranged a leak detection inspection and was actively progressing Mr Os claim by 
the time he appointed the third party contractor to undertake work on his behalf. It follows 
that Im not persuaded that Mr O gave British Gas a reasonable opportunity to undertake the 
intended work before appointing a third party.   
For the reasons outlined above Im unable to fairly hold British Gas responsible for the costs 
Mr O is seeking reimbursement of in the overall circumstances and this means Im not going 
to direct it to pay the invoices he presented. 
Putting things right
Within this decision, Ive identified where I think there was poor service. I understand that our 
investigator recommended that British Gas resolve this complaint by paying £200 
compensation to Mr O to recognise the trouble and upset he would have been caused.
As our investigator has explained, our service can only assess any distress and 
inconvenience suffered by the complainant. So here, I cant consider how Mr Os tenant may 
have been affected by what happened.
In assessing whether the compensation that our investigator recommended British Gas pay 
Mr O is fair and reasonable, it may assist if I explain that when our service considers awards 
for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we use to calculate awards for particular 
errors. Its my role to consider what impact the business actions have had on the consumer 
and to decide, within guidelines set by our service, whether compensation would be 
appropriate in the circumstances. 
Its clear to me that Mr Os experience here went beyond mere irritation. So, Im satisfied that 
an award of compensation is appropriate. Having taken on board Mr Os comments about 
what happened and reflecting on the aspects of poor service, Im satisfied that the recommended compensation is a fair amount of compensation thats proportionate to the 
trouble and upset that wouldve been caused here. This sum appropriately takes into 
consideration the service shortfalls Ive identified within this decision and its in line with our 
approach in similar scenarios. Im sorry to disappoint Mr O but I havent seen enough to 
persuade me that a higher distress and inconvenience award is warranted here.
In order to resolve this complaint, Im directing British Gas to pay Mr O £200 in 
compensation. But Im not going to tell it take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. British Gas Services Limited should 
resolve this complaint by paying £200 compensation to E.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman