DRN-3413210
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Bank of Scotland plc didnt treat her fairly when the term of her interest 
only mortgage expired. A family member has represented Mrs K in bringing this complaint.
What happened
The term of Mrs Ks mortgage expired in early 2016 with an unpaid balance. Mrs K doesnt 
live at the property, which she describes in her complaint as a buy to let. Mrs K, whos in her 
80s, says shes in negative equity and worried about the debt. Shes worried that Bank of 
Scotland will start action for possession.
Mrs K submitted a negative equity application to Bank of Scotland in mid-2021. She asked 
for its consent to sell the property for £87,500. Bank of Scotland declined, saying this was 
significantly below the market value. Mrs K disputes the valuation of £105,000 carried out on 
behalf of Bank of Scotland. She says the valuation carried out by her own valuer (of 
£90,000) is a better reflection of the market value. She would like Bank of Scotland to agree 
that she can sell the property for £90,000.
Our investigator said Bank of Scotland is entitled to decide whether to consent to the sale. It 
was entitled to rely on the expert opinion of its valuer when making its decision.
Mrs K didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to issue a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Scotland has a charge (the mortgage) on Mrs Ks property, which is security for the 
loan it made to her. Mrs K cant sell the property unless Bank of Scotland releases its 
charge. Usually it would release the charge when the mortgage is repaid in full. 
Mrs K says shes in negative equity  she says the property is worth less than the 
outstanding mortgage balance. She asked Bank of Scotland for consent to sell the property 
for £87,500. She said she has no other means to repay the mortgage. Mrs K provided a 
valuation report, which gave the property a value of £90,000. She then received an offer for 
the property for the same amount, which has since been increased to £95,000. Mrs K didnt 
make proposals to repay the shortfall, which would become an unsecured debt.
Bank of Scotland instructed its own valuation, as its entitled to do. It instructed a suitably 
qualified surveyor  a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. Its valuer 
gave the property a nil valuation. A partition wall had been removed extending a bedroom 
into the adjoining property. This meant the property wasnt suitable security for a loan. The 
valuer said if the wall was re-instated it would be valued at £105,000. The valuer said the 
property was tenanted.
Bank of Scotland didnt give Mrs K consent to sell the property. It said its valuation 
suggested the offer price was significantly below the market value. It also referred to a 
previous offer for the property of £115,000 in late 2020, which unfortunately fell through.
Mrs K says the valuation carried out on her behalf is for the property in its current condition. 
She says this is more accurate than the one carried for Bank of Scotland (which assumes 
the partition wall is re-instated). I understand the point she makes. However, Bank of 
Scotland asked the valuer about this and was told there would be minimal cost in re-instating 
the partition wall. 
Mrs K would like Bank of Scotland to consent to the sale of the property at £90,000 or 
£95,000. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to require it to do so. Its not in the interests 
of either party for the shortfall debt to be larger than necessary. Bank of Scotland instructed 
a suitably qualified surveyor to value the property. I cant see that it would be reasonable to 
require it to accept the valuation carried out on behalf of Mrs K in preference to its own. Bank 
of Scotland considered Mrs Ks negative equity application and explained why it didnt give 
consent. I dont think it treated Mrs K unfairly. I dont think Bank of Scotland needs to keep 
the negative equity application open. It said it could re-open the application if need be, which 
I think is fair. 
The mortgage term expired with an unpaid balance about six years ago. It seems the 
property might have been altered and let out without Bank of Scotlands consent. There are 
arrears on the account. Mrs K is understandably worried that Bank of Scotland could start 
action for possession. Mrs K borrowed the money and its reasonable for Bank of Scotland to 
expect her to repay it. Ultimately, it can seek to recover the debt by enforcing its security. Id 
encourage Mrs K to remain in contact with Bank of Scotland with the aim of exploring ways 
for the debt to be repaid. 
Bank of Scotland accepts that its service was poor. It took longer than necessary to review 
the negative equity application and Mrs K had to contact it for updates. It paid £150 
compensation for this which, in the circumstances, I think is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman