DRN-2543523
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold 
them a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in December 1990 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out the policy at the same time as they were arranging additional 
borrowing on their existing mortgage which theyd first taken out in 1984. Only Mr W was 
covered by the policy, which included cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Because Mr and Mrs W disagree, their 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
But Nationwide did pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 
50% of the PPI premiums they paid. It did this because it didnt tell Mr and Mrs W about the 
high level of commission and profit share hed pay  which was unfair.
I see that Nationwide also made a repayment a refund in respect of over-insurance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and I have taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W say they arranged the PPI by way of a postal application. Although 
Nationwide hasnt been able to confirm the sale happened this way, its been able to tell us 
that it didnt make a recommendation that they buy it. 
Unfortunately, most of the actual sale paperworks no longer available. Thats not unusual 
after so much time. But from what I know about Nationwides sale processes at the time, I 
think its more likely that it didnt make a recommendation about the policy to 
Mr and Mrs W. That means Nationwide needed to give Mr and Mrs W sufficient and clear 
information about the policy but it didnt have to make sure the policy was suitable.
Ive thought carefully about what might have happened at the time of the sale of the policy 
in 1990. Ive also looked at the copy of the offer of advance Mr and Mrs W sent us. 
Together with that, Ive considered the sales process and also the other paperwork that I 
think most likely would have been used. All of that, plus the fact that Mr and Mrs W had 
taken on the commitment of increasing their mortgage at the same time, leads me to think 
that most likely they were aware that they were buying PPI and that they had a choice 
about whether to buy it. 
I know Mr and Mrs W consider the PPI was a condition of the additional borrowing they 
were taking out. Ive seen that the offer of advance has a special condition asking them to 
tell Nationwide how much PPI cover they wanted. But that in itself doesnt necessarily 
mean that having the cover was compulsory. And unfortunately Ive not seen anything 
else to suggest this was the case. But even if taking the PPI was a condition of the 
borrowing, that wouldnt automatically mean the policy was mis-sold.
Ive seen that Mr W was eligible for the policy. That includes what Mr W told us about being 
self-employed at the time he bought the PPI. Having checked the policy, I dont think it 
would have been more difficult for him to make a successful claim because of being 
self-employed. Ive also noticed that Mr W would not have been able to start claiming for 
90 days   at which point he would be compensated for lost earnings incurred after 60 days 
- but once that happened he would be covered for up to 2 years. So I think on balance the 
policy provided a reasonable level of cover.
But I havent seen anything to make me think that he wouldve been disadvantaged by any 
of the policys main exclusions. The policy would cover him if he made a successful claim 
for accident or sickness that kept him from working, or if he had no work. 
I cant say for sure that Mr and Mrs W knew about the cost of the policy  which was £34.47 
per month. Nationwide says it would have given them details about the policy, including its 
cost, at the time of the sale. I cant know exactly when and how that happened. But I think 
the benefit and reassurance the policy offered them about ensuring their mortgage was 
being paid and their home protected wouldve made the policy seem worthwhile to 
Mr and Mrs W. I say this taking into account that this would have meant paying a moderate 
sum for the premium each month on top of their mortgage payments.
Its possible there may have been some shortcomings in the way the policy was sold but, 
having looked at the sale carefully, I think Mr and Mrs W would still have decided to buy the 
policy, even if theyd been better advised and informed.
It follows that I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Nationwide doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr and Mrs W paid for it. But Nationwide has already offered to give them back 
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
Id like to assure Mr and Mrs W that Ive looked at all the comments theyve made about their 
business and their financial situation at the time. But they dont affect my decision or lead me 
to conclude that due to that the policy had been mis-sold. Im sorry to have to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs W on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman