DRN-2809526
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about how Barclays Bank UK PLC has treated them at the end of 
their interest only mortgage. Weve communicated with Mr G throughout.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G have a part interest only, part capital and interest repayment mortgage with 
Barclays. The term ended in March 2021 with a balance of around £92,000 left to repay.
Mr and Mrs G contacted Barclays in January 2020 to explain that while they had 
endowments, they believed there was likely to be a shortfall of around £30,000. They 
discussed options with Barclays and agreed to call back at a later date.
Mr and Mrs G contacted Barclays again in October 2020 and arranged to speak to a 
mortgage adviser. Barclays notes record that Mr G decided not to make an application at 
that point as he wanted to look around and see what was available.
In December 2020, Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs G to say that because of the coronavirus 
pandemic, it could postpone collection of the outstanding balance to 31 October 2021, if that 
was what Mr and Mrs G wanted. Though it would continue to charge interest in the 
meantime. This was in response to guidance issued by the regulator in October 2020.
In February 2021, Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs G to remind them the mortgage term would 
end in March and the balance would come due. Mr G contacted Barclays to clarify the 
situation, as he thought its previous letter said the term would be extended until 
31 October 2021.
Mr G asked to postpone payment of the balance until then, and spoke with Barclays agent 
about what would happen if they werent able to repay the balance at that time. Hed 
previously been told that he and Mrs G could arrange a 12 month extension to sell the 
property under its Customer Voluntary Sale (CVS) scheme. 
Barclays agent told him shed arrange the postponement to be put in place and that at the 
end of that period on 31 October 2021, Mr and Mrs G would be able to ask for an extension 
and Barclays would review their situation. 
Around a week later, a member of Barclays end of term team called Mr G. He told Mr G that 
the deferral until 31 October 2021 to repay the balance hadnt been put in place. He wanted 
to go over what that might mean with Mr G, before agreeing it. He told Mr G that, if the 
postponement until 31 October 2021 was put in place, that would be the date Mr and Mrs G 
would need to repay their mortgage and there would be no possibility of further extensions.
Mr G complained. He said hed been told the postponement would be put in place and they 
would be able to arrange a further 12 month extension after 31 October 2021. He said this 
had been agreed over the phone and Barclays should keep to it.
Barclays said that what Mr G had been told by its staff member from the end of term team 
was correct; Mr and Mrs G couldnt take advantage of both the postponement under the 
regulators guidance and its CVS scheme. It apologised for the confusion caused.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She thought Barclays should have put the 
postponement of repayment of the balance until 31 October 2021 in place when Mr G asked. 
She thought that Barclays should review Mr and Mrs Gs situation once the postponement 
period has ended and see what it could do to help. She recommended Barclays pay Mr and 
Mrs G £200 to recognise the trouble and upset caused by the incorrect information given to 
them.
Mr G disagreed. To resolve the complaint, hed like Barclays to agree to the postponement 
until 31 October 2021  followed by a 12 month extension. Barclays didnt accept or reject 
our investigators view, but as Mr G asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, it 
comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 When Mr and Mrs G took the mortgage out, they agreed to repay the outstanding capital in 
March 2021. They intended to do that using endowment policies. Unfortunately, those 
policies havent performed as expected, leaving a shortfall.
As Ive outlined above, Mr G contacted Barclays well in advance to let them know that was 
the case and discuss their options. I understand Mr G feels that Barclays were unhelpful 
when he spoke with them in 2020 and didnt give him any concrete answers about what 
would happen when the term ended.
Ive reviewed Barclays notes about those calls, and Ive taken into account Mr Gs testimony 
about what happened. Its clear Barclays discussed several options with him  including its 
CVS scheme, and the possibility of re-mortgaging by extending the term on capital 
repayment. 
Its also clear that Mr and Mrs Gs finances have been impacted by the coronavirus 
pandemic. Even if theyd made an arrangement with Barclays in January 2020, I think its 
likely it would have needed to be reviewed to make sure it was still appropriate for them.
In October 2020, it wasnt certain what Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances would be like when 
the term ended, nor exactly what their plan was to repay the remaining capital. As Ive 
outlined above, Barclays notes record that Mr G intended to look around to see what else 
might be available elsewhere. So I think its reasonable that nothing was agreed at that time, 
and Im satisfied Barclays had made him aware that they were willing to discuss his options 
with him again nearer the end of the term.
Ive been able to listen to some of the calls between Mr G and Barclays in February 2021. 
Its apparent from those calls that Mr G was very concerned about what would happen when 
the term came to an end. And, due to lockdown restrictions impacting Barclays ability to 
staff its phone lines, hed spent long periods of time attempting to get through to it. 
Barclays letter from December 2020 said that Mr and Mrs G had the option to postpone 
repayment of the balance until October 2021. Mr G told Barclays that was what he wanted, 
and was frustrated the postponement hadnt been put in place. I can understand why 
Barclays wanted to contact him again to make sure he understood the potential 
consequences of his request  such as interest continuing to be charged  and make sure 
that the postponement was appropriate for Mr and Mrs G in their circumstances.Mr G was given conflicting information by Barclays agents. One told him she would arrange 
the postponement and after that ended in October 2021, he would be able to arrange a 
further 12 month extension. The other told him the postponement hadnt been put in place 
and that no further extension would be available if Mr and Mrs G chose to postpone 
repayment of the capital, and the balance would need to be repaid in full at that date.
In response to Mr Gs complaint, Barclays told him that its second agent was correct. Mr and 
Mrs G could choose to postpone repayment of the capital, or a 12 month extension, but not 
both. It maintained that position when the complaint came to our service.
It's not clear to me if that is actually Barclays policy or not. But regardless of whether it is or 
not, I would expect Barclays to look individually at Mr and Mrs Gs situation at the time  not 
take a rigid and inflexible approach. If after October 2021 Mr and Mrs G are still unable to 
repay the capital, I would expect Barclays to continue to work with them to find a way for the 
mortgage to be repaid  bearing in mind that repossession should always be the last resort. 
That would include exploring other options such as giving Mr and Mrs G reasonable time to 
complete an application for re-financing, selling the property themselves or using the CVS 
scheme. Equally, I would expect Mr and Mrs G to be exploring their options now so that 
theyre in the best position they can be in October.
Putting things right
 I can fully appreciate why Mr G was so upset. Hed been given conflicting information by 
Barclays agents, and is very concerned about the possibility of losing his home.
I can also understand Mr Gs desire to have certainty about what will happen at the end of 
the postponement period. That said, I dont think its reasonable  at this point  to say that 
Barclays should offer a further 12 month extension. I say that because I cant be certain that 
will be in Mr and Mrs Gs best interests. Mrs Gs business was impacted heavily by the 
pandemic; during the calls with Barclays in February, Mr G informed them that he and Mrs G 
had been making their monthly payment from their savings. If thats still the case when the 
postponement period ends, it may not be in their best interests to agree an extension, 
especially if they can find an alternative way of repaying in the meantime.
I hope that, as lockdown restrictions have eased, Mrs Gs business has picked up, meaning 
Mr and Mrs Gs finances have improved. And I hope that will continue as restrictions 
continue to ease. 
Mr and Mrs G have informed Barclays they have the means to pay off most of the balance, 
leaving a shortfall of around £30,000. Apart from a three month payment deferral due to 
coronavirus, theyve been making overpayments to bring the balance down as much as they 
can. Mr and Mrs G have put the property on the market  as a fall back  but theyve also 
informed Barclays theyre attempting to build up their savings to redeem the remaining 
capital (though as Ive explained above, theyve not saved as much as theyd hoped due to 
the impact of coronavirus on Mrs Gs business).
Taking everything into account, I agree with our investigator that Barclays should review Mr 
and Mrs Gs circumstances at the end of the postponement period and see what support it 
can offer. It seems very likely to me that Barclays and Mr and Mrs G will be able to reach an 
agreement to get the remaining balance repaid in a reasonable timeframe following the 
postponement period, provided both parties work together in a spirit of fairness and 
compromise.
I also think Barclays caused Mr and Mrs G distress by giving Mr G conflicting information 
about what would happen at the end of their mortgage term, and not clearly explaining that it would offer ongoing support. It was also unable to answer his calls as quickly as it should 
have done, due to lockdown restrictions. I think the investigators recommendation of £200 is 
a fair reflection of the impact of that poor service.
Finally, I understand that Mr and Mrs Gs endowment has matured. If they havent already 
done so, they may want to use those funds to partially redeem the mortgage balance. That 
would reduce the interest being charged each month, meaning more of their monthly 
payments are applied to the outstanding capital  reducing the balance more quickly. They 
may also wish to seek independent financial advice to explore their options.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint. To put things right, I direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to:
Postpone collection of the balance of the mortgage until 31 October 2021, and then 
review Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances to see what support it can offer;
Pay Mr and Mrs G £200 to compensate them for the trouble and upset caused to 
them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman