DRN-4071724
The complaint
Ms A complains that Wise Payments Limited (WPL) deactivated and then closed her 
account, and that it has not released funds held on that account to her.  
What happened
WPL is an international money transfer platform and money remittance service. It offers a 
multi-currency account. 
Ms A opened an account with WPL in March 2021. In December 2021 WPL told her that her 
account had been deactivated, so she was unable to use it to receive or send funds. About a 
week later, WPL told Ms A that it was closing the account. It said it was carrying out due 
diligence checks and that the funds in the account  more than US$11,000  would be 
released when those checks were complete. 
Ms A complained about WPLs actions, but it told her in March 2022 that the account would 
remain closed. 
Ms A referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. In the course of his investigation, the investigator asked Ms A about some 
payments that had been made to the account in December 2021. Ms A explained that some 
of the payments had been in respect of crypto-currency sales she had made to someone 
she knew and to a contact of theirs. Another payment had been made when her husbands 
business partner made a loan to her; he later agreed to refund a repayment she had made in 
order to help her out. 
The investigator concluded however that WPL had been within its rights to close the 
account. He thought as well that WPL had acted fairly and reasonably in not returning the 
funds in the account. It had, he thought, acted in line with relevant legal and regulatory 
obligations; the return process was, he said, being followed, and WPL was not responsible 
for any avoidable delays. He did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
Ms A did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I have come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator 
did, and for similar reasons. 
I appreciate that it is frustrating for Ms A that WPL is unable to tell her when the funds held 
on the account might be released. She has said too that she has no access to other funds 
with which to support herself and her family. I have no doubt she has suffered significant 
distress as a result. 
I am however satisfied that WPL has, as the investigator concluded, acted in line with its 
legal and regulatory obligations and in line with the accounts terms and conditions.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Ms As complaint and I do not 
require Wise Payments Limited to do anything more to resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman