DRN-2014173
 
The complaint
Mr P isnt happy that Renewable Energy Claims Centre Ltd (RECC) charged him their fee 
when he hadnt accepted an offer for his mis-sold solar power panels claim.
What happened
In June 2016, Mr P signed a letter of authority (LoA) authorising RECC to act on his behalf to 
pursue a claim for mis-sold solar panels. In March 2020 Mr P received an offer for his claim 
and a refund payment of £2,112.28. He said he hadnt accepted the offer and disputed the 
amount of redress awarded for his claim.
RECC said theyd accepted the offer as the methodology in reaching the final figure was 
being applied across all the other mis-sold solar panel claims, and they didnt see any 
increased offer being made. They said Mr P had verbally accepted the offer. And as hed 
had a successful claim, they asked him to pay their fee.
Mr P complained to RECC. They gave Mr P two options, either to pay the fee, or return the 
payment back to his lender and close the underlying claim. They said if Mr P took the 
second option, they wouldnt charge their fee. Mr P didnt accept that theyd won his case as 
it was still in dispute. As Mr P didnt pay the fee, RECC began recovery action for payment of 
the debt.
Mr P wasnt happy with RECCs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator explained that we wouldnt look at the merits of Mr Ps solar panel claim but 
the way RECC as a claims management company (CMC) had handled his claim. Our 
investigator said that RECC in representing Mr P had accepted an offer that had been made 
when Mr P had said he wasnt happy with it. And said RECC should pay Mr P £100 for the 
trouble and upset this had caused. 
Mr P didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im partially upholding 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr P has made several points, many of which relate to the merits of his mis-sold solar panel 
claim. As the Claims Management Ombudsman our role is to consider complaints about the 
service a CMC, such as RECC, has given while handling a claim on his behalf. We cant 
reinvestigate or change the outcome of the original underlying claim  in this case Mr Ps 
claim for mis-sold solar panels. So, in reaching my decision Ive looked to see whether 
RECC has been fair and reasonable in their dealings with Mr P.The agreement Mr P had with RECC was on a No win No fee basis. This means 
RECC charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they 
did. So,any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a claim 
was successful, RECCs fee may be more or less than the value of the work they actually 
did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement.
I have looked at the terms and conditions that Mr P had agreed to when he asked RECC to 
act on his behalf. They said:
'Success Fee' means the fee which is payable to Us if Your claim results in Compensation.
And goes on to say:
Compensation' means any and all of (i) the total amount payable under Your Debt being 
reduced,(ii) Your Creditors or the Third Party accepting that You do not have to repay Your 
Debt or part of it, and/or, (iii) Your Creditors or Third Party making a payment of redress, 
damages or gesture of goodwill to You
In March 2020, Mr P said RECC told him about an offer that had been made. He said this 
was in a rushed phone call, and he said he was given a lot of figures. But Mr P said as 
RECC had already accepted the offer it was a Done Deal. And the payment was in his 
account by the next day. So, I can understand Mr Ps frustration as he didnt want to accept 
the offer. And he has actively continued to dispute the offer himself.
I can see that since November 2018 RECC has challenged offers made to settle Mr Ps 
claim on his behalf and told Mr P before the offers were rejected. But in February 2020, 
RECC accepted the revised offer, but I cant see they discussed this with Mr P before doing 
this. I understand they thought this was the best offer Mr P was going to get. And RECC has 
said Mr P accepted the offer during the March 2020 call, but Mr P disputes this. 
RECC havent provided the call recording so where there is a different version of events, I 
will consider what I think most likely happened. And Im persuaded by Mr Ps testimony that 
the call was hurried, and a lot of figures were given to him. While I think acceptance may 
have been mentioned I think as Mr P said, RECC had already agreed to the acceptance so 
they werent actively seeking his agreement. I think the call was more of a confirmation and 
an end to the claim so that they could look to recover their costs, as they considered it to 
have been successfully settled.
I think RECC should have discussed the offer with Mr P before accepting it and allowed him 
time to consider what he wanted to do. But this doesnt mean that their fee isnt due.
RECCs terms and conditions say:
7.1 You can cancel this contract within 14 days of entering into it and You will not have to 
pay anything to Us. We will also refund any Assessment Fee paid to Us if You cancel during 
this time.
7.2. After the conclusion of the cancellation period contained in clause 7.1 You can still ask 
Us to cease providing Our Services at any time but we will charge You for work completed 
by Us up to the point of cancellation this will be charged at an hourly rate of £60 per hour or 
part thereof.
I havent seen any evidence that Mr P cancelled his agreement with RECC within or after the 
14 days. And as outlined above the agreement was on a No Win No Fee basis. RECCs welcome pack says:
You only pay us once you have received payment after we have successfully settled your 
claim.
As Mr P was offered compensation for his mis-sold solar power panel claim I think RECC 
considered Mr Ps claim to have been successfully settled. And as hed received the refund 
payment, they could ask for their fee of £875.46. And I think this was fair and reasonable.
But Mr P returned the refund as he wanted to continue to dispute his claim, so this money 
wasnt available to him. But in continuing to dispute the offer Mr P was seeking more redress 
not less. Im satisfied RECC considered Mr Ps claim to have been settled when the refund 
payment was made. And that this ended their agreement with him. So, as I said above, I 
think they were justified in asking for their fee. But as theyve added no further value to his 
case after this point any additional redress Mr P has acquired since, I dont think it would be 
fair for RECC to charge him their fee on this.
I can see that RECC in actively seeking to recover the debt has caused Mr P trouble and 
upset. And as I as outlined, I think if theyd discussed the offer with him before accepting it, 
Mr P would have been able to say what he wanted to be done. So, I agree with our 
investigator that he should be paid £100 for the trouble and upset this caused. 
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and ask Renewable Energy Claims Centre Ltd to pay Mr P 
£100 for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman