DRN-2895439
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about their stock market linked savings bond with Santander UK Plc 
(Santander). They are unhappy with the maturity value and say the bond should have 
performed better based on the amount they invested, and the returns advertised.
What happened
In May 2016 Mr and Mrs D were advised to invest £80,000 into a Santander stock market 
linked savings bond. The bond was designed to return the initial investment with a minimum 
gross return of 0.25% or a fixed maximum return of 16%.
The bond matured on January 2021 with Mr and Mrs D achieving a return of £200 in addition 
to their original investment. Unhappy with this they complained. They said Santander hadnt 
explained it would be basing its return on the bonds last six-month FTSE index average. 
And they queried the duration of their investment  they said the bond had been withdrawn 
earlier than the five-year term they believed they had been invested for, and that it had 
commenced in May, not July - which meant the index had been calculated incorrectly.
Santanders final response explained that although Mr and Mrs D had signed the forms in 
May 2016, the bond began in July 2016 and ended in December 2020 in line with the four-
and-a-half-year term stipulated. It also said the product literature set out how the interest 
return would be calculated. Santander rejected the complaint saying it hadnt made an error. 
Our investigator looked at the case. She didnt uphold the complaint saying there was no 
evidence to suggest Santander had used the wrong start date, investment period or that the 
surrender value had been calculated incorrectly. The investigator also considered the 
suitability of the bond. She noted that although Mr and Mrs D didnt raise this directly as a 
concern, the bond was in line with their investment objectives.
Mr and Mrs D did not agree with the investigators findings. They said the bonds value 
wasnt acceptable considering the amount invested and the number of years it had been in 
force. As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide whether Santander has treated Mr and Mrs D fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances of this case, noting the product literature Santander issued. The bond guide 
says:
What will I get back?
When the Bond reaches maturity, you will get back your initial deposit, plus the 
minimum interest return. Any interest return above this will be linked to the 
performance of the Index, as set out in the table below:
4 year term Interest Return at maturity
Fixed minimum 0.25% gross/0.06% AER If the final level of the Index (after 
averaging) is lower than the starting level;
Or
Fixed maximum 16% gross/3.35% AER
If the final level of the Index (after averaging) is the same or higher than the starting 
level.
How might averaging affect what I get back?
The averaging period is the six-month period leading up to the maturity date. To 
calculate the average, we use the value of the Index at the end of each working day 
during this six-month period and then take the average of these to determine the
final level of the Index.
We use an averaged figure to determine the final level of the Index to reduce the 
impact of sudden increases or decreases in the Index that may occur in the period 
leading up to your maturity. We recognise this could reduce the benefits of a rising
market, but it is also intended to reduce the adverse effects of a falling market.
What are the key dates?
4 year term
Commencement date 1 July 2016
Averaging period 30 June 2020 - 29 December 2020
Maturity date 1 January 2021
Im satisfied the guide makes clear the bond had a four-and-a-half-year term which ran from 
July 2016 until December 2020. The guide also makes clear that it would use a six-month 
average leading up to the date of the bonds maturity. And that following the averaging, if the 
final level of index was lower than the starting position, the bank would pay the minimum 
return, but if higher, then it would pay the fixed maximum return. This information was also 
contained in the suitability report. 
Ive considered their comments on what they were told about the bond, including the small 
font they say the literature was printed in. Having reviewed the information, Im satisfied the 
key points about how the investment would work werent buried in small print, but sufficiently 
highlighted and in clear language such that they could understand the terms and how the 
final return would be calculated. Given their experience, albeit limited with stocks and shares 
ISAs, I think they ought to have understood at the very least, the concept of the changing 
value of a FTSE linked bond. And Ive taken account of the responsibility Mr and Mrs D had 
to read the literature and understand the investment they had undertaken, not least because 
of the amount involved. 
Im satisfied the plan worked as it should, and the literature was clear about that. If the FTSE 
didnt rise over the relevant period (with averaging taken into account) Mr and Mrs D would 
only get back what they invested plus a small gain. Thats what happened, so undoubtedly, 
while it will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs D, thats what the bond was designed to do. 
Although Ive looked at how the plan worked because Mr and Mrs D have told us the 
investment bond hasnt given them the return they were expecting, Im also of the view that theyve displayed concerns about whether they were sold the right product. I say this 
because if the return wasnt what they were expecting, but this is in fact how it worked, this 
calls into question their understanding of the investment and therefore whether it was 
suitable for them in the first place. So, for the sake of completeness, Ive considered whether 
the advice theyve been given was suitable for their circumstances and requirements.
At the time the adviser noted Mr and Mrs D had a monthly net income of £3,500, of which 
£2,500 was jointly disposable. They also held £304,000 across investments and deposit-
based accounts with further assets totalling £200,000. Following their response to a 
capacity for loss questionnaire, the adviser concluded that Mr and Mrs D had a very low 
risk attitude to investment risk. It was recorded Mr and Mrs D wanted to achieve capital 
growth over the medium to long term that could exceed the return they might otherwise have 
received by leaving their capital on deposit. They liked the idea that even if the index stays 
level or doesn't rise by much, you get the maximum return, and if it goes down, your capital 
is returned along with a minimum return. So, I think Mr and Mrs D understood there was a 
risk of little return in the hope of achieving a higher return and preserving their capital.
Mr and Mrs D agreed to commit approximately 26% of their total investments and assets to 
the bond, which guaranteed to protect the original amount invested after five years. Although 
their capital would be in use for the duration, Mr and Mrs D dont appear to have required an 
income from this investment as they held more than £200,000 across other fairly liquid 
investments and accessible savings accounts. To my mind, Santanders recommendation to 
invest £80,000, although sizeable, wasnt an unreasonable sum to invest taking into account 
their wider circumstances, and because the nature and terms of the investment were 
consistent with the objectives Mr and Mrs D wished to achieve. 
However, I acknowledge these products can be complex, and arent always suitable even if 
the capital was guaranteed. The investment presented the potential risk of receiving little 
return, but Im satisfied Mr and Mrs D were made aware of this possibility. Im also mindful 
that rates available from ordinary savings accounts at the time were very low so there were 
limited ways in which to achieve better returns without risking their capital.
Here, Mr and Mrs D had the opportunity to make 3.3% per annum, which was a good return 
for the time compared to risk free savings accounts and similar places they could have put 
their money. There was a chance the bond would give a very minimal return. But it was clear 
that as long as the FTSEs final average index was higher than the start, Mr and Mrs D 
would get a return significantly better than savings account rates. Im satisfied that this was a 
risk they were willing and able to take with this portion of their overall wealth in the hope of 
that return. 
Despite the risk of the FTSE falling and the impact this would have on the return, taking into 
account Mr and Mrs Ds wider financial situation, Im inclined to believe the recommendation 
was suitable and in line with the level of risk Mr and Mrs D were prepared and could afford to 
take, as it offered the potential to outperform the returns on a deposit account over the same 
period. So, while the performance was disappointing, the bond operated as it ought to have 
done. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Farzana MiahOmbudsman