DRN-3605541
Complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited hasnt reimbursed him after he fell victim to a 
scam.
Background
Mr M has an account with Starling. In December 2021, he was tricked into using that 
account to make payments to a fraudster. 
Hed received an unsolicited text message from a woman. She claimed that shed sent it to a 
wrong number. However, there was a subsequent exchange of messages between Mr M 
and this woman. Some level of rapport was established between the two. She explained to 
Mr M that her job was trading in cryptocurrencies. She persuaded him to start investing his 
funds in cryptocurrencies too.
He made a small initial investment using his debit card. However, when that investment 
appeared to have performed well, he made further payments. In total, he made five 
payments totalling just under £5,500 in the belief that he was investing in cryptocurrency.
He realised he must have fallen victim to a scam when it turned out that he couldnt withdraw 
any money from his investment. He was given a not very compelling explanation by the 
scammer as to why this wasnt possible. He also found information online that suggested 
others had fallen victim to the same scam.
He complained to Starling, but it said it wouldnt reimburse him. It said that, as Mr M had 
authorised the payments, it had done nothing wrong in processing them. Mr M was unhappy 
with that and so he referred his complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator 
who didnt uphold it. The Investigator noted that the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code didnt apply in Mr Ms case because hed made his payments by debit card, 
rather than bank transfer. He also thought that a chargeback would have no prospect of 
success.
The Investigator also considered whether Starling shouldve proactively intervened and 
questioned the account activity with Mr M. If it had done so, it might have been able to 
prevent him from falling victim to the scam. However, the Investigator didnt think that the 
payments were suspicious or out of character. He therefore wouldnt have expected Starling 
to take any action in response to them.
Mr M disagreed with the Investigators view. He said that these payments were significantly 
larger than any other payments from his account in the previous twelve months. The next 
largest payments were around the £300 mark. Starling shouldve recognised this as a 
significant deviation from the normal way his account operated. He also argued that the fact 
that these payments were to a cryptocurrency exchange shouldve been further cause for 
concern.
As Mr M disagreed with the Investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These payments arent covered by the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. That code only applies where a customer is a victim of 
an Authorised Push Payment scam, that is, a transfer of funds executed across Faster 
Payments, CHAPS or an internal book transfer, authorised by a Customer in accordance 
with regulation 67 of the PSRs. That wasnt the case here. The payments Mr M made were 
card payments, rather than bank transfers. 
That means that the starting point here is that, under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 and the terms of his account, Mr M is liable for payments hes authorised. However, 
taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Starling should 
fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
It is now known with the benefit of hindsight that Mr M had been targeted by a scam. 
However, I must look at whether Starling could reasonably have been expected to identify 
that risk at the time, given the information it had at its disposal. In this instance, Im not 
persuaded that it shouldve had concerns about the payments, and so it follows that I dont 
think it did anything wrong in allowing them to be processed.
Starling has to strike a balance between monitoring accounts and preventing fraud without 
unduly hindering its customers general use of their account. I accept that the value of the 
scam payments was higher than a typical payment from this account. However, its not 
unusual or uncommon for a customer to have occasional one-off transactions of larger value 
for significant purchases. The value of the payment is a relevant scam risk indicator. These 
payments were not so large that they wouldve been cause for concern. In addition to that, 
after each of the payments to the crypto exchange, the balance on Mr Ms account was left 
higher than the median balance on his account. It was certainly not significantly lower than 
normal and so Starling wouldnt have had any concerns that his account had been drained 
by the scam. 
I acknowledge the argument that Starling shouldve treated it as significant that these 
payments were to a cryptocurrency exchange. Scams involving cryptocurrency are 
becoming increasingly prevalent and well-known to banks. However, at the time these 
payments were made, I think it was reasonable for it to consider a range of factors when 
deciding whether to make further enquiries of Mr M. The pattern of payments wasnt plainly consistent with fraud and their values werent indicative of a heightened risk of financial 
harm. In this case, I find that it was reasonable for the bank to not have had concerns about 
these payments.
For the sake of completeness, I also agree with the Investigators conclusion that there 
would no prospect of a chargeback succeeding. The merchant (the cryptocurrency 
exchange) duly performed its contract with Mr M and so I dont think Starling acted unfairly 
by not raising a chargeback with the card scheme.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman