DRN-3724733
The complaint
Mr M complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) turned down his 
buildings insurance claim and voided his policy (cancelled from the start).
What happened
In June 2021, Mr M renewed his buildings and contents insurance policy through his broker, 
and his insurer for the buildings insurance section of cover was changed to RSA.
In February 2022, Mr Ms property was damaged, and he made a claim under the policy. 
When reporting the claim Mr M told RSA that hed rented out his property to a tenant since 
October 2020. He voluntarily provided this information, which is not in dispute.
RSA said that Mr M was required to tell them (or the broker) at the June 2021 renewal that 
hed rented out his property, and that if hed done so, they wouldnt have been able to 
continue providing cover under the policy. RSA therefore turned down the claim and voided 
the policy, and they returned the premiums Mr M had paid. However, RSA did offer Mr M a 
payment of £25,000 towards the property damage as a goodwill gesture. Mr M didnt accept 
this offer, and brought a complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 September 2022 in which I made the following findings:
As this complaint concerns misrepresentation, Ive considered the matter in accordance 
with the principles set out under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out/renewing a consumer insurance contract.
RSA and the broker have confirmed to this service that the broker administers the policy 
for RSA, and has delegated authority from RSA to issue the policy documents on their 
behalf. Ive therefore considered what happened when the policy was taken out, and 
what information Mr M was given.
On 18 May 2021, the broker wrote to Mr M to explain his cover was due for renewal on 
18 June 2021. This letter confirmed that Mr Ms existing insurer for the buildings element 
of the cover couldnt provide a renewal quote, and so the quote shown was for an 
alternative insurer (RSA).
The renewal information said the policy would not renew automatically. The letter asked 
Mr M to carefully read his Statement of Insurance to ensure the cover still met his 
needs. It then said, Please note, incorrect details and insufficient insured values may 
invalidate your cover resulting in your insurance being cancelled or your claim being 
rejected or not paid in full.
A Statement of Insurance was included. This was an important document which set out 
the details of the cover held by Mr M, as well as the information held by RSA relating to 
the property. This document said:
IMPORTANT
This document explains our understanding of your needs and requirements, please 
read it carefully. Your policy cover is based on the requirements and information you 
provided us within your quotation.
You must ensure that the information provided by you or on your behalf in relation to your 
Home Insurance is provided honestly, fully and to the best of your knowledge. If any of 
your insurance or personal details are incorrect or incomplete, or if you need to make a 
change (e.g. change of address), please call 0343 316 1617 as soon as possible. Failure 
to do so may result in your insurance being cancelled or in your claim being rejected or not 
fully paid.
The document then included a list of questions relating to the risk address, with yes or 
no answers. One of those questions asked:
Is your home occupied solely by you, your spouse/partner/joint owner and members of 
your family?.
The answer to this question was yes.
Im satisfied this question was clear. Given that the property was occupied by a tenant at 
this time, I agree with RSA that Mr M ought to have contacted them/the broker to advise 
that his answer to the above question had changed. I therefore find that Mr M failed to 
take reasonable care, and so there was misrepresentation.
Mr M called the broker on 15 June 2021. Ive listened to this call and Mr M said he wanted 
to print the renewal document that the broker had sent him by email.
The broker has confirmed that they gave Mr M their online banking details so he could 
pay the renewal premium on 15 June 2021. The broker then sent Mr M confirmation of 
his renewal on 16 June 2021. However, this paperwork was sent through the post and 
returned to the broker marked as goneaway. The broker therefore emailed Mr M to 
inform him of this, and asked him to get in touch to confirm that the correspondence 
address was correct, or provide his new postal address.
Mr M called the broker on 31 August 2021. Ive listened to this call, and Mr M said:
Apparently my documents associated with this policy were returned to you. I was away, 
I dont know what happened. It wasnt by me; it mustve gone to the wrong house and 
they mustve just dropped it back in the post. So I just want to confirm that the address 
[confirms address] is correct, so if you resend the documents to there. Only I dont want 
you to think that Im not requiring the policy, or I dont want my home covered.
Mr M asked the broker to re-send the documents by email to him.
Mr M was aware that he wasnt living at the property, and so its unclear why he said he 
was away rather than tell the broker that he wasnt living there, and the property was 
being rented out. If hed made the broker aware of this at the time, the broker could have 
advised Mr M that he would need to take out a new policy which covered tenanted 
properties.
RSA has provided evidence from their joint delegated authority guide with the broker 
which confirms that homes let to tenants would be declined under this policy. RSA has 
therefore shown that they wouldnt have been able to offer cover under the policy to 
Mr M, had they known that his property had been let to a tenant.Consequently, Im satisfied that RSA has shown that the misrepresentation was 
qualifying, for the purposes of CIDRA. That means that RSA was entitled to turn down 
the claim and void the policy, as this was the remedy available to them under CIDRA.
RSA has accepted that Mr M did not intend to intentionally mislead them, and so they 
have categorised the misrepresentation as careless and returned his premiums.
I note that RSA has offered Mr M £25,000 as a goodwill gesture, outside the terms of 
the policy. That was up to RSA. If Mr M wishes to accept this, he should contact RSA 
directly.
Mr Ms representative has raised concerns about an email sent by RSA to Mr Ms local 
council in June 2022. Weve spoken with RSA about this, and they have not given this 
service permission to consider it under this complaint. As the matter happened after 
RSA issued their final response letter, RSA is entitled to consider this as a new 
complaint. Therefore, if Mr M wishes to complain about this, he should contact RSA in 
the first instance.
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond. 
RSA responded to say they accepted my provisional decision. Mr M didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has responded to my provisional decision with additional information, I see 
no reason to alter my findings. So I find that RSA was entitled to turn down the claim and 
void the policy due to misrepresentation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman