DRN-3273874
The complaint
Mr Y complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) failed to process an investment switch 
instruction, but then backdated this when he later transferred his pension to another provider 
causing him a financial loss. He wants the transfer valued paid increased and compensation 
for the inconvenience.
What happened
Mr Ys plan was formally with Legal & General but is now administered by ReAssure. On 3 
December 2020 he gave an online instruction to switch all of his investment from a UK 
equity index fund to a cash fund. The switch wasnt reflected on his online account and he 
says he called to query it on 10 December 2020. 
Mr Y says ReAssure agreed it hadnt carried out the switch and said it would now process it. 
But the online portal wasnt updated and still showed him being invested in the UK equity 
index fund although future contributions were to be allocated to the cash fund.
Mr Y says he decided to transfer the ReAssure pension to another provider and gave 
instructions for this to be undertaken electronically on the 8 January 2021. The next day 
ReAssures online portal showed a value of  £127,262 which was almost entirely held in the 
UK equity index fund. Mr Y captured a screenshot of this, but then noted a reduction in the 
fund value in the following days. 
He called ReAssure to query why this was, but it says the call was dropped. He contacted it 
again on 18 January 2021 to complain. ReAssure wrote to Mr Y on 28 January 2021 
confirming it had made a transfer of around £120,471 to the other provider. Mr Y said not 
only has he lost out on around £7,000 of transfer value but also on a cashback of £500 from 
the other provider because the transfer value was below £125,000. He also said ReAssure 
should pay him £1,000 in compensation.
ReAssure sent a final response to Mr Ys complaint on 19 February 2021. It confirmed it had 
calculated the transfer value on the basis that Mr Ys instruction to switch to the cash fund 
had been processed on 4 December 2020, as it should have been. It said it had taken too 
long to communicate this and the portal hadnt been updated until 11 January 2021, for 
which it apologised. 
It said Mr Y had confirmed he wanted the transfer to continue at the £120,471 valuation in a 
call on 25 January 2021. And as the correct amount had been paid it wouldnt be increasing 
the transfer value amount. But is said its error had caused Mr Y inconvenience and a loss of 
expectation and it offered him £350 compensation for this.
Mr Y referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but he didnt 
uphold it. 
He said it was clear ReAssure had made an error in communicating the switch and he 
accepted Mr Ys argument that ReAssure probably didnt process this until around 11 
January 2021 after Mr Y had raised further queries. But he said regardless of this Mr Ys 
pension was as it should have been. As hed been put into the position he would have been 
in, had the switch been processed as normal by 4 December 2021, which was fair. 
Our investigator agreed it wasnt fair the online system continued to show incorrect 
information, and that this had caused distress. But he felt the £350 that ReAssure had 
already offered as compensation for this was fair. 
Mr Y disagreed. He said ReAssures compensation offer was derogatory and he was 
seeking a total of £9,630.06 from it plus interest.
As Mr Y doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding the complaint, but I wont be telling Reassure to do any more 
than it has already offered.
I understand Mr Ys frustration about what has happened but think ReAssures offer of 
compensation is a fair resolution to this complaint, Ill explain why. 
Where theres been an error in processing switch instructions our service thinks it fair that 
the provider puts the investor back into the position they should have been in. I think thats 
what has happened here.
Mr Y says that ReAssure had stolen his profit - broadly the return offered by the UK equity 
fund between 3 December 2020 and 11 January 2021 compared to the cash fund. He said 
hed regularly traded between the UK equity and cash fund and was rarely in cash for more 
than a few days. And had the instruction been processed on 4 December 2020 hed have 
switched back the next day. 
Ive thought about this and whats fair to both sides as with respect to Mr Y neither I nor 
ReAssure know what he might have done, only what he actually did. And what he says he 
did was contact ReAssure to ask if the switch had been processed on 10 December 2020. 
In his evidence Mr Y says he queried why the trade hadnt been made. He doesnt say that 
he sought to reverse it, which would have left him invested in the UK equity index fund. I 
think he would have done this if he hadnt wanted the investment to be in cash. And he didnt 
contact ReAssure about the issue again until he noted the decline in value once the portal 
had been updated after hed already submitted his transfer request, which he subsequently 
confirmed he still wanted to proceed with.
So, whilst ReAssure didnt process the switch request as Mr Y had requested as soon as it 
should have, I dont think it has otherwise treated him unfairly. I think the £350 it has already 
offered for the distress and inconvenience caused is reasonable in the circumstances of his 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I that I uphold the complaint against ReAssure UK Services Limited.
ReAssure Limited has already made an offer to pay £350 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.So, my decision is that ReAssure Limited should pay £350 to Mr Y.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman