DRN-4248433
Complaint
Miss M has complained that Match the Cash Limited (Match the Cash) trading as 
www.guarantorloan.co.uk unfairly brought about unaffordable guarantor loans for her. She 
says that reasonable checks would have shown that she shouldnt have been lent to. 
Background
Match the Cash operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Miss M 
being provided with guarantor loans in June 2016 and February 2017. Loan 1 was for 
£4,000.00. The loan had a 60-month term and an APR of 74.18%. This meant that the total 
amount of £11,556.80, which included interest, fees and charges of £7,556.80, was due to 
be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £192.78. This loan was repaid in February 2017 with 
some of the proceeds from loan 2.
Loan 2 was for £5,000.00. The loan had a 48-month term and an APR of 69%. This meant 
that the total amount of £12,226.56, which included interest, fees and charges of £7,226.56, 
was due to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of £254.72. 
Miss Ms complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators. He thought that Match the 
Cash unfairly approved Miss Ms loans. So he upheld the complaint. As Match the Cash 
disagreed with our investigators view, the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Preliminary matters
Match the Cash has suggested we cant look at Miss Ms complaint about loan 1 as she 
complained more than six years after the loan was arranged. But I dont think that having a 
couple of direct debits returned, particularly as shes said that she was already in difficulty 
means that she ought reasonably to have been aware of her cause for complaint. 
And Ive not seen anything to indicate that Miss M complained more than three years after 
she ought reasonably to have been aware of her cause for complaint. Therefore Im satisfied 
that we can and should look at Miss Ms complaint about both of her loans.
I now turn to whether Match the Cash acted fairly and reasonably when arranging these 
loans for Miss M. 
Having carefully considered everything, I consider it is fair and reasonable to expect Match 
the Cash to have carried out reasonable enquiries into Miss Ms circumstances to check that 
shed be able to make the payments to these loans, before bringing them about.
As I understand it, Match the Cash enquiries suggested that Miss M was employed and 
earning £2,150.00 a month. This was verified with payslips. I understand that Match the 
Cash also carried out credit checks which, at the time she applied for loan 1, showed Miss M 
had 15 active accounts, 21 settled accounts and five that had been opened in the last six 
months. The credit check also showed that Miss M revolving credit balances at 80% of her 
credit limits and had made only minimum payments towards her balances 26 times in the 
previous 36 months. 
The credit check for loan 2, showed Miss M had 13 active accounts, 30 settled accounts and 
11 that had been opened in the last six months (so 11 more since loan 1 had been 
provided). The credit check also showed that Miss M revolving credit balances was now at 
99% of her credit limits and she still had made only minimum payments towards her 
balances 26 times in the previous 36 months. 
Finally, this credit search also showed that 15 separate searches, most likely as a result of 
applications for credit, were carried out in the 12 months leading to the application for this 
loan. 
Having considered these circumstances, I would have expected further enquiries and for 
further evidence on Miss Ms financial circumstances to have been requested in order for it 
to have been fair and reasonable for Match the Cash to have approved these loans. In my 
view, Match the Cash appears to have placed a great deal of weight on what it was told by 
Miss M. But I think that it has failed to consider this in the context of what it found out about 
Miss M in the credit searches it carried out. 
Match the Cash has said that our investigator failed to take account that Miss Ms total 
balances, excluding loan 1, decreased in the period between loans 1 and 2. But as the 
amount for loan 1 was owing at the time loan 2 was provided, its unclear to me why Match 
the Cash believes that this shouldnt be included in determining Miss Ms overall 
indebtedness at this time. Furthermore, Miss M was now at 99% of her limits on her 
revolving credit accounts.
So given what Match the Cash knew about Miss M at the time it was arranging these loans, I 
think that Match the Cash needed to obtain further information from Miss M to better 
understand her financial position and the reason for the mismatch between the disposable 
income arrived at and what her credit file was showing. 
I think that had this information been requested, Match the Cash would more likely than not 
have discovered that Miss M was in a debt management plan at the time of loan 1 and 
already struggling to keep up with her existing credit commitments taking out payday lending 
to try and make ends meet. Match the Cash says it is unreasonable to take the debt 
management plan into account given it didnt show up on the credit search. But even without 
this, its clear that Miss M was in a cycle of unsustainable debt.
Match the Cash also says it believes that other parties may have had access to Miss Ms 
bank account. But it hasnt provided anything at all to substantiate this. The credit file shows 
a number of accounts had been opened and settled before both loans, which is indicative of 
payday lending. The fact that all of the payday lending going out of Miss Ms account doesnt 
show on the credit search doesnt in itself mean that someone else had access to Miss Ms 
bank account. 
Furthermore, what did show on the credit searches, which there is no dispute Match the 
Cash did see, was enough to demonstrate that Miss M was borrowing further to repay 
previous debts. In these circumstances, I think that Match the Cash ought to have obtained 
further information. And if it had done so, it will have realised that Miss M was simply unlikely to be able make the payments to these loans without borrowing further, or experiencing 
financial difficulty. 
As this is the case, I find that Match the Cashs failure to further consider Miss Ms 
circumstances meant that it didnt act fairly and reasonably towards Miss M when it brought 
about these guarantor loans for her.   
As Miss M ended up paying interest and charges on guarantor loans brought about by Match 
the Cash failing to act fairly and reasonably towards her, Im satisfied that Miss M lost out 
because of what Match the Cash did wrong. And I think that Match the Cash needs to put 
things right.   
Fair compensation  what Match the Cash needs to do to put things right for Miss M
Having considered everything, I think it is fair and reasonable for Match the Cash to put 
things right for Miss M in the following way:
refund all the interest, fees and charges Miss M actually paid on her loans;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any interest, fees and charges paid from the 
date they were paid by Miss M to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file as a result of these 
loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Match the Cash to take off tax from this interest. Match 
the Cash must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint. Match the Cash Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman