DRN-1555137
The complaint
Miss P complains that a sofa and chair she bought with credit provided by 
Sainsburys Bank Plc are not fit for purpose. Miss P brings her complaint under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont detail everything 
here. In summary, within a few months of the sofa and chair being delivered, Miss P 
complained that the cushion on the sofa had sunk and was no longer comfortable and that 
the cushion on the back of the chair had compressed. She wanted to return the furniture and 
get a refund.
The retailer carried out an inspection and didnt uphold her complaint so Miss P complained 
to Sainsburys Bank. An independent inspection took place and, having considered this, 
Sainsburys declined her claim for a refund.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He couldnt 
conclude there had been a breach of contract or that the furniture had been misrepresented.
Miss P asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman saying that the furniture was 
not of satisfactory quality, wasnt fit for purpose, wasnt as described, and hadnt lasted a 
reasonable amount of time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Miss P brings her complaint under section 75 of the CCA. This says if a borrower like Miss P 
has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier, they can also 
bring that claim against the lender, in certain circumstances. For me to uphold this complaint 
I must be satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss P, but I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator 
for the following reasons:
An inspection was carried out by an independent party. I appreciate Miss P did not agree 
with the findings of that report. But it was carried out by an impartial individual who had the 
relevant expertise and experience. So its appropriate that I should place some reliance on 
the findings of that report. Theres nothing in the reports conclusions to suggest the furniture 
was not fit for purpose or that a breach of contract had taken place. The inspector did not 
find any fault with the cushions.
I cant be sure exactly what was discussed when Miss P bought the furniture. She says she 
explained to the member of staff that it was important that the cushions were comfortable for 
her because of her medical condition. And that she decided to order foam cushions for the 
seats as a result of this discussion. The independent report concludes that theres no fault 
with these cushions. So Im not persuaded that the furniture was misrepresented.
Sainsburys Bank reimbursed Miss P for the cost of the independent report. And it paid her 
£30 to compensate her for the delay in responding to her complaint. I consider this to be fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
As I havent concluded theres been a breach of contract or that the furniture was 
misrepresented, I dont require Sainsburys Bank to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman