DRN-1749442
 
The complaint
 Mr F complains TSB Bank Plc will not refund some disputed transactions. 
What happened
Over a course of 24 hours, a large number of transactions were made from Mr Fs account. 
In total, the transactions amounted to £4655 and were all made to an online betting company 
 G.  Mr F says he neither made nor authorised these transactions.
When he complained to TSB about them, TSB began an investigation.  From the evidence 
available to it, it concluded the following:
the transactions had been made using an IP address which Mr F had used in the 
past
the account held with G was not registered in Mr Fs name but was registered to an 
address with which Mr F had a connection
Mr Fs card details had been registered with G
 
Based on this information, it told Mr F it would be holding him liable for the transactions.
So, Mr F came to this service and asked us to look into matters for him.
In TSBs submissions to us, it told us the disputes appear to be a domestic matter and 
unless Mr F was willing to report the matter (and the individual) to the police and support a 
prosecution, it would not refund the transactions.
Our investigator thought TSB had treated Mr F unfairly.  He (the investigator) thought TSB 
should refund the disputed transactions along with statutory interest of 8%.
Mr F accepted that resolution but TSB did not respond.  The matter was then passed to me 
for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the evidence shows its more likely than not that Mr F made or authorised these  
transactions, TSB is entitled to hold him liable for them.  As the investigator explained, 
authorisation is, essentially, a two stage test.  TSB needs to show the payments were 
authenticated  in this case by showing the card number and CVV number were used  and 
that Mr F consented to the payments.From the evidence I have seen I am satisfied that the payments were authenticated  but I 
am not satisfied Mr F consented to the payments for the following reasons:
online gambling transactions were not a common feature on Mr Fs account prior to 
these transactions;
just before these transactions took place, an online transaction for £10 to a betting 
company had taken place  but refunded when Mr F complained. So, TSB accepted 
he had not authorised that payment;
the account held with G was not in Mr Fs name;
the use of a previous IP address, taken in the circumstances of this case, is in no 
way compelling evidence that Mr F authorised these transactions;
similarly, Mr Fs reluctance or refusal to report this matter to the police cannot in 
anyway absolve TSB of its obligations under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017.
So, for all these reasons, I uphold this complaint
Putting things right
TSB Bank Plc should refund the transactions amounting to £4655 along with 8% interest to 
be calculated from the date of the transaction to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1st July 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman