DRN-2403948
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited wont cover the full cost of 
repair in respect of his home insurance claim for damage to his underground pipes.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr S had a blocked drain at his property. He called out an emergency plumber 
who unblocked the drain and carried out a CCTV survey. They advised that the drain was 
cracked and that it could be repaired by relining the underground pipe. Mr S agreed for the 
repair to take place. He was charged over £3,000. He hadnt appreciated at the time that he 
could have made an insurance claim, but five days later he contacted Lloyds who reviewed 
the claim. It said it would have paid the claim under the accidental damage to services part 
of the policy. But it said Mr S should have contacted it before going ahead with the repairs. It 
offered to pay the claim but only the amount it would have paid its contractors. It calculated 
this at £985, less the £250 excess.
Mr S was unhappy with this as he didnt know at the time he could have claimed. He felt he 
had to agree to the repairs as an emergency as he didnt want his pipe blocking up again. 
Lloyds declined to increase its offer, advising Mr S that under the policy terms, he shouldnt 
have carried out the repairs before it had had a chance to inspect them.
On referral to this service our investigator said that Lloyds had acted reasonably.
Mr S didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr S called out the emergency plumbers he had a blocked drain, which I can 
understand he wanted cleared. I can understand that at the time he didnt know he had a 
possible insurance claim, and its unfortunate the emergency plumber didnt tell him. Im sure 
he felt he had to proceed with having the pipe repaired, at a cost of over £3,000.
Lloyds said it would have been charged £985, including VAT, by its contractor. My research 
indicates that that price is about the price a consumer would expect to pay, including the 
CCTV survey and clearing the blockage. So the amount offered by Lloyds is in my view not 
unreasonable. Every claim has an excess deducted so its fair for Lloyds to deduct that from 
its offer. 
Lloyds has referred to the following policy term:
Do not throw away any damaged items before we have had a chance to see them, or carry
out any non-emergency repairs before we have had a chance to inspect them.
I realise that at the time Mr S didnt know he could make a claim or that he should have 
given Lloyds the opportunity to inspect. And no doubt he felt under pressure to agree a 
repair while the plumbers were there. But it was up to him be aware of any possible claim. 
Lloyds has emergency advice lines. Ive considered whether the repair was such an 
emergency as to need immediate repair on the spot. But I dont think a cracked drain is such 
an emergency as it had probably been like that for some time.
So, bearing in mind that Lloyds would have sent its contractor out had Mr S contacted it, I 
think it was fair of it to offer to pay its contractors figure. This was calculated as a line-by-line 
breakdown of the cost Mrs S was charged by the emergency plumber.
Im sorry that Mr S felt pushed into paying such a high cost for repairing his underground 
pipe, but I cant hold Lloyds responsible for that. In my view it has offered a fair settlement. If 
it hasnt already paid this and Mr S wants to accept it, he should contact Lloyds directly.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman