DRN-3366922
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has 
handled a claim for subsidence at her property.
Any references in this decision to Lloyds include its appointed agents. And any references to 
Mrs B include her representative.
What happened
Mrs B initially made a claim under her buildings insurance policy with Lloyds when she 
discovered cracks at her property in August 2018.
Lloyds carried out site investigations and determined that the cause of the subsidence was 
clay shrinkage exacerbated by the influence of nearby vegetation. The implicated vegetation 
was removed and monitoring took place to ensure that there was no ongoing subsidence. 
Mrs B was unhappy about the progress of the claim, and complained to Lloyds. She raised 
concerns about the monitoring, communication, mitigation works and delays among other 
things. Lloyds investigated those concerns and accepted that it couldve provided a better 
service. It offered Mrs B £250 initially, followed by a further offer of £300. Mrs B didnt think it 
had done enough. So she referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt think Lloyds had treated Mrs B unfairly. 
He thought the offers it had put forward were reasonable in the circumstances and he didnt 
recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Because Mrs B disagreed with our 
investigators assessment, the complaint has now come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These include all the submissions made by Mrs Bs representative. And whilst I wont be 
responding to the specific questions asked or commenting on all the issues raised, Id like to 
assure Mrs B and her representative that no discourtesy is intended by this. It simply reflects 
the informal nature of this service. My role is not to provide clarification on the subsidence 
claim process or to detail the insurers obligations  but to consider what has happened and 
direct Lloyds to put things right if it didnt treat Mrs B fairly. 
I will address the points I feel are most relevant in this complaint, in order to reach what I 
consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome. And having considered all the available 
information, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mrs B raised concerns about the mitigation work that was carried out once the cause of the 
subsidence had been identified. Id have expected monitoring to take place for a reasonable 
period of time once the implicated vegetation had been removed. But I can see that 
monitoring didnt take place until Mrs B complained and there was a delay in progressing the 
claim because of this. I can understand this was distressing for Mrs B, however, I cant 
comment on this further, because Lloyds issued its final response to Mrs Bs complaint in 
respect of this and other matters in August 2020 and offered £250 compensation, but Im 
afraid Mrs B brought the complaint to this service about those issues out of time.
Mrs B says the period of monitoring was inadequate and says further monitoring ought to 
take place to ensure the property is stable. An insurer doesnt have to monitor indefinitely  
because its not responsible for making sure a property never suffers from subsidence 
related movement ever again. It does however need to ensure it carries out an effective and 
lasting repair. And Im satisfied, from looking closely at the monitoring reports between 2019 
and 2020 that an effective and lasting repair was carried out. This is because the reports 
confirm that the movement during the period of monitoring wasnt significant  and that any 
minimal crack formation was likely a result of seasonal movement only and was within the 
expected range for this. So I think Lloyds did enough to show that the property was stable. It 
follows therefore that it isnt required to carry out ongoing monitoring or take further action.
I can see that Lloyds has ensured that copies of the letters it sent to Mrs Bs neighbours 
were sent to her representative by email. Im satisfied those letters were sent, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, which includes copies of the letters and postal tracking numbers. So I 
dont think it needs to do any more to show it took appropriate steps to notify Mrs Bs 
neighbours of the risk of future damage if the recommended action wasnt taken.
Looking closely at the claim timeline, I can see there were a number of unreasonable delays 
in the progress of the claim. Mrs B points out that she had to chase for updates and for 
action to be taken on several occasions. And although at times there may have seemed to 
be a lack of proactivity from Mrs Bs perspective whilst in fact Lloyds was making progress in 
the background, there were indeed other times when Mrs B had to chase Lloyds and Lloyds 
couldve been progressing matters more swiftly.
Ive considered the delays and periods of poor service, much of which I think couldve been 
avoided by Lloyds being more proactive, and I think it has done enough to recognise its 
errors. I consider its offer of £550 compensation to be reasonable in all the circumstances, 
and Ive taken into account that Mrs B is a vulnerable consumer. The offer is in line with what 
I would award in this complaint had no offer been made. I recognise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs B. And I acknowledge that Mrs B has been extremely worried and 
upset throughout the duration of this claim. But Ive thought carefully about the distress that 
Lloyds has caused and has compensated Mrs B for, as well as having consideration for the 
fact that in cases like these, significant worry and upset also comes from having a property 
which suffers from subsidence and the fact that even a well-handled subsidence claim can 
take a considerable amount of time to progress.
I also acknowledge that Mrs Bs representative had intended to make additional submissions 
in this case following our investigators assessment, but was unable to do so for health 
reasons. I am sorry to hear that. However, further time was given for both parties to provide 
any additional comments and nothing further was received by the extended deadline. And 
there was enough information already available for me to make a fair decision in this case. 
Based on that information, and for the reasons Ive given above, Im afraid I wont be 
requiring Lloyds to do anything differently here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman