DRN-3108655
The complaint
Mr V has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc took too long to deal with his accident 
claim under his motor policy, which meant he remained showing as being at fault for causing 
that accident. 
What happened
Mr V was involved in a road traffic accident in November 2019. The police took his car for a 
time and he made a claim to AXA. Unfortunately AXA didnt collect his car from the police 
within the required time limit which meant   the police crushed his car. When Mr V 
complained to AXA, it issued a final response letter in December 2019, Mr V complained to 
us and we made a final decision on that complaint.
Within that complaint the previous ombudsman noted that Mr V had asked AXA to issue a 
confirmation that the accident wasnt Mr Vs fault, which she felt was necessary or else his 
premiums would continue to be affected. She said she couldnt comment on premiums that 
hadnt yet been charged, or make AXA issue confirmation of the fault status of the claim, as, 
at that time, enquiries were ongoing. 
Mr V said he had received a letter from AXA in January 2020 which said his claim was 
open and logged as him being at fault. He said the fault status was preventing him from 
getting insurance as it meant any other policy was too expensive. Our investigator set up a 
new complaint for Mr V. During that process in May 2021. the third-party insurer admitted 
liability and in June/July 2021 AXA then, following our involvement, agreed to amend Mr Vs 
claim record and close his claim. Our investigator felt that this sufficiently resolved Mr Vs 
complaint, not least as she felt she couldnt address any issues in respect of compensation 
and premiums, as they had been dealt with during the previous complaint. Mr V didnt agree 
so he asked for an ombudsmans consideration and his case was passed to me.
I considered Mr Vs complaint and I felt AXA did need to do more to put things right. I issued 
a provisional decision, the findings of which were:
what I can consider
Whilst it is true that the previous complaint addressed some issues that Mr V has now asked 
us to review again, I think we can do that, in part anyway. Our previous complaint looked at 
AXAs action and liability for any failures up until the point of its final response. This current 
complaint really begins after the point of the final response with the letter issue in 
January 2020  this letter is what Mr V would have needed to send to future insurers when 
arranging new cover. So I will look at whether it was fair for AXA to issue that letter  and 
what happened as a result. If I think AXAs actions were unfair and Mr V suffered a loss as a 
result; financial, non-financial or both, then Ill make an award.
open/fault claim record
It is common for claims which are open and in dispute to be recorded as open/fault. But the 
fault record is not really the issue of concern for insurers seeing this type of record and 
deciding whether to offer cover. That is because the claim is still open. And while it is open 
the fault/non-fault issue is undecided and, therefore, subject to change. So where an insurer 
sees that a claim is open it will usually consider this as if its a fault claim until such time 
as the claim is settled and that will have a negative impact on their risk assessment for that 
customer and the premium theyll likely charge will be rated accordingly. Finding insurance 
cover with an open claim is likely to be an expensive proposition. 
When AXA issued its letter in January 2020 saying that Mr Vs claim was open, it was. 
Liability had not yet been decided so it doesnt surprise me it was logged as fault. But even 
if AXA had or should have logged it as non-fault at that time, I dont think that would have 
changed anything for Mr V. His claim was open and unresolved and until that changed his 
premiums were always going to be affected.
should Mr Vs claim have been resolved before it was?
Full liability wasnt accepted by the third-party insurer until May 2021. That was a very long 
time. But I cant hold AXA responsible for the time taken to resolve liability. In January 2020, 
when AXA confirmed the claim status as open/fault, solicitors were acting for Mr V in 
respect of his personal injury claim. The involvement of solicitors in this respect effectively 
prevented AXA from acting to determine or challenge the third-partys liability for the claim. If 
it did anything, that might have prejudiced the personal injury action. Whilst I accept it must 
have been frustrating for Mr V, all AXA could do was wait for the personal injury matter to be 
resolved. 
The personal injury claim and, therefore the liability issue, was resolved, as I said, in 
May 2021. But I note that AXA didnt keep track of this. It should have made sure to know as 
soon as possible once liability was accepted so it could amend the claim record on its own 
and any external database. But it didnt. It only found out and took action to amend things 
when our investigator drew the change in liability status to its attention. This had been a long 
claim for Mr V and I can understand this final difficulty caused him a lot of frustration. 
compensation and premiums
I know Mr V has been unable to obtain insurance during 2020 and 2021. But his claim was 
open and the time it took for the liability issue to resolve was not AXAs fault. So I cant 
reasonably award Mr V compensation for his loss of use of a car during all that time. Its 
unfortunate he couldnt obtain insurance but that wasnt in my view, caused by any failure of 
AXA. But he should have been able to get insurance from May 2021, if AXA had managed 
things properly and completed its updates in a timely manner. So Im going to require AXA to 
pay Mr V £10 a day from 15 May (a few days after the solicitors confirmed full liability had 
been accepted) until one week after AXA confirmed to Mr V that his claim was recorded as 
closed/non-fault. I think that should have happened by now but despite us asking AXA for 
confirmation it hasnt provided that. 
Im also going to say AXA should pay Mr V £250 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. As I said above this failure by AXA in May 2021 was very frustrating for Mr V. 
I think that sum is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I know Mr V wants compensation for the likely impact on future premiums, particularly 
because he doesnt believe that AXA will amend his claim record. But my below award will 
include a direction for AXA to make appropriate amendments. And the reality is that most of that will or should happen automatically following the closure of the claim. That being the 
case there is no reason to think Mr Vs future premiums will likely be affected by any 
incorrect claim status record. His future premiums may still increase on account of the claim 
itself  sometimes the fact of an incident leading to a claim, whether its fault or non-fault, 
can influence the premium price insurers choose to charge. But that isnt something AXA is 
responsible for. 
other errors
Mr V has said the motor insurance bureau (MIB) shows AXA has recorded a second claim 
for this incident. I havent seen this record. But I am aware of a records mix-up (not of AXAs 
doing) which caused AXA to initially think there were two insurers for the third-party vehicle 
which collided with Mr V. If that caused AXA to log two claim it will, naturally need to amend 
that detail. If AXA cant amend the detail with MIB, or have the administrators of that 
database amend it, AXA will have to issue a letter to Mr V, which he can present to future 
insures if need be, which explains Mr V only had one clam for this incident.
I concluded my provisional findings by setting out a number of awards. I felt these were fairly 
and reasonably needed to put right what AXA had done wrong, as well as to make up for the 
upset and loss Mr V had been cased.
AXA said it was generally happy with the awards Id provisionally suggested. But it said it 
was unsure, regarding my award for Mr Vs loss of use of a car, and why he wouldnt have 
been able to use a car just because it hadnt updated his claim status.
Mr V said he felt I had overlooked detail that he had provided before  namely that AXA had 
admitted in November 2019 that this accident was not his fault. And, Mr V believes, given 
the situation at hand, it was always obvious he was not at fault. With AXA only having 
changed its mind on the basis of a greedy business decision. Further, the third-party did 
admit partial liability before May 2021. And, in the circumstances, Mr V believes AXA could 
have acted during these negotiations. Mr V said AXA never did anything  he had to do all 
the work to try and prove/improve his situation. He feels AXA has never treated him fairly. 
His distress and lost opportunities as a result of AXAs actions and inactions have been vast. 
Not least the impact of not having his own car to travel in, including to take care of his elderly 
parents. He wants fair compensation for everything thats been suffered in the last two years. 
Mr V said he is concerned that my findings may impact what he is due under his personal 
injury claim. He also thinks I should provide recompense for what he sees as the previous 
flawed decision issue by this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained provisionally that I cant review what AXA did in November 2019. I also explained 
though that its quite usual for an insurer to log a claim as fault when the claim is still open, 
and that other insures reviewing an on-going claim record will not usually be swayed by a 
fault (or non-fault) marker until the claim is closed. So whether or not AXA, acting as Mr Vs 
insurer, believed he was not at fault, it wasnt unfair or unreasonable of it to have logged the 
situation as one of fault. Nor do I believe that the fact that it did left Mr V in any worse 
position than he otherwise would have been in anyway  because the claim being open 
was always going to impact how other insurers viewed him and, therefore, negatively affect 
the premium amount that theyd offer him.Whilst the personal injury claim was being reviewed by solicitors AXA was not involved, and 
could not, in any capacity, progress the motor damage claim. Solicitors were handling 
matters in respect of personal injury and the personal injury claim took precedence. Anything 
AXA did could have prejudiced that action. I appreciate that Mr V chased matters during this 
time and gathered evidence which he believes ensured the only correct outcome for either 
claim was reached. But AXA simply wasnt, and couldnt reasonably have been, involved.
I understand this has been a very difficult time for Mr V. And that he feels entirely let down 
and abandoned by AXA. But, with the personal injury claim in progress in January 2020, 
there was nothing AXA could reasonably have done to progress matters for Mr V. So 
I remain of the view that its  not responsible for the delays which occurred during 2020 and 
the early part of 2021. Full liability was accepted in May 2021. It doesnt matter that the 
third-party accepted liability to some degree before then. Thats because the claim was still 
open as negotiations were on-going. And, in any event, an acceptance based on a party 
being partially liable still means that both parties were technically at fault. And claims are 
only logged as fault or non-fault, theres no option for partial fault. 
But I also remain of the view that AXA should have done more to keep an eye on how the 
personal injury claim was progressing and made sure to act to update the motor claim log as 
soon as it was done. Mr V told us he couldnt get insurance because it was too expensive 
with an open claim on his record. Ive no reason to doubt what Mr V has told us and I accept 
that hes had costs and been caused upset as a result of AXAs failings. I remain of the view 
that to make up for this AXA needs to do a number of things to put matters right. Including 
making a payment to account for the loss of use of a car that Mr V suffered, and paying £250 
compensation for his upset.  I remain of the view that my awards are fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
My findings have been made in respect of AXAs actions. Ive set out where I think its failed 
Mr V and what I think it must do to make up for that. I dont see that my decision in this 
respect is likely to have any bearing or impact on Mr Vs personal injury claim, or the 
settlement for it. Thats because that action focuses on what liability the third-party has to 
Mr V for his losses suffered as a result of the third-party causing the crash. 
I understand that Mr V thinks my colleagues previous decision was flawed. I cant comment 
on that as under our rules Im not permitted to do so. And, as I said above, my findings have 
been made in respect of AXAs actions; what I think it did wrong and what Im satisfied it 
must do to make up for that.
Putting things right
I require AXA to:
If it hasnt done so already, update its own and any external database to show Mr Vs 
claim is closed and non-fault.
If it hasnt done so already, provide Mr V with written confirmation of the status of his 
claim and no claims discount.
Pay Mr V a sum equivalent to £10 per day for the period 15 May 2021 until one week 
after the date of written confirmation issued to Mr V, in respect of the status of his claim 
and no claims discount. This to account for his loss of use of a car.
Pay Mr V £250 compensation for distress and inconvenient caused.
If there is a second claim logged for this incident, have that record amended. But if it 
cant have the external database amended in this respect, provide a letter to Mr V, for 
him to show future insurers, confirming that only one claim was made. My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the redress set out above 
at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman