DRN-2802300
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited declined a claim under her home 
insurance policy for damage to her swimming pool. 
What happened
Mrs K has an above ground swimming pool in her garden with decking around it. In 
August 2020 she made a claim to Fairmead after the lining was torn. She thought the 
damage had been caused by a squirrel or bird.
Fairmead asked Mrs K to send photos of the damage and a repair quote. She sent the 
photos shortly after but found it difficult at first to get a repair quote.
In November Fairmead declined the claim. It said Mrs K only had accidental damage cover 
for contents rather than buildings. It classed the swimming pool as part of the building rather 
than a content.
Mrs K wasnt happy with that decision. She brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator upheld it in part. He thought Fairmead had treated Mrs K fairly as in his view the 
swimming pool was more like a permanent fixture than a content. He didnt think the claim 
would have been valid in any event because the policy excluded damage caused by vermin. 
But he didnt think Fairmead had treated Mrs K fairly in not telling her it was going to decline 
the claim until about 12 weeks after receiving photos of the swimming pool. He 
recommended Fairmead should pay her £150 compensation for this. 
As Mrs K didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case Fairmead was prepared to cover swimming pools but only as part of the 
buildings cover which Mrs K didnt have.
The definition of Contents in the policy is:
Household items and personal possessions (including personal money, Valuable Items 
and home office equipment up to the limits shown on your schedule) that:
You own;
You are legally responsible for (but not landlords contents).
Household items arent defined but I think the ordinary, everyday meaning of this term is 
the sort of things you use in a home from furnishings and some appliances to small items of 
kitchenware. Theyre usually things that people take with them when they move.
Personal possessions is given a definition by Fairmead. It includes clothing, jewellery and 
gadgets that typically someone might take outside the home with them. 
To my mind a swimming pool could possibly fall within the category of a household item. It 
isnt dug into the garden but sits on top of the decking and can be moved although probably 
not easily. 
However, even if I were to agree with Mrs K that the swimming pool should be classed as a 
content, I still dont think that her claim would be covered. Thats because her policy doesnt 
cover damage:
caused by infestation, chewing, scratching, tearing or fouling by insects or vermin
Vermin is defined as:
any animal or insect that by its nature causes loss or damage, including (but not restricted 
to) rats, mice, squirrels, owls, pigeons, jackdaws, magpies, foxes, bees, wasps and hornets.
Mrs K thinks the liner of the pool was torn by a bird or squirrel. I think a bird that causes that 
sort of damage could reasonably be classed as vermin and the definition already explicitly 
includes squirrels. So I dont think Fairmead treated her unfairly in declining her claim.
It was reasonable for Mrs K to assume that her claim might well be covered after shed 
provided photos of the swimming pool and been asked to obtain a quote for the repair. At the 
time it wasnt easy for her to obtain a quote which ultimately turned out not to be necessary 
since Fairmead declined the claim about 12 weeks later on the basis of the photos. 
Putting things right
I think to treat Mrs K fairly Fairmead should pay her £150 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused by the delay in declining the claim.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mrs K £150 
compensation for the trouble and upset it caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman