DRN-3905340
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R told us The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Platform wrongly said theyd 
missed a mortgage payment in early May 2022. This mistake wasnt rectified by all credit 
reference agencies (CRAs) until late June, and they say it affected their new mortgage.
What happened
Mr R and Mrs R said that Platform made a mistake when they tried to make a large
additional payment to their mortgage, and in early May 2022, while it was trying to put things
right, it ended up recording this as a missed payment. They complained, but this wasnt
removed by all three of the major credit reference agencies (CRAs) until late June.
Mr and Mrs R said they were applying for new mortgages at the time, and this credit file
mark meant they couldnt get the best offers available then. They said they ended up paying
more, over a ten-year fixed interest rate period. So they wanted Platform to pay the
difference each month between the interest rate they could have got without the missed
payment mark, and the one they ended up with.
Platform accepted it made a mistake in how it processed an extra payment for Mr and Mrs
Rs mortgage at the end of April. When it told Mr and Mrs R on 19 May that it had put this
right, it also said that this wouldnt affect Mr and Mrs Rs credit files, but it had. Mr R told
Platform on 20 May this had been marked as a missed payment on his credit file.
Platform said it confirmed with Mr and Mrs R that it would put this right on 23 May. It
contacted the three main CRAs on 24 May to ask for amendments. Two of these CRAs
replied to confirm this was done. But the third said on 8 June that it couldnt find Platforms
customer from the information it had sent, and asked for additional information. Platform
provided that. This third CRA confirmed on 21 June that it had made the changes requested,
but said it might take seven days to show on the credit file. Platform passed this information
on to Mr R on 22 June, so Platform said Mr and Mrs R knew that changes might not yet have
been made, when they made their mortgage application to their preferred lender on 23 June.
Platform accepted it had made a mistake, so it offered a payment of £200 to say sorry for
that. But it said it couldnt be responsible for Mr and Mrs R being refused for a mortgage
offer on 23 June, when it had requested credit file amendments on 24 May. So Platform
wouldnt pay towards their additional mortgage costs.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said she was persuaded 
thatMr and Mrs R would have been accepted for the better mortgage they wanted, at 2.82% 
(from a bank I wont name here, but will call Lender 2) if their credit file wasnt impacted. She 
said Platform shouldve worked faster to get this fixed. So she thought Platform should now 
pay the difference in the monthly interest rates between what Mr and Mrs R would have paid 
at 2.82% and the rate they currently have of 3.3% over the 10 year fixed rate period.
Mr and Mrs R agreed with that, but Platform didnt reply. Because no agreement was
reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision. I then reached my provisional 
decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
I know our investigator felt that Platform was responsible for this mistake, so it was fair 
to ask Platform to pay the difference between what Mr and Mrs R are paying now, and 
what they would have paid if theyd been able to secure a rate of 2.82%. But I think 
there are a number of problems with that.
This is a provisional decision, and either party can provide additional evidence in 
response to this. And here, I do think that there are a considerable number of hurdles for 
Mr and Mrs R to get over, before it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold Platform 
responsible for their additional mortgage costs. Any one of these issues might, 
unfortunately, mean that this complaint isnt upheld. I will set each of these out in turn.
Firstly, I do think that Platform is responsible for the initial credit file error. But Im sorry 
to have to tell Mr and Mrs R that Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable for 
me to hold Platform responsible for that error still being present when Mr and Mrs R 
applied for their mortgage, on 23 June, or after this date.
The internal notes that Platform has sent our service show it asked all three major CRAs 
to remove the error on 24 May. Two of the three CRAs managed to do this without 
difficulty, but the third CRA, which still showed this mistake on 23 June, replied on 8 
June to say it couldnt find the account. Platform gave alternate details then, and it 
chased on 16 June and again on 21 June. This CRA didnt confirm that the requested 
amendments had been made until 22 June.
I havent been able to see that its Platforms fault that the amendments at the third CRA 
werent made in response to either its first or second request for changes. I think that 
means it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to hold Platform responsible for the 
additional costs Mr and Mrs R say they face now, because those changes hadnt been 
made on the day that Mr and Mrs R applied for a mortgage.
Secondly, I havent been able to link the outstanding amendments, at the third CRA, to 
the refusal of a mortgage application made on 23 June by Mr and Mrs R. I know 
Platform had warned Mr R that the changes might take up to a week to show up. And I 
understand that Mr R felt mortgage rates were increasing, and he had to act, so he and 
Mrs R applied for mortgages on 23 June.
Platform has told our service which CRA it was, that was the last to action the requested 
credit file amendment. And I have listened to a call recording on 22 June, where 
Platform named this CRA, in discussion with Mr R. (Again, I wont name this business 
here, I only note that Mr and Mrs R are aware of which CRA this was.)
Mr and Mrs R then applied for mortgages the next day. They said they were turned 
down then for the best deal, with Lender 2. Theyve sent us details of the mortgage they 
applied for, and the application date is 23 June.
I understand they firmly believe that they were declined for the mortgage they really 
wanted on 23 June because of the mistaken credit file marks that Platform recorded. But 
if that was right, then I would expect to see credit searches on both Mr and Mrs Rs 
credit files, from that lender, on 23 June. And Id expect to see these searches made through the only CRA that hadnt yet amended the credit file. I cant see that. I can only 
see searches made by Lender 2, through this CRA, some time later.
I dont know why Mr and Mrs R would have been declined for a mortgage with this 
lender. The only evidence we have of relevant searches or a reason for refusal are both 
dated from late July, by which time I would have expected the amendment Platform 
requested (and which the CRA confirmed had been done on 22 June) to have been fully 
effective. So I havent been able to link this to the one CRA we know may not yet have 
made the required credit file amendments when Mr and Mrs R made their mortgage 
application.
Ive also not been able to conclude that they would otherwise have been successful in 
their application to Lender 2. Although their credit files do now show an unmarked 
payment history, they also show that Mrs R has two other mortgages already, and her 
only income wouldnt cover these mortgages (so may be made up of rental income). 
That may make it less straightforward for Mr and Mrs R, jointly, to obtain a mortgage.
Finally, I also note that Mr and Mrs R arent comparing like with like. The mortgage they 
got was for a smaller amount of money, over a longer period, than the mortgage they 
said they wanted. So even if I thought that Platform was responsible for Mr and Mrs R 
not getting the mortgage they really wanted (which, at the moment, I dont) I would have 
to take into account that, although in the longer term Mr and Mrs R will pay a mortgage 
for longer, at a higher interest rate, in the short term, month to month, they are better off 
by almost £200. 
I havent been able to see in this case that Platform is responsible for Mr and Mrs R 
being refused a mortgage by Lender 2  thats both because I dont think its Platforms 
fault that the mistake it accepts it made, wasnt remedied by 23 June 2022 when Mr and 
Mrs R applied for mortgages, and because I havent been able to see that this mistake 
resulted in Mr and Mrs R then being declined for a mortgage by Lender 2.
I understand that Mr and Mrs R have found this all extremely stressful, and that Mr R 
reported other problems with credit applications before the mistake was rectified. I can 
see Platform offered a payment of £200 to make up for that. I dont think thats quite 
enough for Platforms part in what I think has gone wrong here, and the distress and 
inconvenience that this caused to both Mr and Mrs R, at what is already a stressful time. 
So I think Platform should pay a total of £400 in compensation for this complaint. Ill 
allow Platform to count the amount of £200, which I understand it has already paid, 
towards that total.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Platform replied to my decision to say it agreed to pay the additional £200 I had suggested. 
Mr R replied, on behalf of himself and Mrs R, to disagree. He felt that some key evidence 
hadnt been taken into account. Mr R said Id decided that there was no evidence of credit searches by the bank I referred to 
as Lender 2. But he said his credit file, and that of Mrs R, both showed a credit check from 
Lender 2 on 22 July 2022, which he said was clear evidence that the search was conducted. 
Mr R also said Id suggested that it wasnt entirely clear why their application had been 
rejected, and this could be down to other issues like affordability. But he said he had an 
email from Lender 2 dated 22 July that did set out the reason he and Mrs R were turned 
down, which was related to a decline due to presence of credit arrears at bureau data. Mr 
R said, from their perspective, there can be no clearer indication that the reason for the 
decline was due to the issue in their credit files. He said Lender 2 had confirmed it would 
have lent them in excess of £600,000 on its affordability calculator.
Mr R said it was correct to say that he and Mrs R were now better off by £200 per month, but 
he didnt think that was relevant, just because he and Mrs R had managed to increase their 
deposit. Mr R said the fact remains that if they had not had the error on their credit reports, 
they could have borrowed all the money they needed at 2.82% and not 3.3%. He said the 
cost to them of lending increased, that wasnt their fault, so they still felt their claim was valid. 
He said they were asking for the additional cost of the lending over 10 years.
Mr R said that finally, he wanted to stress that Platform had already admitted that it caused 
the original issue. This was its mistake. So he said that whilst he did have some sympathy 
that Platform had to wait for a third party to change the file back, he and Mrs R also felt that 
Platform didn't act in a timely manner or proactively to fix the issue. 
Mr R said the issue was caused in late April. Platform sent a letter telling them about this on 
19 May, but that said this wouldnt cause them any problems. Mr R said Platform never 
checked that there wouldnt actually be any problems, so it wasn't until he flagged it to 
Platform on 20 May that Platform knew it had affected their credit files. But after this, Mr R 
said Platform didnt check with the CRAs to ensure the issue had been resolved. Mr R said 
he had to raise this again with Platform on 22 June before Platform finally told the relevant 
CRA to fix the file.
Mr R said they hadnt done anything wrong, but due to the actions of third parties the capital 
they had borrowed was significantly more expensive. They said they might be able to 
understand if it was the fault of the last CRA to make the amendments (because it didnt 
make these sooner). But he said their overarching feeling is that the root cause of this was 
Platform, and so it should be liable for the increased cost. 
Mr R said he and Mrs R felt there was ample evidence to point to the fact that Lender 2 
performed a credit check and rejected their mortgage at 2.82% due to the negative marks on 
their credit files. Those negative marks were made by Platform, and it had numerous 
opportunities to fix this before the mortgage offer, but didnt. If it wasnt Platforms fault, Mr R 
said then surely I should hold the relevant CRA responsible. 
Mr R said they also felt that £400 was dramatically far off the right compensation given the 
impact this had on them. He wanted me to look at the case again, because he didnt think 
that the provisional decision reflected all the information he had provided. 
I think there has been some confusion here, and my understanding of events isnt quite what 
Mr R has set out above. Ill set out what I understand the relevant timeline to be, and 
comment on Mr Rs arguments as I go through.
I accept that Platform made the original mistake, and that when it first wrote to Mr and Mrs R 
about this, it said their credit files wouldnt be affected. But Mr R contacted Platform right 
away, on 20 May, to say there was an impact on the files. Platform then contacted all three of the major CRAs to get the marks removed. It received 
confirmation that the requested changes had been made from two of the three CRAs, within 
a couple of weeks of the request. But the third replied on 8 June 2022, to say it couldnt find 
the relevant records. Platform said it replied to this with extra details, and it didnt know why 
this CRA couldnt find the records, using the same details that were sent to the other two. 
This third CRA confirmed that it had made the amendment on 21 June 2022, but said it 
might take seven days to show on the credit files. And Platform passed this information on to 
Mr and Mrs R on 22 June 2022.
Ive seen Platforms internal notes, which support what its said here  and also show, as I 
said in my provisional decision, that Platform did chase up the third CRA to make sure the 
changes were actioned. So I dont think that, as Mr R suggested, Platform didnt check with 
the CRAs to ensure the issue had been resolved after he told Platform there was a problem. 
Nor do I agree that Platform didnt tell the final CRA to fix the credit files until 22 June, when 
Mr R contacted Platform again. Rather, I think that Platform did act promptly to request the 
changes needed, and that it followed up to make sure they were actioned. 
Mr R also said he felt Id ignored evidence of searches on his and Mrs Rs credit file, by 
Lender 2. I dont think thats right. There is evidence that this lender searched Mr and Mrs 
Rs credit files, and I accepted that in my provisional decision. But what I said there was that 
this search, by Lender 2, didnt happen at the same time as they made their application to 
this lender. And, importantly, the search I can see didnt happen at a time when I would 
expect their credit files to still be affected by Platforms mistake.
The date of Mr and Mrs Rs application to this lender appears to have been 23 June. Mr R 
said this was turned down, because the negative marks were still on his credit file. But the 
only evidence we have of when this lender searched Mr and Mrs Rs credit file was on 22 
July  just under a month after their application was apparently made, and more than a 
month from when the last CRA said that those marks would be removed within seven days. 
I dont think its likely that Lender 2 did check Mr and Mrs Rs credit files in June. I dont think 
that search was done until late in July.
I know Platform caused negative marks to be on Mr and Mrs Rs credit files in the first place. 
But I think it did take action to get these removed. And if the negative marks were still on Mr 
and Mrs Rs credit files on 22 July, when Lender 2 searched those files, then that was over a 
month after Platform had finally received reassurances from the relevant CRA that they 
would be removed. If that is what happened here, then I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to hold Platform responsible for any consequences of that.
Mr R said that the reason he was turned down was because of the negative marks, and he 
said the email hed sent was evidence of that. Ive explained I dont think that, if those marks 
were still there, thats Platforms fault. And I also said in my provisional decision, that this 
email doesnt show that Mr and Mrs Rs application to Lender 2 would otherwise have been 
successful. 
Mr and Mrs R said the lenders affordability calculator showed it would lend them what they 
wanted. But that doesnt show me that, if the negative marks had been removed, Lender 2 
would have been happy to give them a mortgage. We dont know if it would have raised 
concerns about Mrs Rs two other pre-existing mortgages, which her income wouldnt cover. 
I set out in my provisional decision that this may have made it less straightforward for Mr and 
Mrs R, jointly, to obtain a mortgage. I still think that.I understand Mr and Mrs R consider theyre paying more for credit now, and the £400 in 
compensation I suggested doesnt come close to covering that. Theyve said this has to be 
someones fault  because it isnt theirs. 
I cannot comment here on what Mr and Mrs R have said about their alternative, that this 
could be the fault of the third CRA, which was apparently last to make the amendments 
required. Its not appropriate for me to reach any view on that, in a complaint which isnt 
brought against that business, and which that business hasnt had any opportunity to 
comment on. I have to confine my decision here to the actions of Platform. And I still think 
that, whilst Platform did cause Mr and Mrs R some inconvenience and quite a bit of stress, 
Platform isnt responsible for the higher cost of lending that they say theyre paying now.
Im sorry to have to tell Mr and Mrs R that, for these reasons, I havent changed my mind. Ill 
now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Platform must pay Mr and Mrs 
R a total of £400 in compensation. The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Platform can count 
towards that amount any payment of compensation it has already made for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman