DRN-1684629
 
The complaint
Mr T complains about Shawbrook Bank Limiteds (Shawbrooks) resolution of a claim he 
made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr T made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Im persuaded there has been a breach of the terms of Mr Ts contract here as the 
bathrooms are clearly not of an acceptable standard and repairs havent been wholly 
satisfactory. Mr T has provided well over 100 photographs. These demonstrated inadequate 
workmanship to areas such as the flooring and panelling, and damaged fittings and fixtures. 
I think its clear the work was not of an acceptable standard.
Shawbrook have had many months in which an independent inspection could have been 
arranged and I dont think it was unfair for Mr T to refuse one after the investigator had 
provided his opinion on this complaint. I think hed already provided sufficient evidence and 
opportunity for further investigation.
Its also clear the work has not been completed within what I think a reasonable person 
would consider a satisfactory timescale. Id think that was clearly the case for the initial work 
and also the remedial work. So, I think thats another reason to consider the contract has 
been breached.
Putting things right
It would not be fair to refund all of the money Mr T has, or will, pay. I say that because its 
clear he has had some benefit from the installations. 
Considering the extent of the damage thats been evidenced, and the delays that Mr T has 
had to suffer, I would agree with the investigator that a deduction of £6,000 on the whole 
contract price is reasonable. 
Mr T has already paid £10,000 so £6,000 should be deducted from the outstanding balance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Shawbrook Bank Limited to 
reduce the amount of credit outstanding on the loan by £6,000. They should ensure that 
interest that would have been charged on that £6,000 is also removed from the outstanding 
balance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman