DRN-3500268
The complaint
Company R complains that Ulster Bank Ltd wont refund the money the company lost after 
they fell victim to an authorised push payment scam.
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at
length here. Briefly, in May 2020, one of the directors of R entered into discussions with 
persons who he believed to be representatives of an investment firm. Following those 
discussions, he made five payments in May 2020 to two different accounts totalling 
£495,000 and one payment in July 2020 for £500,000. The fraud came to light immediately 
after the July payment. He reported the matter to Ulster Bank and the bank managed to 
retrieve the entire July payment. However, unfortunately, it could only recover around £500 
of the £495,000 paid in May 2020.
Company Rs representative complained to the bank that it failed prevent the fraud, and 
therefore it should reimburse the loss to R. The bank did not agree.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and were of the view that the complaint 
could not be upheld. They said, in summary:
Rs claim could not be considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model code 
because R isnt a micro-enterprise.
The payments made to the fraudsters were not particularly unusual given the normal 
account activity. Therefore, it is difficult to conclude that the bank ought to have 
intervened when they were made.
The representative has said that the bank did not cross reference the names of the 
payees or account details with law enforcement or the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
register. However, there isnt an obligation for the bank to automatically do this every 
time it processes a payment for its customer. Further, the specific warning from the FCA 
regarding the cloned investment firm in this case was only published after the 
transactions in May 2020.
There was no Confirmation of Payee check in place at the time the payments were 
made. However, the payees names matched the names on both the accounts to which 
the payments were made. So, even if there was a Confirmation of Payee check, it would 
have come up as match.
Once the fraud came to light, the bank immediately contacted the recipients banks. 
Unfortunately, the funds had already left the beneficiary accounts by the time the fraud 
was uncovered.
Rs representative has said that the director who made the payment suffered from 
serious health issue in 2014, which continued to affect them. As such they were 
vulnerable and the bank failed to take additional steps to protect them from the risks of 
fraud. However, based on available documentation and the fact that the director was 
authorised to make payments on behalf of R and that continued to be the case since 
2014, it is difficult to conclude that Ulster Bank failed to identify the director as 
vulnerable.  
Overall, the investigator was of the view that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to conclude 
that the bank did something wrong in this instance or could otherwise have prevented the 
loss. So, they didnt think it is fair to ask the bank reimburse Rs loss.
R did not agree. They reiterated that the payments to fraudsters were unusual to the normal 
account activity. Their representative acknowledged that there were several payments of 
high value in the months leading up to the fraudulent payments. They said that however 
some of those payments were transfers to Rs deposit account with another bank. Some 
payments were large but only because they were monthly bulk payments to multiple 
suppliers. There were some direct payments to suppliers, but they were sporadic. On the 
other hand, the above five payments were quite distinct  made to two new payees within 
the space of fourteen days. As such the bank ought to have picked them up as unusual and 
spoken to R before allowing the payments to go through
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator broadly for the 
same reasons.
Rs representative has made several points which I have read and considered in their 
entirety. But the purpose of my decision is not to address every point raised in detail. I will 
focus here on what I consider to be the central issues.  
It is not disputed that the payments were authorised by Rs director. Therefore, as mentioned 
by the investigator, the starting position is that the bank is expected to process payments
that its customer authorised it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. However, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for 
banks to take additional steps or checks before processing an authorised payment. 
I have reviewed the account statements for the previous six months prior to the payments to 
fraudsters in May 2020. In summary, there were many payments made out of the account of 
a similar or larger size to the ones made to the fraudsters. R says that some of those 
payments were to their own account with another bank  but they still were external faster 
payments and as such made via the same method used in the payments to the fraudsters. 
There were also other faster payments to (genuine) third parties of similar or larger size. So, 
I dont think it is fair to conclude that the disputed payments were strikingly unusual for the 
bank to have intervened when they were made.
Further, the disputed payments didnt consume all of the funds in Rs account  which might 
have been an indicator it was at risk of fraud. The payments went to two new payees, but 
that alone wouldnt have given the bank much cause for concern.
Ive also looked at whether the bank took the steps it should have once it was aware that the 
payments were the result of fraud. I am satisfied that it did what it could to recover the 
money once it was aware of the fraud. I see that it was able to recover the £500,000 R made in July 2020. But in relation to the May payments it was too late by the time the bank was 
advised of the fraud. The money had already been removed from the receiving accounts.
It is clear that R was a victim of a sophisticated fraud, and I have carefully considered what 
R has said. However, on this occasion, for the reasons given, I am unable to conclude that 
there was an error or omission on part of the bank which caused the loss to R. Therefore, I 
dont think it is fair to ask the bank to reimburse Rs loss. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman