DRN-1483837
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs G dispute a debt with Max Recovery Limited (MRL) and feels it has treated 
her unfairly.
What happened
MRL says it bought this debt (relating to a credit agreement) from a bank in November 2014 
and that it is for Mrs G to repay as it is now in her sole name. MRL accepts that due to not 
having the original paperwork from the time that Mr C and Mrs G took out the credit 
agreement (to have a loan) with the bank, it cannot enforce payment. Nevertheless it says 
Mrs G owes it money and that it is entitled to ask Mrs G to pay the money back.
Mrs G says that MRL has treated her unfairly. Mrs G disputes the sum owed and says MRL 
isnt entitled to collect the amount it says she owes it. Mrs G says MRL has been unfair in 
asking for money to repay the debt. She wants MRL to write off the debt or reduce the 
balance to an amount that it can show she owes. MRL feels it hasnt done anything wrong.
Mrs G complained to MRLs representatives and it said MRL hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mrs G disagreed, so she complained here. The Investigator did not agree with Mrs G. As 
Mrs G remains unhappy this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MRL and Mrs G dont agree on some of the key issues here. So I can only make my 
decision based on the evidence provided to me by the parties. In short I must decide what is 
most likely to have happened. Or in other words, what happened on the balance of 
probabilities.
Having considered all of Mrs Gs arguments Im not persuaded to uphold this complaint. I 
say this for the following reasons.
I have seen records from the bank showing it had a bad debt in relation to Mrs G and a 
personal loan she had with it. Ive seen statements from the bank showing this account with 
Mr C & Mrs Gs name on it and monthly payments being made to the loan. Ive seen a notice 
of assignment showing the bank sold the debt to MRL. And MRL has shown statements for 
most of the years since it bought the debt showing Mrs G to be the debtor solely. It has also 
provided an account history covering March 2017 to date. Ive not seen anything persuasive 
from Mrs G to show she doesnt have a debt with MRL. And I note in her arguments that 
although she says she doesnt think the outstanding balance hasnt been demonstrated she 
doesnt deny that she had a debt with HSBC or that MRL didnt buy it. So I think on balance 
Mrs G has a debt with MRL.
I can see statements from the bank showing the loan being drawn down in December 2007-
the amount advanced being £24,412.09. These statements show the regular payments 
towards it starting to bounce in 2009. In 2010 I can see the regular monthly payment to this 
account drops to £90.49. The balance in July 2010 is £15,464.66. From another automated 
print-out (post charge-off account) I can see payments of £90.49 being made twice in 2010 
and then another payment of £971.85 in October 2013 (which I calculate to leave a balance 
of around £14,311). There is then evidence of an IVA being in place and then failing. So 
although I dont know what payments were made whilst the IVA was in place, I can see MRL 
stating the balance was £13102 in January 2015.
 
From MRLs records (and its representatives arguments) I can see another payment of 
£504.83 leaving an outstanding balance of £12,597.31 in February 2019 (which is what is 
outstanding when this service last spoke to MRLs representatives). 
So although out of the thirteen-year debt we have approximately fourteen months missing 
data, I can see that MRL bought the debt directly from the source bank of the debt and have 
administered it or been involved ever since. I can also see that Mrs G isnt arguing she didnt 
have a debt with the bank or that shes made any significant payments to MRL over the last 
few years. I can also see the Investigator asked Mrs G to provide evidence of any payments 
she thinks shes made which havent been properly accounted for-but Mrs G has not argued 
this point or provided evidence showing payments being made. I can see the original debt 
was held jointly between Mrs G and Mr C-so both were jointly responsible and as such Mrs 
G could be held liable for the entire debt. It is not clear why it is solely in Mrs Gs name now. 
But bearing in mind the progression of the account over time and no persuasive evidence to 
the contrary Im satisfied the amount MRL says Mrs G owes is the amount owed and its fair 
and reasonable for MRL to seek repayment of that amount.
MRL has accepted and told Mrs G that due to the circumstances it cannot seek enforcement 
of the debt. And it has said it has not described this account as being enforceable. It is not 
for this service to decide on whether or not a debt is enforceable-that is for the courts. 
However this service can decide on whether it is fair and reasonable for MRL to ask Mrs G 
to pay this debt and if so how much.
Having considered the evidence, on balance, Im satisfied Mrs G owed £12,597.31 in 
February 2019 as MRL says. So I am not persuaded by what Mrs G says on the amount 
owed and think MRL are entitled to ask her to repay the amount she owes it. The fact that 
MRL accepts that this is not enforceable doesnt mean Mrs G doesnt owe the money or that 
MRL cannot ask her to repay it.
Mrs G says MRL has acted unfairly. Ive considered the account history MRL has provided 
and the statements provided. From this Ive not seen any persuasive evidence that MRL has 
treated Mrs G unfairly. She hasnt pointed to any particular incidents as being aggressive or 
unfair. And I cant see from the correspondence history any examples of her complaining 
about her treatment by MRL. All in all Im not persuaded Mrs G has been treated unfairly 
here by MRL. And I dont think it has acted aggressively towards her.
So I dont see any reason for the debt to be written off or for MRL to cease collection activity. 
I dont think MRL need to take any further action regarding this complaint as Im not 
persuaded it has done anything wrong. Im not persuaded she has been treated unfairly by 
MRL in the circumstances. So, in short, this complaint does not succeed. 
I note MRL has said it is willing to take a payment of £6,000 in full and final settlement of this 
debt (which is more than twice this offer amount). Mrs G has refused this. Accordingly I see 
no reason for MRL to not to try and get Mrs G to pay all the money owed.I appreciate Mrs G would rather not pay this debt and that shell be disappointed by my 
decision. However Im satisfied she owes MRL and that it is entitled to ask her to repay it 
until either she does pay or MRL decides to stop trying to get her to pay it.
If she changes her mind about paying the offer amount she should speak to MRL to see if 
the offer is still open. It is up to MRL whether it is willing to take a lower amount in full and 
final settlement of the debt.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint against Maximum Recovery 
Limited. It has nothing more to do with regard to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman