DRN-4237622
The complaint
Miss B has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) acted irresponsibly by 
providing her with a £250 overdraft.
 
What happened
Miss B successfully applied online for an overdraft with a limit of £250 in November 2017. All 
overdraft applications after this point were declined. 
Miss B complained to RBS that the overdraft lending was irresponsible. RBS said based on 
the checks it did both internally and externally there was no adverse information which 
should have led it to question the information Miss B had provided about her income and 
expenditure and that it was satisfied the lending was affordable. 
Miss B was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to this service. On review of Miss 
Bs circumstances RBS agreed to bring her overdraft to a nil balance as a gesture of 
goodwill.  
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss B s complaint and thought that there wasnt 
enough information to show the overdraft wasnt affordable or that Miss B was struggling to 
manage her money and thought that what RBS had agreed to do was a fair way to settle her 
complaint. 
Miss B disagreed. She doesnt feel clearing the overdraft is enough. She says she suffers 
from multiple mental health conditions that have been made worse by the overdraft lending. 
So Miss B has now asked that her complaint be progressed for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including the 
key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive referred to this 
when deciding Miss Bs complaint. Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not 
to uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
RBS needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
RBS needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss B 
would be able to repay what she was being lent before providing any credit to her. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether RBS did what it needed to before 
agreeing to Miss Bs overdraft. Miss B was given what was an open-ended credit facility. So 
overall this means the checks RBS carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to 
understand whether Miss B would be able to repay her overdraft within a reasonable period 
of time. 
Miss B first applied for a £250 overdraft in November 2017. Miss Bs application was 
deemed affordable taking into account information Miss B provided about her income and 
expenditure as well as information held by other lenders provided through credit reference 
checks. And based on this information RBS was satisfied her score was high enough to 
provide her with the overdraft limit and facility she requested.
I accept that Miss B has told us she suffered from a gambling addiction and that her financial 
position may well have been worse than the credit check carried out showed or in any 
information she disclosed to RBS at the time. And it is possible that further checks might 
have told RBS this. But given the relatively low amount of credit being advanced, that her 
monthly income and expenditure showed a surplus of more than the overdraft limit and her 
statements showed little gambling activity at the time, I think RBSs checks went far enough 
and it was reasonably entitled to rely on the credit check it carried out. 
That said, even though Miss Bs overdraft wasnt provided irresponsibly, RBS still wont have 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss B if it applied any interest, fees and charges to 
Miss Bs account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
have been aware Miss B was experiencing financial difficulty. 
So Ive considered whether there were instances where RBS didnt treat Miss B fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that RBS did treat Miss B unfairly or unreasonably though. I say this 
because having looked at Miss Bs statements I dont think there is enough to persuade me 
that RBS ought to have realised she might have been experiencing financial difficulty and 
was struggling to manage her money prior to it being notified of this. 
The statements show that Miss B did use her overdraft and as time passed the gambling 
increased, but that in itself isnt enough to show that RBS ought to have known Miss B was 
struggling and that the overdraft lending wasnt sustainable. Miss B was receiving regular 
credits into her account that at times brought her account into credit and if not into credit 
significantly reduced it. I accept that Miss Bs statements in 2020 showed more gambling 
transactions but there were equally as many other non-committed, non-contractual 
discretionary transactions. 
Again, this doesnt necessarily mean Miss B wasnt struggling. But I dont think there is 
enough here which ought to have alerted RBS to have taken action and withdrawn the 
overdraft before Miss B got in touch. And in these circumstances, I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for RBS to proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges it did.
In any case RBS as a gesture of goodwill have agreed to bring the overdraft to a nil balance 
and effectively wipe the debt off. Taking this all into consideration, Im not persuaded further 
compensation is due or would make a material difference to Miss B s circumstances. So it 
follows that I think what RBS has done is a fair way to settle Miss Bs complaint and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has 
already done to put things right for Miss B is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case. So Im not requiring it to do any more.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman