DRN-2931171
The complaint
Ms H complains that Santander UK plc wouldnt pay cashback on her monthly gas direct 
debit. 
What happened
Ms H has a 123-current account with Santander, which pays cash back on eligible 
household bills. Shortly after changing gas supplier, Ms H discovered that she was not being 
paid cashback for this bill.
In response to Ms Hs complaint Santander says its terms and conditions say it will only pay 
cash back on payments made to eligible companies and that Ms Hs gas supplier isnt 
eligible. 
Our adjudicator looked into this already and didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that the 
terms and conditions for Ms Hs account allowed cash back for payments to eligible 
organisations only and it was for Santander to decide on which organisations are eligible. Ms 
H doesnt accept that view, as she believes that is discriminatory that companies that supply 
Liquid Petroleum Gas (LPG) are in general not included in the cashback scheme, as this 
means that people in areas without a direct gas supply are unfairly penalised.
So this complaint was passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am of the opinion that Santander has not done anything wrong in relation 
to this. Let me explain why
The terms and conditions of Ms Hs account make it clear that only payments to eligible 
organisations will attract cash back. The terms and conditions, which I have seen, and the 
website, make reference to selected household bills only. The website can also check the 
eligibility of organisations. I think that Santander is entitled to make a commercial decision 
on what organisations are eligible. And although Ms H feels that the decision to not include 
companies that supply LPG is discriminatory against those who dont have a mains gas 
supply, that is ultimately a decision that Santander is entitled to make.
I note Ms Hs comments that her previous supplier was covered, and it supplied LPG gas. 
And I can see that she has supplied a letter confirming this. Whereas Santander say that this 
supplier is not on the list of eligible suppliers. I should add for the sake of completeness that 
on the Santander website, the provider in question is not currently on the list of eligible 
suppliers. So its possible it has been changed. But either way, I dont think that this affects 
the outcome of this complaint. Because again, the terms and conditions of the account give 
Santander the right to say what company is on or off the list of cashback providers. And this 
is not something I am able to ask Santander to change.
I completely understand that Ms H will be disappointed by this. But current accounts such as 
these come with a range of benefits and it may be the case that due to an individual 
circumstances, they may not be able to take advantage of some the benefits. But this does 
not mean that the account provider has necessarily done something wrong. 
In this instance, I am satisfied that the terms and conditions of the account make it clear that 
the cashback is only available with certain providers and it gives a provision for an account 
holder to check if a company is on the eligible list. I dont think that Santander needs to do 
anything more in relation to his matter. So it is essentially up to Ms H to decide whether to 
continue to hold this account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman