DRN-3897528
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as L, complains that Santander UK PLC acted unfairly when 
restricting and subsequently closing its bank account without notice or explanation.
Mr C is Ls director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
L banked with Santander. 
In May 2021, Santander undertook a review of Ls account. The bank applied a restriction to 
Ls account on 18 May, meaning that L couldnt make or receive payments. This remained in 
place while the review was conducted.
Mr C complained to Santander, unhappy with both the restriction on the companys account 
and the lack of notice or explanation the bank had given for this action. Santander 
apologised for any inconvenience caused, but said only that it couldnt allow any 
transactions at the current time or any explanation for this.
The review culminated in Santander withdrawing its services from L. The bank wrote to L on 
or around 18 June 2021 to advise that it had closed the companys account, and enclosed a 
cheque for the closing account balance.
Mr C doesnt think Santanders actions were justified and says they caused L financial 
losses and damaged its reputation.
One of our investigators reviewed Ls complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. In 
summary, he said that Santander had shown that it had restricted and reviewed Ls account 
in order to fulfil its legal and regulatory obligations. And as the terms and conditions of the 
account entitled the bank to restrict and subsequently close the account in the manner it 
had, he couldnt see that it had done anything wrong.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view. He still believed that Santanders abrupt restriction 
and removal of Ls account had been unwarranted, particularly given the companys 
stringent compliance with the requirements of its own industry regulator, and that the bank 
had prolonged its retention of the companys funds. So he asked that an ombudsman review 
the complaint and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, Santander has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to 
meet in providing banking services to its customers. Banks are required to keep accounts 
and their use under review, and may need to suspend access or services in order to do so. 
Ls compliance with the requirements of its own regulator, or the conduct of its business 
more broadly, wouldnt automatically remove or reduce Santanders rights or obligations in 
this regard. 
The terms and conditions of Ls account allowed Santander to suspend its services. And I 
dont think it was unreasonable for it to do so in the circumstances here. Santander has 
explained that it reviewed and restricted Ls account in order to comply with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that this was the case. 
And while I appreciate that it wouldve been concerning for Mr C to discover the restriction, 
Santander wasnt required to give L prior notice of the restriction or explain the reasons it 
had been applied.
L was unable to use its account while the review was completed, which took around one 
month. Theres no set timeframe within which such reviews must be concluded and I dont 
think one month was unreasonable in the circumstances. 
The findings of Santanders review led it to withdraw its services from L. That was a decision 
it was entitled to make, and the applicable terms and conditions allowed the bank to close 
Ls account immediately. Ive not seen anything to suggest that decision was reached 
unfairly or unreasonably. Again, Santander wasnt required to disclose the reasons for its 
decision to L and I cant fairly require it to do so. 
Santander released the account balance to L once it had concluded its review, sending a 
cheque with the letter it sent to the company in mid-June. So I dont think the bank retained 
Ls funds for any longer than necessary.
Ive no doubt that the restriction and closure of its account will have adversely affected Ls 
operations. But as Ive not found that Santander did anything wrong in taking these actions, 
there is no basis on which I could require it to compensate L for any impact they had.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman