DRN-3260993
The complaint
Mr E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) is holding him liable for unauthorised 
transactions on his accounts. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in January 2022, setting out what I was 
minded to conclude: 
What I can  and cant  consider
We cant look at every complaint thats referred to us. We can only consider a 
complaint if it falls within certain criteria laid down in our case-handling rules, which 
are found in the Dispute Resolution section of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook (available online).
Amongst other things, the rules say we can only consider complaints brought by, or 
on behalf of, eligible complainants. DISP 2.7.3(R) says a complainant is eligible if, in 
summary, they are a consumer, a micro-enterprise, a charity, a trustee of a trust, a 
consumer buy-to-let consumer, a small business, or a guarantor. And the complaint 
must arise from matters relevant to certain types of relationships with the 
respondent, as set out in DISP 2.7.6(R). Relevant here is a complaint arising from a 
customer relationship.
Mr E says hes complaining about payments from his business and personal 
accounts. But the business account wasnt held in his personal name. It was held 
by the limited company he was a director of. And that company is a separate legal 
entity to him  and would be the eligible complainant, rather than him, due to the 
complaint arising from its own customer relationship with Barclays.
Whilst the limited company was active at the time of the transactions Mr E is 
disputing, the key here is whether its now eligible to bring the complaint to our 
service. The limited company is now dissolved. So theres no longer an eligible 
complainant. That means I cant consider the transactions made from the account 
held by the limited company. I can only consider the payments from the accounts 
Mr E held as a consumer (i.e. in his personal capacity).
Merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has made detailed submissions, which Ive read and considered  along with 
everything else  in their entirety. I wont be responding in the same level of detail. It 
isnt my role to respond to each and every point made, and I hope the parties wont 
consider this a discourtesy. In keeping with our role for quick and informal 
resolution, Ill be concentrating on the crux of the issue.
Overall, Im minded to agree with the conclusions reached by our investigators 
for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Mr E would generally 
be held liable for the payments if he authorised them  i.e. if they were 
correctly authenticated, and he consented to them being made. Hed also 
be held liable if he failed to comply with his obligations (such as keeping his 
security details safe), either intentionally or due to gross negligence, and 
that allowed the transactions to be made. Ill be deciding this on the balance 
of probability  i.e., based on the available information, what I think is more 
likely to have happened.
Its not in dispute that these payments were properly authenticated. So the 
key here is how someone could have made these transactions without Mr 
Es consent as he says happened.
Mr E has told us that his car, mobile and card has been stolen on several 
occasions  in 2018, 2019 and 2020. And that he was forced to access his 
accounts at knife or gun point. He also says a card was allowed to continue 
running after he cancelled it when it was swallowed by an ATM (although this 
relates to the limited company account, so isnt something I can comment on). 
And his phone and email were hacked.
Im not persuaded Mr E has given a clear explanation about how someone 
got hold of his PIN, PINsentry card reader, as well as his online banking 
details, as would have been needed to make the transactions hes disputing. 
Given the scale of the theft hes reporting, Id need more to support this. 
Such as clear records about the accounts and devices he says were 
hacked, and about each of the thefts hes told us about.
Some payments Mr E is disputing went to an existing beneficiary. Its 
unclear why a fraudster would pay someone who Mr E had consented to 
pay previously.
The disputed payments took place over a period of years. Most were made 
via online banking, in amongst other transactions Mr E hasnt disputed  
based on the statements he submitted to us and the bank when reporting 
the fraud claim. Its unclear to me how someone else would have been able 
to make unauthorised transactions, without his knowledge or consent, in 
amongst ones it seems he did consent to. Or why he wouldnt have taken 
further action if he was aware that his account was at risk, due to having his 
card  and other sensitive items and details  stolen. Especially given the 
scale of the theft hes reported.
Mr E has made some mention of being abroad when the fraud occurred, as a 
reason for why he didnt report it sooner. But hes also told us he was robbed 
on three different occasions  and I can see he was in contact with the police 
(although the information provided doesnt clearly show this related to his 
bank accounts) during this time. Overall, it seems unlikely that fraud to this 
scale could have occurred without Mr Es knowledge. And that, if he had 
known, he wouldnt have taken further action to mitigate the loss  such as notifying Barclays sooner. I also wouldnt consider it fair to hold Barclays 
liable if Mr E was on notice of the risk that his account was being accessed, 
without taking reasonable measures to stop this.
Overall, Im not persuaded Ive got enough to show how an unauthorised 
party (or parties) got the details needed to complete these transactions. So 
I dont consider it fair to hold Barclays liable for them.
Im conscious there may be more context (beyond what weve been told) to 
these transactions. The investigators encouraged Mr E to let us know if 
there was anything further he wanted to disclose. And Ive taken into 
account what hes told us about the fraud. If the circumstances were 
somewhat different, Id need to consider whether Barclays did anything 
wrong. Such as whether it ought to have been aware that Mr E was at risk 
from fraud, but failed to take appropriate action. Ive not seen any indication 
that was the case here.
Barclays has also paid compensation  in the region of £400  for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused Mr E in its handling of his fraud claim. 
Im not minded to award further compensation. Im satisfied the time taken 
was largely due to the complexity and scale of the fraud reported. And the 
main concern Mr E reported when he raised his case was that Barclays 
was too quick  not that it took too long. Whilst Barclays admits some 
failings, Im satisfied the compensation offered fairly reflects the impact its 
errors had on Mr E. Overall, Ive found it investigated the claim fairly and 
reached a reasonable conclusion, based on the evidence provided.
I invited both parties to submit any further comments or evidence. Barclays confirmed it 
had nothing further to add. Mr E said (in summary): Barclays allowed over £100,000 to be 
stolen, and admits it never cancelled his card; when everything was stolen, other banks 
cancelled everything and that prevented fraud on those accounts; everything was stolen 
from the bag in his car and he was threatened to give over his PIN, plus they ported his 
two numbers to other networks and hacked his email; and the person/people the disputed 
transactions went to werent existing beneficiaries, and hes reported them to the police. 
Mr E has also provided some further documents, such as emails relating to mobile 
banking, a sales invoice and letter to one of the alleged perpetrators and a robbery report.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint  largely for the reasons already 
given in my provisional decision (please see above). So Ill focus on responding to the 
further comments and evidence Mr E has submitted. As with my provisional decision, Id 
highlight that Im focussing on addressing the crux of the issue rather than each and every 
point made. 
For the reasons explained in my provisional decision, I cant consider the activity on the 
business account. And my understanding is this is what Mr Es allegations about the 
cancelled card relates to. So I cant consider this point. More broadly, Id explain that its my 
understanding that its not possible for more than one card to be active on an account. 
Ive considered what Mr E has told us about the thefts, along with the supporting evidence 
hes provided about this. I can see hes been in contact with the police about an individual hes named in connection with the scam. But I still dont have clear records showing how 
each theft unfolded, when that was, and that it involved Mr Es bank details being shared 
and his card/PINsentry being stolen on each occasion. Additionally, if his bank account was 
compromised due to the thefts, given he was in contact with the police about this, its unclear 
why he didnt contact his bank too. 
Mr E says the funds didnt go to an existing payee. It seems the fraud wasnt reported in one 
go, but he went back several times to dispute various payments. Regardless, even if I accept 
that all the payments to the individual are now being disputed, the point remains that a 
number of undisputed transactions occurred during the period of alleged fraud. What Ive 
been told doesnt explain why this is, and why Mr E therefore wouldnt have contacted his 
bank sooner if he wasnt authorising all the payments. 
I appreciate Mr E says his phone and email were also compromised. Its not particularly 
clear how that relates to the thefts. Or how Mr E now has access to the emails hes 
forwarded me, showing that mobile banking had been set up, if his email address was 
hacked. The records hes sent me of his contact with network providers also dont show how, 
or if, the matter was resolved. Im not persuaded this is enough to explain the scale of 
unauthorised transactions Mr E has reported.
Overall, Ive not got enough compelling evidence to safely conclude that the payments were 
unauthorised. A key point here is that Mr E says he was robbed on multiple occasions, over 
a period of years, and this involved handing over his direct banking details. Yet despite this 
happening dating back to 2018, he didnt report anything to Barclays until 2020. Whereas he 
must have been in the country for the thefts to occur, and hes also shown us he was in 
contact with the police (and others) during this time. There are also other payments during 
this period that he didnt dispute  including payments to himself. As explained in my 
provisional decision, I wouldnt consider it fair to hold Barclays liable if Mr E knew (or ought 
to have known) his account was at risk  but didnt take any measures against this. So I 
dont consider it fair to direct Barclays to reimburse Mr E for these payments.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman