DRN-2037928
The complaint
Mr M complains that American Express Services Europe Limited ('AESEL') misled him about 
how it would treat a late payment. Hes also unhappy about the service he received.
What happened
Mr M has a credit card with AESEL and in or around June 2019, it reported to credit 
reference agencies (CRAs) that hed made a late payment. This was after Mr M called 
AESEL on 1 June to explain hed suffered a bereavement and due to unexpected expenses 
that followed, he wasnt able to make payment by the due date of 5 June. He made the 
payment on 13 June instead. 
Mr M complained to AESEL. He said its call handler told him that if payment was made 
within the same month as the due date, this would prevent any impact on his credit file. He 
was also unhappy with the time he spent on calls trying to resolve this matter. 
AESEL refunded Mr M the late payment fee of £12, but it refused to remove the late 
payment marker on his credit file. AESEL said that whilst it sympathised with Mr Ms 
situation, it had a duty to accurately report how customers accounts are managed to CRAs. 
In this case, Mr Ms payment was late and this wasnt the first time hed let them know about 
a bereavement impacting on his ability to make a payment on time. AESEL said it hadnt 
found any failings in the service it provided to him. Unhappy with this response, Mr M 
referred the matter to our service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. In brief, he didnt think there was any 
evidence that AESEL had misinformed Mr M about how it dealt with late payments. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to offer Mr M my condolences for his loss. I understand this must be a difficult 
time for him and his family. Id also like to add that I appreciate how strongly Mr M feels 
about the issues leading to his complaint. And while I accept he may want answers to every 
question hes asked, Im not required to provide answers to everything. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. It just reflects the informal nature of our service. I will instead focus my 
decision on what I think are the key issues.
AESEL hasnt been able to provide any of the call recordings. Its been able to provide 
transcripts for some calls, but not for the call made on 1 June (the call). Mr M thinks AESEL 
has conveniently disposed of this to prevent a thorough investigation of his complaint. But 
in my view, AESEL has provided reasonable explanations as to why these recordings arent 
available, which this service has passed on to Mr M. And Im satisfied that there is sufficient 
information to reach a fair and reasonable outcome in this case. 
The parties dispute what was said on the call. Mr M says he was wrongly told that if he made 
the payment within the same month of its due date, this payment wouldnt adversely affect 
his credit record. AESEL on the other hand says as this is against its process, its call handler 
is unlikely to have said this. So I must decide on a balance of probabilities, or in other words, 
what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
AESELs process, along with most other lenders, is to report accurate information about how 
accounts are managed to CRAs. In AESELs case, it does so on a monthly basis. And its 
entitled to do so under the terms and conditions of the credit card account. AESEL says that 
due to the nature of his enquiry on 1 June, Mr M was likely to have been put through to a call 
handler who deals with customers facing financial difficulties. Therefore, I think its likely the 
call handler wouldve known a late payment may be reported to the CRAs by AESEL. 
Further, I cant see anything in the terms of the account that would suggest a payment made 
in the same month would avoid it being considered a late payment by AESEL. So, on 
balance, I dont think Mr M was misled about the way a late payment would be dealt with by 
AESEL, regardless of whether it was paid in the same month as the due date or not.
Mr M also says AESEL said in later calls, that it would arrange to reverse the late payment 
marker from his credit file. From the call transcripts Ive seen, no promises were made that 
this would happen. AESEL has decided not to reverse its decision. Its taken into account 
that this isnt the first time Mr M said a bereavement has impacted on his ability to pay on 
time. And given AESEL has a duty to report information to CRAs that is accurate so that 
other lenders can decide whether or not to lend to a prospective borrower, Im not going to 
tell AESEL to remove the late payment marker. And I think by refunding the late payment fee 
to Mr Ms account, its acted fairly and reasonably to his particular situation.
In terms of the customer service, Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that Mr M did 
receive requested call backs within reasonable timescales. And AESEL also offered him 
extra reward points for the time hed spent waiting to get through to the relevant department. 
All in all, I consider AESEL has acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr M about 
this matter.
For all the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman