DRN-1439618
The complaint
Mrs A complains that she wasnt alerted to a fraudulent transaction by Barclays Bank UK 
PLC trading as Barclaycard. She also complains that she hasnt been properly compensated 
for the distress, inconvenience and cost associated with the situation.
What happened
Mrs A had a credit card account with Barclaycard, and contacted it because she disputed a 
£9,432.89 payment to a company based in Australia. Mrs A told Barclaycard she didnt 
authorise the transaction. She wanted to know how someone had managed to use her 
personal details, and why Barclaycard had allowed the payment to be processed.
Barclaycard explained it hadnt contacted Mrs A because the transaction did not meet our 
fraud prevention criteria, therefore you were not contacted. It explained it was likely her card 
details had been compromised, but it didnt explain how. It accepted Mrs A hadnt authorised 
the transaction and refunded the money, including any associated fees. It confirmed Mrs As 
credit score wouldnt be affected, and that the credit reference agencies had been updated 
with the correct outstanding balance. It said it would also pay Mrs A £3.80 that shed paid to 
send it letters associated with the disputed transaction. It accepted it had set up a second 
complaint in error, for which it apologised and offered Mrs A £50 compensation.
Mrs A wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service. She explained she was 
unhappy thered been a fraudulent transaction despite her credit card account being 
registered for Barclaycard Secure Services for online transactions. She said the card had 
been in her possession, and queried why she wasnt sent an alert, having previously been 
alerted following a £650 transaction. She also suggested there might have been internet 
fraud or misuse of her personal information, which Barclaycard was trying to cover up. 
She said she wanted compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered, 
including the cost of sending letters by recorded delivery, and the fact her credit history 
might be affected. She also wanted compensation for lost earnings, as shed taken the day 
off work to write to Barclaycard. And she wanted the Barclaycard Secure Service for online 
transactions to notify her of transactions on the account, and assurance that her personal 
details are kept safe and in accordance with data protection rules.
Barclaycard explained the transaction was completed using a card and signature, but it 
couldnt explain when or how Mrs As details had been compromised. Commenting on the 
allegation that it was trying to cover up the fact her personal information had been misused, 
it stated its employees are subject to risk checks and a rigorous confidentiality policy.
Our investigator didnt feel the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied Barclaycard 
had carried out the correct fraud prevention steps, and that its investigation of the disputed 
transaction was fair and undertaken in a timely manner. He noted Barclaycard accepted Mrs 
A hadnt authorised the payment and that it had returned the disputed amount, and blocked 
and cancelled the card, and he felt that was fair. He considered the possibility of internal 
fraud but concluded there was no evidence of any wrongdoing. And he was satisfied 
Barclays had assured Mrs A her credit score wouldnt be affected and that it had notified the credit reference agencies of the correct balance. Finally, he didnt think Barclays needed to 
compensate her for the time she took off work to write to it. 
Mrs A wasnt satisfied and has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
She maintains her personal information was mishandled, she should have been alerted to 
the transaction by text and the unusual nature of the transaction should have prompted a 
fraud alert. She doesnt accept her card was used because it was in her possession and she 
hadnt travelled to Australia. And shes asked for a copy of the signature that was used.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs As complained that Barclaycard didnt respond to a letter she sent in May 2019, but this 
service doesnt consider complaints handling as its not a regulated activity. But, I will 
consider Barclaycards overall handling of the situation in my assessment of whether Mrs As 
entitled to any more than the £50 compensation its already offered.
Mrs As said this was an online transaction and therefore she should have been alerted to it. 
But Barclaycard has said it wasnt an online transaction and the card and signature were 
present. I accept Mrs A had taken reasonable care of her card and that it was in her 
possession, but I consider she was probably a victim of card cloning or card skimming, a 
process whereby her information was copied at a credit card terminal using an electronic 
device or software. That information would then have been transferred to a new card and 
subsequently used without the need for the original card to be present. Mrs A has asked for 
a copy of the signature that was used, and she is free to approach Barclaycard for that 
information. But, based on the available information, Im satisfied this wasnt an online 
transaction and so Barclaycard wasnt obliged to send a text alert. 
Mrs As suggested there was possibly internal fraud, but I havent seen any evidence this is 
what has happened. Barclaycard has explained the transaction didn't meet its fraud 
prevention criteria and so it was processed as normal. Mrs As argued the transaction was 
unusual and I agree that it was and probably should have been flagged up as such. But the 
question for me to consider is whether its failure to alert Mrs A to the transaction has 
resulted in any loss or unfairness, and I dont think that it has. Barclaycard investigated the 
disputed transaction in a timely manner and has accepted the transaction was fraudulent 
and issued a full refund. Im satisfied thats fair.
Barclaycard has explained that Mrs As credit history wont be affected and its refunded the 
money she paid to send it letters via recorded delivery. So, Im satisfied theres no financial 
loss. I accept shes spent time dealing with the issue and that this has been inconvenient, 
but thats because of the fraud, rather than the way the situation has been handled by 
Barclaycard, so it doesnt need to compensate her. Im also satisfied its not for Barclaycard 
to compensate Mrs A for the time she took off work to write to it, because I think she could 
reasonably have corresponded with Barclays without having time off work. 
Im satisfied the disputed transaction was investigated in a fair and timely manner and that 
Barclaycard did nothing to add to the distress and inconvenience Mrs A suffered as a result 
of the fraudulent activity on her credit card account. Overall, Im satisfied shes been treated 
fairly and reasonably by Barclaycard, and I dont think it needs to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman