DRN-4253954
The complaint
Mr W complains that Chetwood Financial Limited, trading as LiveLend, lent to him 
irresponsibly when it gave him a fixed sum loan agreement which he says he couldnt afford.
What happened
Mr W took out a loan agreement with LiveLend for £8,000 in May 2020. He settled the loan 
early in September 2021.
 
Mr W says that LiveLend shouldnt have lent to him because he was struggling with other 
debt, and he had a gambling problem. He thinks LiveLend was negligent in allowing him to 
take the loan and asks that LiveLend pay back all interest and charges on the loan.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. Mr W disagreed.
Our investigator reviewed the further points Mr W made but concluded it didnt make a 
difference to their view.
 As Mr W didnt agree with the investigators view his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Ws complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as that of our investigator. I will explain 
why I have reached this decision.
LiveLend needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Ws income and expenditure. There is no set list of checks a 
business has to do. 
In Mr Ws case, LiveLend has provided evidence of the checks it completed, and the 
information Mr W gave during his application. Mr W declared a net monthly salary of £3,135 
a month, which LiveLend verified through credit checks. It also checked Mr Ws credit record 
where it found Mr W had a mortgage costing around £666 a month. He had other unsecured 
debt totalling around £20,000 and revolving credit debt of around £5,000. His repayments on 
his existing unsecured debt plus the costs of the new loan were about 25% of Mr Ws 
monthly income (our investigator said it was about 45%, but I am satisfied it was lower), 
Mr Ws declared essential expenditure of around £1,500 which LiveLend then cross checked 
with Office of National Statistics data. Taking into account Mr Ws essential bills and his 
credit commitments including the new loan, Mr W would have been left with a disposable 
income of around £225 a month, which made the loan affordable. On this basis, I dont think 
LiveLend needed to do any more detailed checks.
Mr W explains that he had a gambling addiction. He says he used the loan to pay back his 
mother from whom he had borrowed money to support his gambling. He says if LiveLend 
had asked to see his bank statements then it would have realised he was in financial 
difficulty and wouldnt be able to afford the repayments. 
I can see that Mr W did transfer some of the loan to a third party and that he did gamble a 
significant amount of the remaining loan. Its likely that LiveLend would have noted this if it 
had asked him for his bank statements. But I dont think it needed to do that. I am satisfied 
that the checks it completed were proportionate to the information it had about Mr W and I 
think it acted fairly on the information it obtained.
It also noted that Mr W was managing his other credit well, with no evidence of recent 
missed payments, arrears, defaults or CCJs
Mr W says the information relied upon by LiveLend was incorrect. He says the assessment 
of his income was too high. Hes provided bank statements to show his net income was 
closer to £2,380. And he says that he was solely responsible for all the household expenses, 
including the mortgage held jointly with his partner, as she wasnt working. 
It may well be that Mr Ws expenses were higher than LiveLends modelling. However, that 
doesnt mean it didnt complete necessary and proportionate checks or that it did anything 
else wrong. Mr Ws net income was lower than an income declaration of £40-50,000 would 
suggest; it equates to a gross salary of about £37,000 a year. Its possible that Mr W had 
deductions from his gross income, such as salary sacrifice schemes for childcare vouchers 
or a pension, which made his net income lower. I also note that he declared an income of 
£43,700 in another credit application made in the same month. So, I dont think LiveLend 
overestimated his income to such an extent that it should have been clear it wasnt realistic.
In relation to Mr Ws essential expenditure, I think it was reasonable for LiveLend to rely on 
modelling based on Office of National Statistics data. The rules1 which relate to consumer 
credit state that a business may take into account statistical data unless it knows or has 
reasonable cause to suspect that the consumers non-discretionary expenditure is 
significantly higher than that described in the data or that the data are unlikely to be 
reasonably representative of the consumers situation. In Mr Ws case, while he had 
relatively high existing credit, he was earning above the national average and had no 
negative information on his credit file. So, I dont think LiveLend had any reason to suspect 
that Mr Ws circumstances were significantly different to those it understood following the 
credit checks and modelling. 
Mr W separately explains that although he had a joint mortgage, he had been solely meeting 
the repayments as his partner was not working. Again, the rules2 state that where there is a 
reasonable expectation that a consumer will have responsibility to pay only a share or a part 
of a payment towards a contractual or statutory obligation then the business may, in 
1 CONC 5.2A.19
2 CONC 5.2A.18appropriate cases, take this into account. I am satisfied that LiveLend were reasonable in 
apportioning only half of the mortgage repayment costs to Mr W in relation to his joint 
mortgage. 
In light of the above, I am satisfied that LiveLend did necessary and proportionate checks 
before it lent to Mr W, and I am also satisfied that it acted appropriately on the outcome of 
those checks. 
My final decision
I do not think LiveLend acted unfairly or unreasonably when it lent to Mr W and so I do not 
think Mr W lost out as a result of anything LiveLend did wrong. It follows that I do not think 
Chetwood Financial Limited, trading as LiveLend, needs to do anything further
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman