DRN-2690823
The complaint
Mr T and Miss T have complained about the way in which Stephanie Amber Croft (SAC) 
took payment of a mortgage application fee of £500, and that it refunded only part of the fee.
What happened
I will keep the summary of what happened very brief. There are several reasons for this;
the facts of what happened arent in dispute and are set out in detail in the 
correspondence;
because our decisions are published, I have to take care to ensure that nothing in this 
decision could lead to Mr T or Miss T being identified;
much of the evidence doesnt relate to the regulated activities covered by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, so I do not need to consider it or refer to it as it relates to outside 
issues;
SAC has now agreed to settle the complaint, so the only issue I need to determine is 
how the compensation should be paid.
Briefly, in 2019 Mr T and Miss T were applying for a mortgage through SAC. It was SACs 
policy to charge a fee of £500, refundable on completion of the mortgage, where this was not 
covered by the remuneration paid by the lender. Mr T and Miss T said they were never 
provided with terms of business saying they had to pay a £500 fee, but the mortgage offer 
showed SAC would receive more than £500 from the lender. 
Nevertheless, in September 2020 SAC deducted the £500 from Mr T and Miss T by a 
method which they were unhappy about. They complained to SAC, and in November 2020 
complained to this service. The mortgage completed in December 2020. SAC confirmed it 
had received its commission from the lender.
On 31 December 2020 SAC refunded £400 of the £500 fee to Mr T and Miss T. Although 
SAC provided reasons for not paying the full amount, our investigator wasnt persuaded SAC 
had acted fairly or reasonably. She asked SAC to pay £100 compensation. 
Although SAC refused to do so initially, this decision was later reversed and SAC agreed to 
pay the £100. However, SAC said it would not pay this to Mr T and Miss T, only to a charity. 
Mr T and Miss T didnt agree to this so the matter has come to me for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive stated above, I dont need to set out everything thats happened, but I confirm Ive 
taken careful note of all the evidence. Having done so, Im satisfied SAC hasnt treated Mr T 
and Miss T fairly or reasonably. 
SACs terms of business provide for a refund in the circumstances that apply to this 
mortgage application. There is therefore no basis on which it would be fair or reasonable for 
SAC to withhold any part of the payment, or pay it to anyone other than Mr T and Miss T.
Ive taken into account the reasons why SAC thought only £400 was due to be repaid. But 
those reasons do not relate to the provision of a regulated activity and are not directly 
connected with the mortgage application for which the fee was initially charged. This means 
that those reasons form no part of the mortgage application or relate to the advice given by 
SAC about the mortgage. 
Its unfortunate SAC allowed other issues to overlap with its role as a broker providing 
mortgage advice to Mr T and Miss T as clients. I think this resulted in a lapse of judgement 
on SACs part in relation to what was legitimately owed to Mr T and Miss T and caused SAC 
to treat Mr T and Miss T differently from other customers. 
SAC  late in the day  decided to pay the £100 compensation, albeit by way of a payment 
to charity. But it is not up to SAC to decide how compensation should be paid.
Putting things right
To settle this complaint, Stephanie Amber Croft must pay Mr T and Miss T £100 
compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct it to be settled as set out above.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman