DRN-4107298
The complaint
Mrs T and Mr T complain that Al Rayan Bank PLC (Al Rayan) failed to refund monies they 
lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
Mr T was the person principally involved with the scammers and Al Rayan, so Ill mainly refer
to him throughout the complaint.
What Mr T says
Mrs T and Mr T had savings in an account with Al Rayan and were seeking other investment
opportunities.
Mr T subscribed to various online publications and received an article from one of them
(which he later believed wasnt genuine) about investment opportunities. One of them
related to a permanent interest-bearing bond issued by a major high street bank in the UK.
Mr T asked for more information and was later spoken to by a representative of the brokers
who were marketing the bond. Ill refer to this company as B and their representative as M.
Mr T described how M spoke with him at length about the bond and the specifics of how it
worked on the secondary market. The bond was described as having protection under the
financial services compensation scheme (FSCS) and included a buy-back scheme. Mr T
described how the conversation sounded plausible and was later sent correspondence by M
confirming the details discussed and more information about B.
Mr T explained that he then carried out research on the bond and the company (M),
including an article published on another website that referred to the representative hed
spoken with (M) and how B were operating in the UK market with the bonds they were
offering.
Mr T also carried out several checks on B, summarised as:
Confirming their registration with their host countries regulator and cross referencing
their details with the information provided by B in their correspondence (including
registration number and FSCS protection.
Contacting the regulator directly to confirm that B were properly registered.
Checking the details on Bs website and calling them on their advertised number to
confirm that M was their representative.
Confirming the bond was legitimate and being traded.
Checking the clearing agent (referred to here as S) used by B to process the
payments for the bonds and confirming that they were a UK registered company
operating in the financial sector.
Asking a close family member to double check the information.
After carrying out this research Mr T said he was convinced M were legitimate. B provided
details about the bond and the agreement. Mr T arranged to make two payments of £20,000
each to them using his banking app on the Al Rayan account.
Mr T then received a call from Al Rayan about the transactions and answered a series of
questions about the payments. At the conclusion of the call, Al Rayan released both the
payments to S.
Mr T then went on to explain that a few weeks after making the payments, he saw an article
in a newspaper about a scam that sounded similar to Mrs T and Mr Ts own investment. Mr
T checked with the foreign regulator again and found that there was a warning about a
cloned company who were pretending to be B.
Mr T then attempted to contact B on their UK phone number but was unsuccessful as it
appeared it no longer worked. Mr T then contacted Al Rayan about the transactions and
notified Action Fraud about the situation. Mr T was later visited by police officers
investigating the matter.
Mr T sought a refund from Al Rayan, believing that they should have issued better warnings
on their banking app about cloned companies and that Al Rayan processed the payment
based on the information known to Mrs T and Mr T at the time, which was made in good
faith. Al Rayan declined to refund them and Mr T made a complaint to them about the loss.
Mr T also noted that hed used an account with another bank to make a large payment to B
which had already been refunded to him.
What Al Rayan say
Al Rayan first became aware of the payments when Mr T used his banking app to set up the
to transactions. Theyve said they were carrying out additional checks at this time on large
payments leaving their customers accounts to new payees.
Al Rayan contacted Mr T about the payments and discussed why he was making them. A
summary of the conversation is set out below and AR is the Al Rayan employee:
AR tells Mr T that the call is for additional security due to increased scams against
their customers and checks the account details which Mr T confirms are correct.
Mr T confirms that hes aware of the increase in scams.
AR ask if the funds are being sent to an investment company or a person - Mr T
confirms the funds are being sent to B who operate from another country and theyre
for a fixed rate bond.
AR ask how Mr T how he knew of B  Mr T explains that hes a new client/ the bond
is protected by FSCS and its fixed rate with a capital and interest return. He goes on
to say he holds significant funds with (AR) and needs something else. Mr T says
hes more than comfortable with it as its a bond issued by a high street bank.
AR ask how Mr T found out about the payment details  Mr T advised it was by
telephone and hed spoken to Bs banking services the day before in significantdetails about the payments and he adds that theyre (B) are authorised on their
website.
Mr T confirms hes also received emails from B and has verified the beneficiary bank
details from a reputable source.
AR ask Mr T if hes considered if the payments might be fraudulent or might not be
genuine  Mr T tells them he cant see how it couldnt be genuine and that hed gone
through it in great detail.
Mr T confirms he hadnt met any of the investment company face to face or been
pressurised into the payments. He also confirms he hasnt been asked to make the
payments by any official organisation.
Mr T tells AR that the financial division of B told him to make the payment and AR
agree that this makes sense.
Mr T tells AR again about the bond and that B have a base in the UK and their host
country (in Europe). Mr T offers to give AR more details.
AR ask Mr T the purpose of the payments and Mr T confirms its for an investment
bond.
The payments are then processed by Al Rayan.
When Mr T contacted Al Rayan about the scam, they attempted to retrieve the funds from
the beneficiary account but were told that the account no longer had any funds in it. Mr T
complained to Al Rayan who declined to refund the monies lost by Mrs and Mr T, believing
that theyd not made any errors. After Al Rayan turned down their complaint, Mrs and Mr T
brought it to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review where it was
looked into by one of our investigators.
Mr T provided information about the scam including the prospectus for the bonds and
various letters and emails hed received about the investment from the scammers. Mr T
described in detail the checks hed carried out and commented that he thought Al Rayan had
let him and his wife down because theyd not been told about the possibility of a clone firm
being used to scam people. Mr T said this was the first time hed heard of this type of scam
and believed that Al Rayan should have done more, including having better warnings on
their banking app.
Al Rayan sent details of their involvement and statements for the account used by Mr T.
They believed that Mr T was an experienced investor, and the payments were stopped
because of a threshold trigger, rather than any particular suspicious aspect to them. Al
Rayans case was that Mr T was content with the investment and had carried out satisfactory
checks about both B & S. Al Rayan didnt think any other questions would have made any
difference to the outcome based on Mr Ts confidence in his own research. They also
believed that the warning on the banking app was sufficient to give people enough
information about possible fraud before sending the payments.
Checks were carried out with Ss bank who confirmed the account had been closed due to
multiple instances of similar fraud allegations involving B.
After considering all the evidence, the investigator upheld Mr Ts complaint, in summary she
said:Because Al Rayan werent singed up to the Contingent Reimbursement Model
(CRM) code  the specific requirements of it couldnt be applied to this complaint.
It was thought that Al Rayan had considered the payments were unusual  which 
was why they stopped them.
No warning about cloned investment firms were given.
There were red flags in the way the payments were structured  specifically to a
broker at a different bank than where the bonds were issued from.
Al Rayan could have directed Mr T to check Bs contact details from the regulators
site, rather than the website (that was cloned).
A full refund was recommended including simple interest at 8%.
Al Rayan disagreed with the investigators outcome and responded, in summary they said:
The payments werent out of character and were only stopped due to a threshold
trigger.
They believed Mr T was an experienced investor and the use of a third-party account
(S) wasnt unusual.
Their approach to fraud was robust and they asked Mr T appropriate questions. He
was confident in his research and more than comfortable with his answers.
Hed accepted the online warning prior to making the payments.
They believed it was likely that Mr T would have ignored their advice based on his
own research.
There was no mention of the use of cloned firms but they didnt believe this was a
standard question when other questions had been asked.
They believed there was no legal or regulatory requirement to mention cloned firms
and the FCA provided advice about this threat.
They didnt believe that Mrs and Mr T were vulnerable.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Mrs T and Mr Ts complaint on 31 March 
2023. In my provisional findings, I explained why I intended not to uphold their complaint and 
offered both sides the opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in response. An 
extract of that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
I was sorry to hear that Mrs T and Mr T were the victims of a cruel scam and theyve 
suffered such a large loss.
Both parties accept that Mr T authorised the transaction himself, so here, the responsibility, 
in the first instance, lies with Mr T because Al Rayan are required to follow his instructions. 
Al Rayan are expected to process payments and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in 
accordance with the Payment Services Regulations (2017) and the terms and conditions of 
the customers account.
But, even though the CRM code doesnt apply to this complaint, Al Rayan also has an 
obligation to be on the lookout for, and to protect its customers from, potentially falling victim 
to fraud or scams. This includes monitoring accounts and identifying suspicious activity that 
appears unusual and out of character. In situations when potential fraud is identified, I would 
expect Al Rayan to intervene and attempt to prevent the loss.
Here, Al Rayan identified the large transactions to a new payee and called Mr T about the 
payments. The crux of Mrs T and Mr Ts complaint is that Al Rayan could have done more to 
prevent their loss.
So, in determining whether I think they did or didnt do enough to prevent the loss, I have to 
assess the position of both parties and their respective contributions to the payments, 
remembering that the funds were ultimately stolen by scammers. Mr T has been classed as  
an experienced investor during this complaint, and considering the lengths he went to, 
including checking the information about the product he was being sold and the companies 
involved, I can see why thats the case. Im not aware of his investment history, but I dont 
think for the purposes of this complaint he was inexperienced.
I think its fair to say that the research and checks carried out by Mr T were thorough and 
substantial, even cross referring the broker he spoke to (M) with an article posted to a 
different website. Mr T also went directly to the regulator to check that B were a regulated  
company. At the time, the regulator itself was unaware of a cloned company operating, so I 
dont think that further checks with them would have shed any further light on the situation. It 
doesnt appear that the regulators website carries much detail about those businesses it 
regulates apart from some very basic details  which at the time of the scam matched those 
cloned by B.
When Mr T used the banking app to make the two payments, he was faced with a warning 
about scams. Mr T doesnt think it was particularly useful in his situation and Al Rayan 
believe it was suitable and that it pointed out that organisations can be impersonated by 
criminals. Whilst it can be argued that the warning could have been more specific, it wasnt 
the only check carried out by Al Rayan because they prevented the payments from leaving 
the account until theyd spoken with Mr T on the phone.
It's not unreasonable to expect Al Rayan to objectively assess the circumstances of 
payments made from their customers accounts. Here I think they did, gathering information 
from Mr T about the circumstances and raising the possibility that the payments might be 
fraudulent. Mr Ts own assessment was that he couldnt see how it couldnt be genuine and 
had carried out extensive research into the various companies, including checking the 
results with a close family member.It's worth noting here that the scam was set up with a high level of sophistication. Including 
comprehensive paperwork, a website and working phone number. There was also an article 
seeded on another website to increase the legitimacy of the scam. The scam also included 
the use of S as a third-party company to act as an escrow agent (to receive the funds) and 
this had a genuine business registration and commercial bank account.
Its been argued that the appearance of this company (S) should have raised concerns with 
Al Rayan. Considering this company seem to have been specifically set up to receive funds 
from investments, I dont think it was particularly noteworthy here.
I accept that Al Rayan didnt specifically mention cloned companies, but they did ask Mr T 
if the payments might not be genuine. Overall, I think Al Rayan asked relevant questions 
concerning the transactions. But this scam was sophisticated, and I dont think it was 
reasonable to expect them to have identified it, considering the depth of checks already 
carried out by Mr T and his confidence in the arrangement.
Of course, I have sympathy for their loss, but my current thoughts are that Al Rayan couldnt 
have reasonably been expected to identify the payments as a scam. Thats because there 
was no external reporting identifying a cloned company and the many layers that the 
scammers had created made it difficult for anyone to identify it was a scam.
My provisional decision
My current thinking is that I wont be upholding this complaint.
Al Rayan didnt respond, and Mrs T and Mr T supplied further information about the situation 
and their views, in summary they said:
Al Rayan should have done more to prevent the scam, including more in depth 
questioning about the company, their contact and the investment.
Information about cloning should have been discussed which would have provided a 
red flag for the investment.
Mr T isnt an experienced investor.
Theres a disagreement about the reason for the intervention call by Al Rayan.
Mr T believes Al Rayans approach to the fraud was generic and they should have 
provided more detail about scams.
He disagrees that he would have ignored any additional advice given by Al Rayan.
He disagrees with Al Rayans assessment that they werent vulnerable.
Mrs T and Mr T believe they werent grossly negligent.
Mrs T and Mr T believe that a fine issued by the FCA against Al Rayan is relevant to 
their situation.
Mr T believes Al Rayan should have questioned the reason to suddenly withdraw a 
large amount of funds.
Al Rayan should have delayed the payment to allow further checks to be carried out.
They should have questioned the reason for a payment to a third party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the loss of these funds is a great shock to both Mrs T and Mr T. I think its worth 
reiterating here that the theft was orchestrated by a group of criminals who put together a sophisticated scam. There were many layers to the fraud which made it difficult for legitimate 
investors to realise it was set up purely to steal their funds.
The scam was comprehensively created with a false investment company matching the 
genuine one. An article about the company and the representative was seeded on the 
internet to provide a third party reference to anyone who looked adding to the legitimacy of 
the offer. The original information about the investment appeared in an article that Mr T often 
read (although he feels this was also cloned), but again, this only strengthened the idea that 
the company he was dealing with were genuine. 
The use of a foreign (but respectable) investment company that was properly regulated lent 
an air of legitimacy to the investment being offered. The use of a UK address and real 
people made the firm appear to be above board. The product being offered wasnt anything 
out of the ordinary (in investment terms), Mrs T and Mr T werent being offered an unrealistic 
return  which is often a red flag. There didnt appear to be any overt pressure being put on 
Mrs T and Mr T by the scammers to make the transactions quickly. This scam wasnt the 
result of a cold call which is also often a red flag indicating a possible scam. 
There were no obvious flags that I think were missed here. I understand Mrs T and Mr Ts 
point about the specific lack of discussion about cloned firms. But at the time, even if theyd 
looked, there was no information that even the regulator had that would point to this being 
anything other than a legitimate offering. Al Rayan raised the possibility of the firm being 
genuine and Mr T was, at the time, confident they were, based on all the research and 
checks him and his family had carried out. 
I appreciate Mr T will disagree with this conclusion as he makes the point that he would have 
stopped any payments if additional doubts had been raised. But here, I dont think the 
picture that Mr T was describing, and the information given to Al Rayan could reasonably 
have led them to conclude the funds were at risk of a scam.
I understand Mrs T and Mr T now think they were vulnerable through their age, which Al 
Rayan should have taken into account. Age isnt an automatic vulnerability, but I would 
expect Al Rayan to be alive to the issue. Reviewing the evidence, I cant see anything that 
would lead me to think that Al Rayan should have done anything more here, Mr Ts 
interaction with them was as a confident account holder who knew what he wanted ( a better 
return on his money). He told them this and went on to explain (as outlined above) the 
details about the new investment he was making. I think the reasons he gave were entirely 
plausible based on their personal situation  so I dont think that Al Rayan had cause to 
question why he was making the two large payments from the account.
Theres some disagreement about Mr Ts experience as an investor, he argues that Al 
Rayan couldnt have concluded he was one because of his history with them. I can see why 
Al Rayan concluded he was when taking into account their discussions with him at the time. 
Although, for the purposes of this complaint, I dont think its particularly relevant to the 
overall actions of Al Rayan. The conversation they had after preventing the immediate 
release of the funds explored the reasons for making the investment and how Mr T had 
interacted with B. 
I have a different opinion about the third-party account. The presence of another company 
involved in the receipt of the investment wouldnt, in my opinion, stand out as a red flag. In 
this case they were being presented as the escrow account holders and they had a 
commercial bank account held with another UK bank. They also had a legitimate listing with 
the UKs official companies registrar, classed as being a company operating in the financial 
sector. All of which added to their legitimacy and which Mr T checked.Regarding the issue of gross negligence  this isnt relevant to their complaint as its the 
actions of Al Rayan which are being examined in light of the scam. In any event, I dont think 
that Mrs T and Mr Ts conduct could be described as anything other than comprehensive in 
their approach to the investment.
The issue of an FCA fine was brought up which Mrs T and Mr T believe points towards the 
overall conduct of Al Rayan in their actions regarding this complaint. Having looked into it, 
the issue raised was for unrelated activity several years before they opened an account with 
Al Rayan. So here, I dont think its relevant to their complaint.
Mrs T and Mr T believe that Al Rayan should have delayed the payments, but here, after the 
call with Mr T, Al Rayan were satisfied that the payments were to a legitimate investment 
firm. At that point they had no reason to further delay the payments and Mr T was happy for 
them to be released.
Overall, I understand that Mrs T and Mr T will remain unhappy, and no doubt disagree with 
my decision. But, I have to make it based on an objective assessment of the evidence. 
Given the sophisticated nature of the scam and the depth of checks carried out, I dont think 
it was reasonable to expect Al Rayan to identify this as a scam based on the facts at the 
time. I can only instruct Al Rayan to make a refund when I think theyve failed to reasonably 
prevent the loss. But here, I think it wouldnt be fair to instruct them to make a refund based 
on all the evidence Ive considered. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 11July 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman