DRN-4309393
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Lowell Portfolio I Ltd sent him a letter about an account which had 
been written off in an earlier insolvency.
What happened
Lowell took ownership of a number of debts from another business, one of which was this 
credit card account of Mr Ps. They sent Mr P a letter introducing themselves as the new 
owner and setting out how they could help him repay the debt. This included a companion 
letter from the previous owner.
The problem was that this debt had been written off in an insolvency some years prior.
Mr P called Lowell and told them this. Lowell looked into the matter and closed the account. 
They didnt update Mr P.
Mr P came to our service. Lowell apologised, confirmed the account was closed and Mr P 
would not be contacted about it again, and offered a total of £150 compensation.
Our investigator looked into things independently and found the offer to be fair. Mr P said it 
didnt take into account the considerable distress he suffered. The complaints been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can completely understand why it would be distressing to receive a letter about repaying a 
debt which should have been closed in an insolvency years prior.
I should first clarify that in this complaint about Lowell, I can only consider what Lowell are 
responsible for. So for example, theyre not responsible for the original lenders actions in 
failing to close the debt in the first place and selling it on, or for the original insolvency itself 
and all the stress it caused, or for the previous owners customer service issues.
Lowell are responsible for sending a letter, when they should have picked up that this 
account had been written off in an insolvency.  And while I can understand why they might 
have thought that Mr P wouldnt want to hear from them again, they should have let him 
know that theyd resolved the matter. Its also possible that Lowell should have treated this 
as a complaint earlier, though that point is unclear, and as our investigator explained we 
werent really set up to deal with complaints about the handling of complaints.
In terms of putting things right, my first concern is that Mr P wasnt caused any financial 
losses. And Im glad to see that he wasnt  for example, Lowell didnt take any payments 
from his bank, and his credit file wasnt affected.
Next, Ive thought carefully about Mr Ps non-financial losses. He described his distress at 
being reminded of a dark time and his worry when waiting to hear from Lowell. And Im 
grateful to Mr P for being open and candid with us about how this made him feel.
Mr P asked for an apology, and I understand why. The problem is that if I were to tell Lowell 
to apologise, their apology would seem forced rather than genuine  theyd be saying sorry 
because I told them to. Further, I can see that Lowell already apologised in their final 
response and this clearly hasnt repaired their relationship with Mr P. So I dont think another 
apology is likely to help.
Instead, we often tell businesses to pay compensation, to recognise what they got wrong 
and the impact it had. In terms of the amounts, Mr P asked us to make an award which 
educates Lowell about actions having consequences and which doesnt let them off lightly, 
as he put it. Again, I can see his point of view. But its worth bearing in mind that were not 
the regulator  were here to resolve disputes informally. So we dont issue fines or punish 
businesses, and our awards of compensation are there to help put things right rather than to 
teach harsh lessons.
I really do appreciate that Mr P genuinely felt a good deal of distress and upset about this 
matter, and I understand his reasons for requesting a higher compensation award. I need to 
keep in mind that much of Mr Ps stress is rooted in the history behind this account, including 
the nature of going through insolvency, the actions of the original lender, having to raise a 
similar dispute with the previous owner, and some difficult contact between Mr P and the 
previous owner. And as I mentioned before, I cant hold Lowell responsible for that history.
Here, Lowell sent a single gently-worded letter in error. Then they sorted out the underlying 
mistake in a reasonable time, following a single phone call from Mr P. They did not ask for 
any further effort or involvement on his part. They did fail to update him  and that too was a 
mistake, even if I can understand why they mightve thought he wouldnt want to hear from 
them again. Though I also need to keep in mind that Mr P could have mitigated his worry by 
getting in touch with them and asking for an update.
So while I do sympathise with Mr P, and while I understand he found this matter most 
distressing, I dont think Lowell were solely responsible for all his distress. I find that this was 
a one-off incident on Lowells part, which only took a small amount of effort for Mr P to sort 
out. I find that Lowell caused Mr P some real distress and upset, which added to the upset 
hed been caused by other parties previously, which went beyond what one would normally 
expect in day-to-day life, and which would not be remedied by an apology. Taking everything 
into account, including our guidelines for compensation, I find that Lowells offer of £150 total 
compensation is fair to put things right in this case.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I find that Lowell Portfolio I Ltd have made a fair offer to 
resolve this complaint. They should pay Mr P the £150 compensation, if theyve not done so 
already. I do not make any further award.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman