DRN-3037332
The complaint
Miss G complains about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her 
motor insurance claim.
References to AA include its agents.
What happened
In late 2020, Miss G was involved in an accident which resulted in damage to her car. Her 
car was hit by another driver who didnt stop. When she called AA to report the accident, it 
offered to recover her vehicle for her and arrange repairs. Miss G indicated she was 
concerned that the excess of £350 might be more than it would cost her to pay for her car to 
be repaired. She decided to drive her car home herself and told the AA she would phone 
back once shed had the chance to look at the damage in daylight. 
Miss G called the AA the next day to arrange for the repairs and a courtesy car. It told     
Miss G that she would be contacted by the garage, but this didnt happen. When Miss G 
phoned again the following day, she was told a new garage would be instructed but the 
instruction was sent to the first garage again in error. It took several more days before     
Miss Gs car was taken to a garage. Miss G was left without a courtesy car and had to pay 
for taxis to get around as her car was undriveable. 
After the repairs were carried out, Miss G raised concerns about their quality and the safety 
of driving the car. The car was returned to the garage twice more to rectify the issues, but 
Miss G remained dissatisfied. She found that there were still some issues with the car. 
AA agreed to pay for an independent engineer to inspect the vehicle. This was carried out at 
a manufacturers dealership in early March, which was around ten weeks after the accident. 
The engineer suggested a wheel alignment, which AA also agreed to pay for. 
Miss G complained to AA about the quality of repairs, delay and various customer service 
concerns. AA acknowledged there were issues with the customer service it had provided, 
and the repairer hadnt completed the works to an acceptable standard. It paid Miss G £554 
for travel costs and a further £200 to compensate her for the impact of these issues.
 
Miss G remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into her concerns and didnt think AA had done enough to put things right. He 
recommended it pay Miss G £200 in addition to the compensation it had already paid. 
Miss G indicated that she was willing to accept our investigators recommendation in 
resolution of her complaint. But she commented that she didnt feel that £400 was enough to 
compensate her for her time and the stress she was caused.
AA disagreed with our investigators view. It didnt think it was fair and reasonable to be 
asked to pay another £200 on top of what it had already paid. It said our investigator had 
failed to recognise that its payments for travel costs and the independent inspection were 
paid as goodwill. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Gs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Miss G has raised various concerns about AAs handling of her claim. Id like to reassure 
Miss G Ive considered all of her points, even if I havent addressed each of them 
individually. Ive focussed on whats most relevant to the outcome of her complaint.
The policy terms and conditions say:
In the event you need to make a claim on your policy your AA motor insurer may instruct an 
insurer-approved repairer to carry out the repairs. In most cases, if they do instruct repairs to 
start, a standard courtesy car will be supplied during the period of repairs.
AA has acknowledged that there were issues with both the quality of repairs and the 
customer service Miss G received. Its paid for the repairs and engineers report and its 
reimbursed Miss G for her travel costs. So, what Ive needed to think about is whether the 
£200 AA paid Miss G is enough to compensate her for the trouble and upset shes 
experienced. 
AA has commented that the payments it made for travel costs and the independent 
inspection of her car were paid as goodwill. It says the car had been repaired to a 
satisfactory standard, but Miss G had no confidence in the repairs or repairer and believed 
the car to be unsafe, and as a result was using taxis. But AA has also acknowledged that the 
initial repairs werent completed to a satisfactory standard. And from what Ive seen and 
been told, the car needed to be returned to AAs authorised repairers twice.
 
I dont find it surprising that Miss G was concerned about the safety of driving the car when 
she continued to experience issues with it. Miss G says she was caring for elderly parents 
and needed to attend to them twice a day. Shes also told us she was living in a semi-rural 
area, so was unable to take public transport. So, I think its fair for AA to have reimbursed 
Miss G for the travel costs she incurred as a result of not having use of her car.
From what Ive seen, AAs approved repairers didnt identify what was causing the issues 
with Miss Gs vehicle after it had carried out repairs. So, I think it was necessary for the car 
to be reviewed by an independent engineer. And I think it was fair for AA to pay for this. The 
independent engineer confirmed there was a problem with the vehicle (which was pulling to 
the left) and recommended a wheel alignment be carried out. Miss G says she wasnt 
experiencing problems with the car before the accident. So, I also think it was fair for AA to 
have paid for the car to be put back to its pre-accident condition.
AA has admitted that it was responsible for delays in getting the car repaired and in 
providing Miss G with a courtesy car. Its also acknowledged that the repairs werent 
completed to a satisfactory standard by its approved repairers. I can see Miss G spent a lot 
of time getting in touch with AA over the phone and by email. 
Miss G has commented that the total of £400 our investigator recommended for trouble and 
upset wouldnt compensate her for the time she lost. I appreciate Miss Gs feelings about 
this, but our service wouldnt normally consider a consumers professional hourly rate for a 
complaint brought in their personal capacity. Instead wed look at the overall frustration, 
inconvenience and distress theyd experienced.AA has paid Miss G £200 on top of what it paid to compensate her for financial loss. But I 
dont think this is enough. She was put to a lot of inconvenience due to the issues with 
communication and delays. She needed to contact AA repeatedly to try to get things 
resolved, which was no doubt very frustrating. It was a particularly distressing and worrying 
time for Miss G as one of her parents was seriously ill and she also needed to care for her 
other parent. Having considered the comments from both sides, I think it would be fair for AA 
to pay Miss G a further £200 to compensate her for the trouble and upset shes experienced.
Putting things right
AA should pay Miss G £200 in addition to what its already paid her.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Gs complaint and direct AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman