DRN-4368324
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs A complain Plum Underwriting Limited mis-sold their home insurance policy as 
it didnt provide the service they expected under the legal helpline.
What happened
In around February 2022 Mr A and Mrs A took out insurance through Plum Underwriting 
Limited to cover them whilst living overseas. Plum arranged cover with an insurer Ill call 
Insurer A. The policy included legal expenses insurance (LEI) and access to a legal helpline. 
The LEI cover and helpline were provided by a separate insurer. Ill call them Insurer B. And 
where I refer to Insurer B, that will include their claims handlers.
Mr A contacted the legal helpline twice for advice about legal issues that had arisen in the 
country where he and Mrs A were living. Each time he was told, broadly, assistance could 
only be given in relation to UK matters. 
Mr A thought Plum had mis-sold the policy on grounds the helpline didnt provide the service 
he and Mrs A understood it would. He noted the legal helpline was available for any private 
legal problem of concern to You or Your Family which arises anywhere in the world. Mr A 
and Mrs A said the description of the helpline was misleading since they didnt get the advice 
they needed. Without the legal advice they were expecting, theyd had to concede the first 
dispute. And, at the time of complaining, the second issue on which they required advice had 
become urgent. They complained to Plum. 
Plum explained, broadly, that whilst theyd arranged the insurance for Mr A and Mrs A, 
Insurer A fixed the policy wording and chose the LEI insurers and claims handlers. Plum 
couldnt influence either. In any event, the policy had been suitable for Mr A and Mrs As 
needs as it did provide help with overseas legal issues. And they said Mr A and Mrs As real 
complaint was about the service theyd received when theyd contacted the helpline. 
Mr A and Mrs A were unhappy with Plums response and brought their complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. 
She said, in summary, the legal helpline provided the sort of service wed expect it to. 
Mr A felt our investigator hadnt addressed their concerns. Since Mr A and Mrs A didnt 
accept our investigators view, their complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr As strength of feeling about the complaint and Im grateful for all the information he 
and Plum have provided. I wont mention everything theyve said here. No discourtesy is 
intended by that. It simply reflects the informal nature of the service we provide. Ill focus on 
what I consider key in coming to my decision. 
Mr A and Mrs A havent complained about the overall suitability of the insurance policy they 
took out or said they wouldnt have taken the policy out at all if theyd understood the service 
the legal helpline would provide. But they feel the way in which the service provided by the 
legal helpline was described was misleading. And they say the policy was mis-sold because 
of that. 
Ive noted Plums comments that they werent in a position to influence the policy wording. 
But they needed to make sure, in line with Financial Conduct Authority rules, that any 
information they gave Mr A and Mrs A was appropriate - so they could make an informed 
decision about the insurance they were buying  and that it was clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
The service the legal helpline provided was set out in the policy schedule and policy 
wording. Mr A and Mrs A have highlighted this themselves, so Im satisfied theyve seen and 
understood this.
The schedule said:
Your Legal Helpline is administered by [Insurer B] and serviced on their behalf by 
[firm of solicitors]. 
The Legal Helpline will be able to help you on any private legal problem that has 
happened. 
This service is limited to legal advice given on the telephone and then confirmed in 
writing on request.
The policy wording said:
Legal Helpline
Use the 24 hour advisory service for telephone advice on any private legal problem 
of concern to You or Your Family which arises anywhere in the world.
Specialist lawyers are at hand to help You. If You need a lawyer  to act for You 
and Your problem is covered under this insurance, the helpline will ask You to 
complete a claim form. If Your problem is not covered under this insurance, the 
helpline may also be able to offer You assistance under a private funding 
arrangement.
Insurer B explained the helpline process in response to Mr A and Mrs As complaint about 
the service theyd received. They said where advice from the legal helpline about 
jurisdictions outside the UK is requested, the process should be that the customer calls the 
helpline, the helpline advises Insurer B of the requirement and Insurer B arranges for a 
suitably qualified legal representative to contact the customer to provide the advice.
Mr A and Mrs A feel the issues they sought advice on through the helpline were never 
addressed in that way. But Insurer Bs explanation is in line with Mr A and Mrs As 
understanding that the helpline would provide them with advice about legal issues that arose 
worldwide. To that extent, the policy provided the service they were expecting, even if they 
didnt get that service in practice.
From what I understand, Mr A and Mrs A were also unhappy with the explanation Insurer B 
provided about the extent of support available through the helpline. Insurer B said the 
helpline service was to provide generic legal advice on worldwide matters. If formal advice 
was needed, a claim had to be made under the policy; an assessment of whether the policy 
provided cover would then be carried out; if it did, and the policy terms and conditions were met, solicitors would then be appointed to carry out a legal assessment of the claim.
I dont think the policy schedule or policy wording is clear about that. They do refer to limited 
legal advice and the need to make a claim if the policyholder needs a lawyer to act for 
them. But the extent of support available isnt set out in terms I consider to be clear, fair and 
not misleading as they ought to. I think Mr A and Mrs A could reasonably have understood 
theyd get access to more than general advice about the legal issues theyd attempted to 
discuss. And Im not aware Plum explained how it worked in any other documents it gave to 
Mr A and Mrs A when they took the policy out.
That said, the service the legal helpline provided is in line with what Ive seen elsewhere 
from other providers. Access to legal helplines is commonly found in LEI policies as an   
add-on to the main LEI cover. They are designed to give the policyholder quick access to 
general legal advice from a firm of solicitors who is on the LEI insurers panel.  If the solicitor 
considers the policyholder needs more formal legal advice, they usually refer the 
policyholder to make a claim under the policy. That generally happens where more detailed 
advice is needed and would be better addressed by a lawyer with appropriate skill and 
expertise. 
Im not aware of any evidence that Mr A and Mrs A would have decided to buy insurance 
elsewhere, or would have been able to, if theyd understood the position. They had specific 
insurance needs given Mrs As occupation and the fact they were living abroad. And since 
other insurers are likely to have offered a similar helpline service, I think its unlikely they 
would have found more suitable cover elsewhere, or that limitations within this cover would 
have led them to look for an alternative policy or changed their decision to take this policy 
out.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr A and Mrs As frustration and appreciate 
they will be disappointed, I dont uphold their complaint the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman