DRN-3277996
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs L are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around February 2018, Mr and Mrs L were contacted by a representative of a company 
Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs L decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In October 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Ls behalf under 
section 75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs L to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding from the beginning; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayments costs.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs L or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld. However it offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs L and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the salesman had told Mr and Mrs L that the system would be self-funding within two 
to three years of installation (I note that this is a change from its original position);
the salesman had never shown Mr and Mrs L the sales documentation on which the 
adjudicator had relied (the contract  mis-described as the quotation, a separate 
document);
although the contract purports to be signed by Mr L, he denies it is his signature;
copies of the contract and the quotation had never been sent to Mr and Mrs L to read 
in their own time;
being satisfied with what they had been told in the sales meeting, Mr and Mrs L had 
not thought it necessary to ask for a copy of the contract or the quotation afterwards;
other customers have reported similar sales tactics, so Mr and Mrs Ls claims were 
credible;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr and Mrs L paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs L could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs L and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and the contract (which has been described by the 
adjudicator and by the CMC as the quotation, although that name actually refers to another 
document which I have not seen, but which contains much of the same information). Ive 
considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made by P.
The contract is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system in a 
section called Getting Started, including photos of Mr and Mrs Ls home and where the 
system is to be installed. It goes on to set out the expected performance, financial benefits 
and technical information. Im satisfied that the contract contains enough information for me 
to fairly resolve this case, without needing to ask for the quotation as well.
The CMC continues to question whether this document formed a central part of the sales 
process with P when Mr and Mrs L agreed to purchase the system. I have carefully 
considered the points made by the representative along with those made by Shawbrook on 
behalf of P. But I dont think its likely or plausible that Mr and Mrs L simply took the 
salesmans word for it when he told them that they could buy thousands of pounds worth of 
equipment  paid for with an interest-bearing loan  without it costing them a penny, without 
at any point asking to see something to that effect in writing. Its more likely that Mr and Mrs L have simply forgotten seeing the contract over the six years between the sale and the 
bringing of their claim. So on the balance of probabilities, I am satisfied that the contract did 
form a central part of the sales process, and that Mr L did sign it.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
FIT payments
The CMC originally alleged that Mr and Mrs L were told their monthly loan repayments would 
be covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments, from the start of the loan period. The CMC 
appears to have withdrawn that allegation in its response to the adjudicators opinion, and is 
now only saying that the salesman said that the system would pay for itself after two to three 
years instead. So I have not considered that point again here. However, I have read what 
the adjudicator said, and I can see that she has followed our usual approach in these cases, 
and so I am satisfied that the CMC will not have been misled into conceding this point by 
anything she wrote about it.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs L that the system would be self-funding  
whether immediately after installation, or at some later time.
I think the contract clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs L could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments.
In particular, it sets out the cash price of the system, £8,557.50.
On the next page, it gives the estimated total FIT income and savings from the system in the 
first year, £289.36. Mr Ls signature is immediately below that, so Im satisfied that this part 
of the contract was brought to his attention at the point of sale.
The interest on the loan does not appear in this section, and so I think that Mr and Mrs L 
could be forgiven for overlooking it. However, it did make it clear that the system was going 
to be paid for on finance, and one tenth of the amount borrowed would clearly come to 
£855.70 each year. That is nearly three times the stated benefit figure for the first year. 
Again, I think this is clear.
Primarily for this reason, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr and Mrs L about the 
benefits and cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during 
the term of the loan.
The contract has another section headed Repayments with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 
months as this is the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs L entered into with Shawbrook. (This 
section has not been signed in its own signature box, so I give it less weight than the signed 
section, but I still think it is probative.)
This table shows the loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £103.37. (This is 
incorrect; the loan agreement gives the correct monthly figure of £103.32, but the difference 
 5p  is too small to affect the following observations.) For each year of the ten year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between 
the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives 
a negative figure for every year of the ten year loan  meaning that the FIT income and 
savings from the system would never be enough to cover the monthly loan repayments.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the 5p discrepancy 
in the monthly payments).
Im of the view that this makes it quite clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the 
start, or within two or three years, or even in ten years. I think the quote is clear that there 
would be a difference between the expected income and monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr and Mrs L were told by P that the system would be self-funding 
over a period of time.
A later page of the contract has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system 
over 25 years. This shows that by the end of year 14 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs L 
could expect to receive would have exceeded the cash price of the system (£8,557), and by 
the end of year 18 the total benefits would be enough to cover the total amount payable 
under the loan agreement (£12,398).
So Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs L that the system would pay for its cash price in 12 
years, and for the loan in about 18 years, as supported by table above. If that were an untrue 
statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, 
and they subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation. I will 
consider that question next.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs L. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 1,596 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr and Mrs Ls FIT statements and can see that their system, on average, 
has generated 1,921 kWh a year. This is significantly more than estimated by P at the point 
of sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. 
The contract does not show the period which was considered, but I know from other cases 
that P typically considered a 12-year period ending around 2015 or 2016. I have looked at 
the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020, and the increases have been lower 
than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think this explains why Mr and Mrs L havent 
been receiving the financial returns they may have been expecting from the solar panels. 
Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings 
achieved through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs L could 
have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may 
not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due 
to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs L entered into the 
contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs L 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mr and Mrs L to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 
compensation for its delay in responding to their complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman