DRN-2244433
The complaint
Mrs R complains, through a claims management company (CMC) that she was given 
unsuitable investment advice by Lloyds Bank plc.
What happened
In March 2009 Mrs R was advised to invest £7,200 in an ISA with a further £2,800 to be 
invested a month later after the start of the new financial year. She was advised to invest in 
the Capital Protected fund. Its aim was to provide 150% of any increase in the FTSE index 
with averaging over the last 12 months.
Mrs R made various withdrawals between December 2009 and December 2011 before 
finally surrendering her investment in January 2015. She got back a total of £10,500 
including the withdrawals.
The CMC complained in 2019 on the basis that Mrs R shouldnt have been advised to invest 
in just one fund that exposed her to one asset class  equities. It said she shouldve been 
advised to invest in a mix of low-cost funds. It said redress should be calculated by 
comparing the investment with a benchmark  the FTSE Private Investors Balanced index.
Lloyds upheld the complaint on the basis that Mrs R shouldnt have been advised to invest 
anything because of her circumstances at the time. It calculated redress based on a 
comparison between the ISA and a different benchmark, the average rate from Bank of 
England fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint in which I made the following key findings:
There was no reasonable basis for Lloyds finding that Mrs R shouldnt have been 
advised to invest at all when the adviser saw her.
I think Lloyds has based its decision on what happened after the investment had 
been made - in particular, the fact that her husband didnt return to work as expected 
and Mrs R starting to take withdrawals.
There was nothing in the fact find that indicated the investment was unaffordable and 
that she would need additional income or had known expenses in the immediate 
future.
Mrs R had a good income even working part-time and had a surplus of £500 each 
month without her husband returning to work and her ability to invest wasnt 
dependent on his return.
I wasnt satisfied that the Capital Protected fund was a suitable recommendation.
Mrs R had no previous experience of investing and putting so much of her available 
capital in an investment that was wholly dependent on the performance of the FTSE 
100 was unsuitable.
Mrs R is very unlikely to have had an understanding of how equity markets worked 
and the real risk of her getting nothing back on her investment.
Equities are not low risk investments and although she wasnt investing directly in 
equities the performance of her investment was still subject to the volatility 
associated with such investment.
The illustrations Mrs R was provided referred to smooth growth of 4% on her 
investment which I think is likely to have been misleading to someone who had never 
invested in equities before.
Although I think the advice was unsuitable, I still need to decide what Mrs R wouldve 
invested in if given suitable advice.
In the fact find it was recorded that; she wanted capital security; she strongly agreed 
with the statement that keeping her money intact was more important the impact of 
inflation on it; strongly disagreed with the statement that she was concerned about 
the impact of inflation on her money over the medium to long term and was prepared 
to take a risk to compensate for this; strongly disagreed with the statement that she 
wanted the best long-term growth even if this meant significant ups and downs in its 
value.
Mrs R was assessed as being overall a cautious investor but information in the fact 
find indicated she wasnt willing to risk losing her capital.
Im not satisfied a fixed rate-bond was a suitable alternative as I wasnt satisfied Mrs 
R wouldve wanted no access at all to her money.
In the circumstances I think redress needs to be calculated by reference to our usual 
no-risk benchmark 
The CMC said it had nothing further to add. Lloyds initially responded and said that the 
complaint had been compromised before referral to our service as it had made an offer to 
Mrs R that had been accepted. 
I responded to Lloyds and said that it had provided two separate responses to the complaint, 
one for the initial advice to invest £7,200 and a separate one for the advice to invest a further 
£2,800. I said Mrs R had only accepted the offer made in full and final settlement in respect 
of the £2,800 invested so could still complain about the advice to invest £7,200.
Lloyds said that it had found the advice to invest unsuitable based on the fact find and on 
what Mrs R had said when it discussed the complaint with her on 20 September 2019.
Lloyds said it decided Mrs R shouldnt have been advised to invest at the time because; it 
was a joint fact find; Mrs Rs husband wasnt available for work although was intending to 
start looking for work; Mrs R confirmed he had been on long-term sick since 2002/2003; she 
had decided to work part-time to look after him.
Lloyds said in the circumstances Mrs R, as a first-time investor, wouldve been better waiting 
until after her husband returned to work before investing over 50% of her investable assets. 
As he didnt return to work hindsight shows she needed access to the money only eight 
months later. It said it hadnt based its final decision on what happened after the sale but on 
the evidence at the point of sale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the evidence - including listening to the call on 20 September -2019 - and 
the points made by Lloyds in response to my provisional decision I still think the complaint 
should be upheld on the basis Mrs R would still have invested when she did if given suitable 
advice.
I have considered what Lloyds has said in response to my provisional decision. For 
completeness I repeat what I have already said to Lloyds about the complaint being settled before referral to us. It sent two separate letters about the investment in the ISA. The first 
was in relation to the initial investment of £7,200. The letter identified that it was a review of 
advice received when Mrs R invested in the Capital Protected ISA Fund 10  the investment 
of £7,200. Lloyds said that the advice wasnt appropriate but that no loss had been suffered 
and included its calculation.
The second letter referred to review of advice received when Mrs R invested in the Capital 
Protected ISA Fund 11. This again said that advice wasnt appropriate but that it had 
calculated Mrs R had suffered a loss. It offered her £411 in full and final settlement which 
she accepted. In the circumstances her complaint about the further investment of £2,800 has 
already been resolved. But the letter and acceptance form only referred to Fund 11 not 
Fund 10 so I still need to make findings on the initial investment of £7,200.
I am not persuaded that I need to change the findings I made in my provisional decision 
about the advice to invest. I still think that there was no reason the adviser shouldnt have 
provided advice to Mrs R when he did. I dont agree that the information in the fact find 
means the adviser shouldve delayed his advice until her husband had returned to work. 
I also dont think that what Mrs R said to Lloyds in the telephone call of 20 September 2019 
suggests that the adviser was wrong to give advice. I acknowledge that Mrs R said that she 
started talking withdrawals from the investment because her husband didnt return to work. 
But the adviser could only base his advice on the information he was given, as shown in the 
fact find. This didnt suggest that Mrs Rs ability to invest was based on her husband 
returning to work.
As I pointed out in my provisional decision, the fact find shows that Mrs R had surplus 
income of around £500 each month even if her husband didnt return to work. And there was 
nothing to suggest she would need to access the money she was investing if he failed to 
return to work. 
Put another way Lloyds argument amounts to saying that Mrs R could only be advised to 
invest if her husband returned to work  so, if he had never returned to work, she wouldnt 
have been advised to invest at all. I dont think that this is supported by the information in the 
fact find.
So, I still think that the adviser was right to provide advice to Mrs R but that she shouldve 
been advised to invest in no-risk investments and redress should be based on comparison 
with our usual no-risk benchmark, being the average rate from fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity. This is the benchmark Lloyds used in its redress calculation when it upheld 
the complaint and calculated no loss had been suffered 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint but make no award for the reasons I have explained above and in my 
provisional decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman