DRN-3026033
The complaint
Ms C, on behalf of R, has complained about Allianz Insurance Plcs handling of the claim 
made on Rs retail insurance policy following an interruption to Rs business in relation to the 
COVID-19 pandemic. Ms C is unhappy that the settlement of the claim has been limited and 
Allianz gave her misleading information during the course of the claim.
What happened
R operates as a hair salon and held a retail insurance policy underwritten by Allianz. In the 
week prior to 23 March 2020, one of Rs employees had been working in the salon but 
reported symptoms of COVID-19, that she was experiencing, to NHS 111 - who told her to 
self-isolate on 22 March. 
This employee was later hospitalised and diagnosed with COVID-19. It is not disputed that 
the employee was suffering from this condition nor that she was on Rs premises at a point 
in time when she had sustained this illness.
R did not open its premises on 23 March 2020. Ms C took this decision apparently so that 
she could self-isolate herself, and so the premises could be cleaned. She informed Allianz of 
this, commencing a claim for the loss of Rs income.
Later on 23 March 2020, the Government announced that restrictions already in place would 
be extended to all non-essential shops and premises. Businesses, such as hairdressers, 
were asked not to open from close of trade 23 March 2020. On 26 March, the Health 
Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 were made formalising 
this guidance as a legal requirement. I shall refer to these requirements, including those 
following the announcement, as the Regulations. R remained closed until July 2020.
R's claim was considered under the terms of the policy it held. The most relevant term in this 
policy, which is Extension 1 to Section 2 (Business Interruption), says:
The liability of the Insurer includes loss as insured by this Section resulting from 
interruption or interference with the Business in consequence of
1 PREMISES CLOSURE OR RESTRICTIONS
a closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a Notifiable 
Human Disease occurring at the Premises
b injury or illness sustained by any person caused by or traceable to foreign or 
injurious matter in food or drink sold from the Premises by the Insured
c vermin and pests at the Premises
d closure of the whole or part of the Premises by order of the Public Authority 
consequent upon defects in the drains and other sanitation at the Premises
e murder or suicide occurring at the Premises 
subject to a maximum of £50,000 for any one loss
The Insurer shall not be liable under this extension for costs incurred in cleaning 
repair replacement recall or checking of property
The capitalised terms Insurer, Business, Premises, and Notifiable Human Disease are 
all defined within this policy. Allianz has not disputed that the term Notifiable Human Disease 
would include COVID-19. And the interpretation of the rest of these defined terms is not in 
dispute either.
The terms Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority and Public Authority are not 
defined within the policy though. And Allianz has said that these do not relate to the 
circumstances of Rs claim. I will discuss this in detail below.
I have referred in this decision to the above term as Extension 1. And subclause a of this 
term as Rs disease clause.
I have referred to terms of this nature, i.e. those that provide cover for business interruption 
in relation to the occurrence of a disease at or on the premises, as at the premises clauses. 
Similarly, those terms that require the occurrence of the disease within a particular radius of 
the insured premises have been referred to as radius clauses. The relevant radius differs 
between policies. In the FCA test case, the Supreme Court considered terms relating to 
1-mile and 25-mile radii. But other policies on the market differ, providing cover in relation to 
10-mile, 5-mile, etc. radii. As has been brought to my attention since my provisional decision, 
some policies include radius clauses that apply to areas as small as a 250-metre radius.
The test case, the High Court judgment, and the Supreme Court judgment refer, as 
appropriate, to the case of The Financial Conduct Authority & Ors v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd 
& Ors [2021] UKSC 1 and the related judgment in the court at first instance.
Having initially indicated to Ms C that it would meet Rs claim for the extent of lockdown (up 
to the policy limits), Allianz then took the decision only to meet Rs losses in relation to the 
first few days it was closed  a period Allianz considered would have been required to 
appropriately clean the premises.
Allianz accepted that there had been an occurrence of COVID-19 on Rs premises, but did 
not consider the national lockdown to be a consequence of that occurrence.
Ms C was unhappy with this and complained on behalf of R. Remaining unhappy with 
Allianzs offer of £500 for providing misleading information, Ms C referred Rs complaint to 
this service.
Since bringing the complaint, R took out a £10,000 loan via the bounce back loan scheme. 
Ms C has said that the reason this loan was taken was because the claim was declined. For 
the first 12 months of the loan, no interest has been payable on this borrowing. I understand 
interest is now payable at a rate of 2.5%. Ms C has also estimated Rs losses for the period 
of March to July 2020 as being around £27,500. But full details of Rs losses have not been 
provided to either Allianz or this service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint should be upheld. Allianz did not agree with this, 
and this complaint was passed to me for a decision. On 16 July 2021, I issued a provisional 
decision explaining why I felt the complaint should be upheld. Allianz has responded to this, 
maintaining its position. 
I will set out below Allianzs arguments, then the investigators opinion and my provisional 
decision. Allianzs position
Ive summarised Allianzs position below. This is an amalgamation of the comments made 
both prior to and subsequent to the investigators opinion. Whilst I have listed what I consider 
to be the key points, I have considered the sum of their submissions.
Prior to my provisional decision, Allianz had said:
The FCA did not ask the Court to adjudicate upon any at the premises clauses in the 
test case, and Allianz considers these clauses to provide a very different sort of cover 
to that provided by radius clauses. It is necessary to ask objectively what is the 
intended effect of an at the premise clause. It does not follow that an at the premises 
clause should be interpreted in the same way as a radius clause.
Extension 1 is only concerned with business interruption brought about by particular 
insured contingencies occurring at the premises (or in the case of food and drink, 
items sold from the premises) and not elsewhere. The covers are all localised and 
premises-specific.
Many of the policies considered by the Court which included radius clauses also 
included at the premises subclauses. The Supreme Court commented that the 
language of the at the premises clause in the policy it was considering was not 
reasonably capable of meaning it provided; cover for all the business interruption 
consequences of a Notifiable Disease, wherever in the country or the world it occurs, 
provided that (and from the time when) there is at least one case of the disease at 
the premises. And so, Allianz considers these terms would not cover losses brought 
about by national lockdowns or the wider pandemic. Allianz argued that there is no 
logical distinction to be drawn between whether at the premises cover appears in a 
stand-alone clause or sits next to or within a radius clause.
Rs disease clause is not designed to cover the business interruption consequences 
of that same disease being present at other persons premises, or across a region or 
the whole country. If there is a disease outbreak at a policyholders premises and the 
relevant local authority officer closes the premises or places restrictions on them 
because of it, then the policyholder will be covered for the loss of revenue it suffers 
as a consequence, irrespective of whether or not others outside the premises are 
also experiencing cases of the same disease.
Treating Rs disease clause as only covering the business interruption consequences 
of being closed down by the relevant officer within a local authority because of the 
occurrence of disease at the policyholders premises (rather than because of a 
national lockdown affecting the country) does not produce irrational or arbitrary 
results. It is not correct to determine this by looking at how the pandemic has evolved 
with hindsight. At the time the policy was taken out, nobody would have 
contemplated the Government putting the country into national lockdown. But they 
might have appreciated that an outbreak of certain diseases at the policyholders 
premises might well lead to a local authority closing down the premises temporarily 
or imposing restrictions on the use of those premises. The fact that a notifiable 
disease might spread over wide areas does not mean that the cover under Rs 
disease clause becomes meaningless.
Depriving R of cover for national lockdown related losses does not lead to an 
uncommercial result or to illusory cover. Cover is still available where a case or 
cases of COVID-19 at the premises causes a competent authority to place 
restrictions on the Insureds use of its premises regardless of the number of cases of disease outside the premises. The incidence of COVID-19 at a pub outside of a 
lockdown period caused the local authority to shut down the pub. 
At the premises clauses are very different to radius clauses. The losses which are 
suffered by the policyholder as a result of people having a disease at the premises 
are direct, immediate and identifiable losses (whereas radius clauses cover indirect 
losses suffered as a result of an authoritys response to a wider outbreak of disease 
which is remote from the Insureds premises). There is a clear distinction between 
the causative effect of cases of COVID-19 at the premises and cases elsewhere. 
The Supreme Court also indicated that it might be appropriate to conclude that radius 
clauses only offer cover where the causal potency of all the cases within the radius 
are of similar causal potency to all those outside the radius. But this could only be the 
case where it was possible to apportion the financial loss between the two  and this 
is not possible in relation to radius clauses. However, Allianz considers this is 
possible in relation to at the premises clauses where there are direct, immediate and 
identifiable losses  such as closing premises for a quantifiable period in order to 
clean them. Such losses are unaffected by cases of COVID-19 outside the premises. 
The losses in relation to at the premises clauses are divisible and the terms are 
capable of having a weighted approach applied to them. Allianz therefore thinks that 
a traditional causation analysis should therefore apply.
Once COVID-19 is no longer at the premises, and any staff who may have caught 
the disease have ceased having to self-isolate, the Insureds business cannot 
continue to be affected by the insured peril and the indemnity period comes to an 
end. The disease will have made a fleeting appearance at the premises and then 
have disappeared and no longer be affecting the business or influencing the 
Governments approach to continued lockdown. It cannot be said that the momentary 
presence of disease at the premises is of roughly equal causative effect in bringing 
about the national lockdown as each individual with disease permanently residing in 
the wider area at the time the Government makes its decision to lock down the 
country.
The key to interpreting disease at the premises clauses is that it is the at the 
premises aspect of the disease which must be the proximate cause of the Insureds 
losses. That leads to the conclusion that these clauses provide cover only where the 
disease is present at the premises and only for such period of time as the Insureds 
business is affected by the disease being present at its premises and not elsewhere. 
Allianz referred to a case heard in the Irish courts, Brushfield Ltd (t/a The Clarence 
Hotel) v Arachas Corporate Brokers and another [2021] IEHC 263 (Brushfield). And 
said that the comments in this case about how a term relating to cover in the event of 
a defect in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at the premises, show that such 
wording should be interpreted as providing very narrow, localised cover, and do not 
respond to restrictions imposed because of wider disease outbreaks beyond the 
premises.
Allianz also said that the occurrence of the disease at Rs premises could not be said 
to be an equally effective cause of the national lockdown. They said the Government 
did not have access to data in relation to specific premises and could only have relied 
on data from local authorities or similarly wide regions. And that the occurrence on 
Rs premises was only transitory and was not present on the premises at the point 
the Government made its decision. 
Allianz went onto say that Rs premises had already been closed at the point the 
lockdown measures were introduced. And so these measures cannot be said to have 
caused R to close its premises.Allianz didnt think it had been shown the actions taken were on the advice of the 
Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority. Allianz said the Chief Medical 
Officer is not the Medical Officer of Public Health for the Public Authority. And the use 
of Public Authority in the policy should be interpreted as referring to a local authority 
rather than national government.
Lastly, in terms of the liability for Rs losses, Allianz said that even if the policy did 
provide cover for the circumstances of the lockdown, this could only last until the first 
point the need for the Regulations was reviewed (16 April 2020). At that point, there 
was no occurrence of the disease on Rs premises and there had not been for some 
weeks. So, it could not be said that this historic occurrence was an equal cause of 
the Regulations continuing beyond this point.
Finally, Allianz said that it was not reasonable for interest to be added to any 
settlement due to R, as Allianz had relied on FCA guidance in terms of what the FCA 
test case would consider  and that this did not include at the premises clauses. 
Investigators opinion 
In summary, the investigator said:
COVID-19 was a disease, the consequences of which the policy provided cover for  
provided the other elements of the clause above were satisfied.
There had been an occurrence of COVID-19 on the premises. This is not in dispute 
and it is not necessary to set out the detail here. But, as above, an employee of R 
had been on the premises and was then hospitalised with a diagnosis of COVID-19.
The term Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority was likely to mean 
someone with the authority to require businesses to close or restrict their activities for 
public health or similar reasons. And the Regulations were made following advice or 
with the approval of such a person.
The Supreme Court considered radius clauses. The Supreme Court decided that 
each case of disease was a separate occurrence and radius clauses only covered 
the effect of cases of COVID-19 within the area specified in the policy.
The Supreme Court also considered clauses requiring further elements as well as the 
occurrence of disease, such as requiring closure or restrictions introduced following 
the occurrence. The investigator felt the cover in Rs disease clause was for the 
closure or restrictions placed on the premises on the advice of or with the approval of 
the relevant authority as a result of a case of COVID-19 on the premises. It is not 
cover for COVID-19 as a whole.
The Supreme Court decided that the insured peril under these clauses is not the 
notifiable disease itself. Instead, the clauses were providing cover for the 
consequences of particular events occurring at a particular time and place. The 
Supreme Court decided that all individual cases of COVID-19 which pre-dated any 
government measure were equal causes of the imposition of that measure. 
The Supreme Court decided that whether the legal but for test applied depended on 
the interpretation of the policy as applied to the facts. The Supreme Court said no 
reasonable person would expect an outbreak of a notifiable disease to be confined to 
a particular radius. It was highly likely cases would be inside and outside the radius. 
And it would be contrary to the commercial purpose of the policies for cases of 
disease occurring outside the radius to deprive the policyholder of cover for cases 
inside the radius. The radius clauses did not say that cover was only for cases inside 
the radius.The Supreme Court also considered the insurers argument that the number of cases 
inside and outside the radius should be weighed up when deciding whether the 
cases inside the radius caused the loss. They rejected this argument because, not 
only would doing this be unworkable, although each case of disease was individual, 
the effects of the disease  the government measures  were indivisible.
Instead, the Supreme Court preferred: an interpretation that recognises the causal 
requirements of the policy wordings as being satisfied in circumstances where each 
case of disease informs a decision to impose restrictions and treats each such case 
as a separate and equally effective cause of the restrictions irrespective of its 
geographical location and the locations of other such cases [as this] avoids such 
irrational effects and the need for arbitrary judgments and is also clear and simple to 
apply. This accords with the presumed intention of the parties to an insurance 
product sold principally to SMEs and often with relatively low financial limits. (para 
206 of the Supreme Court judgment).
Cases at a particular premises might be present for a shorter period and be less 
numerous than the cases across the wider country, but are still individual events that 
happened at a particular time and place. And the investigator considered each one of 
these events/occurrences to have been an equal cause of the Governments 
decisions.
The investigator considered the Supreme Courts analysis on causation applied 
equally to the clause in Rs policy. This was because:
oThe main difference between Rs disease clause and the hybrid clauses 
considered by the Supreme Court is that the clauses in the test case offered 
cover when the disease was within a particular radius of the premises, rather 
than requiring the disease to be at the premises. However, the Supreme 
Court did not think the size of the radius made any difference.
oAll the policies cover infectious diseases which are inherently likely to spread.
oThe Supreme Court said that cover under a radius clause would be triggered 
if there was one case within the radius, so there was no requirement for a 
large number of cases.
oLike the test case policies, Rs policy does not say that cover is available 
only for the case of disease at the premises. The cases on and off the 
premises are concurrent causes of Rs loss and the cases off the premises 
are not an excluded cause. All the cases of disease result from the same 
cause, the COVID-19 pandemic.
oThe investigator also noted that Rs policy doesnt require the disease to have 
originated at the premises, so any case on the premises is reasonably likely 
to have arrived from another location and to be part of a wider outbreak.
Ultimately, the investigator considered the occurrence on Rs premises was one of 
those taken into account by the UK Government when making its decision to 
introduce the Regulations. As such it was a proximate cause of the restrictions.
The restrictions had caused an interruption to Rs business, which had resulted in 
insured losses. Allianz was therefore liable for those losses, subject to the remaining 
terms of Rs policy.
The investigator also felt that interest should be paid on those losses for the period 
since the claim should reasonably have been paid. And set out details of how this 
should be calculated in the absence of further evidence.
My provisional decisionFollowing Allianz disagreement with the investigators opinion, I issued my provisional 
decision. 
My provisional decision was that the investigator was correct in her opinion and her 
explanation of the arguments. But that I felt it necessary to expand on certain points.
Allianz had accepted that COVID-19 is a disease which falls within the relevant definition in 
the policy, that there was most likely an occurrence of COVID-19 at Rs premises, and that 
this caused an interruption to Rs business. So, these points were not considered in detail.
I explained the relevant clause had a number of elements, and these  in their correct causal 
sequence  were:
1. an occurrence of a Notifiable Human Disease at Rs premises, which causes
2. closure or restrictions placed on the premises on the advice or with the approval of 
the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority, which cause
3. an interruption or interference with Rs business that is the cause of financial loss.
I said that I considered the main issue was whether the approach taken by the court to 
radius clauses should also be applied to Rs disease clause, given the content of that clause 
and the context of the rest of the policy and circumstances.
I confirmed that, largely speaking, the question of whether the placing of restrictions on Rs 
premises by the Regulations was as a result of the occurrence of COVID-19 at Rs premises, 
is one of causation. And that I was in agreement with Allianz that the appropriate test of 
causation here was to consider, objectively and in the context of the policy as a whole, what 
the intended effect of the policy term was as it applies to the circumstances of the claim.
Do the principles applied by the Supreme Court on radius clauses apply to at the premises 
clauses?
I felt the first question to be determined was whether the approach taken on causation by the 
Supreme Court in relation to radius clauses also applies to at the premises clauses. 
I noted that, whilst different policies have different wordings, there is no significant difference 
between the contractual construction of the radius clauses to the at the premises clauses. 
The only difference between these clauses is the geographical area that they cover.
I referred to Allianzs comments that other types of policy included subclauses, under areas 
of cover similar to Extension 1, that provide separate cover in relation to both occurrences 
in the radius and at the premises. And that the FCAs submissions to the courts and the 
Supreme Courts own comments referred to this. 
However, I said that the Supreme Court had not been asked to determine the correct 
interpretation of at the premises clauses. And its comments, at paragraph 71 of its judgment, 
were made in relation to a specific policy. I noted, as had the investigator, that the fact the 
policy being considered by the court included both in the radius and at the premises 
subclauses was likely to be context the court bore in mind when considering the potential 
meaning of the terms.I also noted that, when making its comments, the Supreme Court was considering how the 
insured peril should be interpreted in relation to that particular policy  the court was not 
considering causation when making these comments. Ultimately, the court found that the 
approach that applied to the interpretation of the insured peril was the same for both radius 
clauses and at the premises clauses. And that this was that clause only covers the cases of 
COVID-19 which occur within that radius. The cover is for the cases of disease within the 
radius (or at the premises, depending on the wording of the policy), not for the disease itself 
nor for the consequences of diseases outside the radius/premises.
I said the impact on the cover of requiring the disease to occur on the premises is the same 
as is provided by a policy limiting the relevant radius to one mile, rather than 25 miles. It 
does not change the form of cover provided, it merely lowers the chance of the policy term 
being activated. There is less chance of an occurrence at the premises than within one mile 
of the premises, and there is less chance of an occurrence within one mile of the premises 
than within 25 miles. Each individual occurrence, regardless of where it occurred, was an 
equal cause of the restrictions being imposed. But for the impact of that occurrence to be 
covered, the occurrence must be within the geographical limit set by the policy.
I considered that, taken at face value, radius clauses offer the same type of cover as at the 
premises clauses  the only difference being a smaller geographical area where the 
occurrence needs to take place before resulting business interruption is covered. 
I did not consider there to be much weight to Allianzs argument that if R had wanted off-
premises disease cover, to provide for the consequences of closures or restrictions being 
placed on its premises because of disease beyond its premises, it couldve purchased a 
policy with a radius clause. I did not consider this was what R had wanted, nor what the 
investigator suggested should be provided by the policy that R did purchase. I also did not 
consider the different types of business interruption cover available to be reasonable 
background knowledge for a hair salon business to have.
I confirmed it is the construction and objectively understood intent of Rs policy that is 
relevant to Rs claim and complaint. If Allianz had wanted to limit the policy to instances 
where a disease only occurred on the premises, it could have specifically said so in the term 
or provided appropriate exclusions. Alternatively, if Allianz wanted to provide cover for 
disease that would only likely be found on the premises, they could have limited the 
definition of Notifiable Human Disease to those diseases likely to be limited to the premises. 
As it is, Allianz has provided a policy that provides cover for the consequences of various 
diseases, many of which are likely to be widespread.
The diseases covered by the policy
The second issue I focussed my provisional decision on was the types of disease covered 
by the policy.
I explained that Allianz had placed a great deal of reliance on how the policy would provide 
cover in relation to a disease which is inherently likely to be more localised  Legionnaires 
disease. I said that Rs policy, as with many similar policies  both those with radius clauses 
and at the premises clauses - provides cover for Notifiable Human Diseases. And that this 
was effectively any of the diseases on the list of notifiable diseases in Schedule 1 of The 
Health Protection (Notification) Regulations 2010, including any new disease added to this 
list. The list of diseases was therefore open-ended.
I noted this list includes a range of illnesses, many of which are likely to be far more 
widespread than Legionnaires disease. Additionally, many of the diseases are unlikely to 
have originated at the premises, so an occurrence there is likely to be part of a larger outbreak. I said that if Allianz had wanted to restrict cover in Rs policy to disease originating 
at the premises, it could have done so. But it did not.
I also said the same risk of a widespread and unpredictable outbreak of disease applies to 
both the radius clauses and the at the premises clauses. If these wide-spreading diseases 
are on the policyholders premises, they are also likely to be found outside of these 
premises. So, whether or not the disease is on the premises, it seems that the actions of the 
relevant authority will in fact largely be the same.
I considered it was likely restrictions would be introduced covering a broad geographical 
area in relation to many of the diseases covered by Rs policy. And this would have been 
something that both Allianz and R might reasonably have been aware of at the time the 
insurance contract was entered. I quoted the Supreme Courts comments at paragraph 194 
of its judgment:
we consider that the matters of background knowledge to which the court below 
attached weight in interpreting the policy wordings are important. The parties to the 
insurance contracts may be presumed to have known that some infectious diseases - 
including, potentially, a new disease (like SARS) - can spread rapidly, widely and 
unpredictably. It is obvious that an outbreak of an infectious disease may not be 
confined to a specific locality or to a circular area delineated by a radius of 25 miles 
around a policyholders premises. Hence no reasonable person would suppose that, 
if an outbreak of an infectious disease occurred which included cases within such a 
radius and was sufficiently serious to interrupt the policyholders business, all the 
cases of disease would necessarily occur within the radius. It is highly likely that such 
an outbreak would comprise cases both inside and outside the radius and that 
measures taken by a public authority which affected the business would be taken in 
response to the outbreak as a whole and not just to those cases of disease which 
happened to fall within the circumference of the circle described by the radius 
provision.
I considered that this reasoning also applies in relation to a policy which provides cover only 
where there is an occurrence of such a disease at the premises of the insured. Whilst some 
of the notifiable diseases covered by the policy, including Legionnaires disease, would in 
some cases be limited to a very localised outbreak  potentially contained to the premises  
many of the diseases covered by the policy would inherently be those that would be found 
beyond the premises if they ever occurred on the premises. As with radius clauses, it would 
be contrary to the commercial purpose of the policies for cases of disease occurring outside 
the premises to deprive the policyholder of cover for cases at the premises.
Restrictions relating solely to occurrences of a disease at the premises
I then moved on to consider whether Rs policy should be interpreted to provide cover only in 
circumstances where any action or advice from the relevant authority is directed solely (or at 
least to a significant degree) at the premises.
I acknowledged Allianzs comments that the other subclauses in Extension 1 all relate to 
events originating from the premises of the insured. But said it isnt disputed that the 
requirement in terms of Rs disease clause also relates to an event at the premises. Nor that 
the policy only provides cover for the consequences of that event, rather than events outside 
the premises. The question is whether the event at the premises  the occurrence of 
COVID-19  was the cause of the restrictions that were placed on Rs premises.
I noted that the relevant legislation, including the Health Protection (Coronavirus, 
Restrictions) (England) (No. 3) Regulations 2020, gave local authorities the authority to close or impose restrictions on individual premises where it is necessary to control the spread of 
COVID-19 (amongst other reasons). But I did not consider this was necessarily limited to a 
situation where a single business is told to close its premises because of an occurrence of 
COVID-19 only on those premises. Given the contagious nature of many of the notifiable 
diseases, including COVID-19, its likely that the disease would spread to more than one 
location and so more widespread action would be required.
I also noted that it was unlikely that such action would be taken in relation to any specific 
premises after just one occurrence, as these regulations require that the response be 
proportionate. And that in the case of individual businesses that had been given specific 
directions under these regulations, this was apparently as a result of behavioural reasons 
(staff not following guidelines, etc.), rather than due to there being an identifiable occurrence 
at the premises. The management of behaviour at specific premises will have been intended 
to control the spread of COVID-19, but the directions not seem to have been the result of 
any occurrence at those premises specifically.
And that where it is the occurrence(s) of COVID-19 that has led to restrictions being 
introduced, either by the UK Government or by local authorities, the measures taken have 
been more widespread and generalised. These have included national lockdowns, the tier 
system, and more localised lockdowns (for example those relating to Leicester).
I agreed with Allianz that hindsight in terms of the development of the COVID-19 pandemic 
should not be used when interpreting the terms of the policy, and said what was relevant is 
the circumstances that would have existed at the point R and Allianz entered this contract. 
But I referred to the comments of Lord Briggs (and with which Lord Hodge agreed) in his 
minority judgment at paragraph 316 of the Supreme Court judgment, which said:
This is not to mis-use the dubious benefit of hindsight when applying an insuring 
clause to events which could not have been contemplated by the parties at the time 
of their bargain. As the majority show, there were a number of well-known notifiable 
diseases (such as cholera, plague, typhus, yellow fever and SARS) to which the 
relevant clauses clearly applied, all of which were capable of spreading rapidly and 
widely, so as potentially to cause a threat to health on a national scale, and to 
threaten a national reaction by the responsible authorities, leading to business 
disruption on a national scale.
I considered it likely that if there were occurrences of many of the diseases covered by Rs 
policy, the actions taken would likely have been similar. Reference was made to the actions 
taken by other governments in relation to outbreaks of SARS and Ebola which led to broad 
geographical areas or multiple types of business having restrictions imposed on them. I said 
it seems that the more likely the disease is to be wide-spreading, the more wide-spread the 
restrictions will be that are imposed to control that disease.
By including cover for a number of diseases where the likely actions to be taken would be 
those that would impact more than a single premises, I considered Allianz has seemingly 
agreed to provide cover where actions are taken (in relevant situations) that impact more 
than just the insureds premises.
I referred to Allianzs comments that the losses suffered by a policyholder as a result of 
cases of disease at the premises are divisible from those suffered as a result of cases of 
disease across the wider country. But I was not persuaded by these comments. The cases 
all arise from the same underlying cause  the COVID-19 pandemic. I thought that other 
cases of the disease are something which would naturally be expected if there is a case on 
the premises. I considered consequences arising from the same event, which would naturally be expected to occur at the same time as the insured peril, are not a separate and 
distinct risk and should not act to restrict the cover provided.
The comparison with prevention of access and sanitary arrangement terms
The next issue I considered was whether prevention of access and sanitary arrangement 
terms in other policies mean disease at the premises clauses should be interpreted as 
being limited to localised events. Ultimately, I did not consider it was reasonable to apply this 
to a disease at the premises policy term.
I noted that the prevention of access terms considered by the High Court related (generally) 
to an emergency/danger/incident taking place in the vicinity of the relevant premises, such 
as a bomb scare, traffic accident or gas leak. Whilst the occurrence of a disease might be 
considered such an event, that would depend on the policy wording; it was noted that a 
person sustaining COVID-19 would not likely be an incident.
I also noted that the cover provided by those terms was constructed differently than at the 
premises clauses. The prevention of access terms relate to a single event  an 
emergency/danger/incident  and these types of event were unlikely to carry an inherent risk 
of spreading any further. Whereas many of the notifiable diseases Allianz chose to include 
within the scope of Rs policy are those that do carry such an inherent risk of spreading. I 
didnt consider it was reasonable to apply the interpretation of one type of clause to another, 
where there are such clear differences.
I also made reference to the reasoning of the High Court around the term vicinity in relation 
to the prevention of access clauses. And that a different approach was taken by the 
Supreme Court when considering radius clauses. 
I referred to the comments made by an Irish court in its judgment on Brushfield. I 
acknowledged that the policy in that case covered the closure of the premises as a result of 
a defect in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at the premises. And that the Irish 
considered this to be limited to a closure prompted by a premises-specific defect. I said the 
comments the court made were what the English courts would consider to be non-binding 
(obiter) as it was not necessary for the Irish court to determine the matter. 
And I went on to say that the events being covered by the policy in that case were inherently 
different to the relevant term in Rs policy. The term in question in Brushfield related to the 
drains or other sanitary arrangements at the premises. These are things that are inherently 
premises specific. And the defect in the sanitary arrangements that was being considered by 
the court was the (in)ability to implement effective social distancing arrangements on the 
premises  something in itself premises-specific, not capable of naturally spreading beyond 
those premises and over which the insured had some control. 
This is in contrast to considerations around diseases, many of which are inherently 
contagious and wide-spreading, and a policyholder would have little control over such 
spread. So, I was not persuaded it would be fair to directly apply to Rs policy the comments, 
made by the Irish court.
I noted that different tests of causation can apply to different policy wordings, depending on 
what the clause was meant to cover. But it is clear that both the radius clauses and at the 
premises clauses are intended to cover situations where there is the occurrence of a certain 
disease and this causes interruption to the business of the insured. Whilst the geographic 
requirements of the clauses differ, there is no other immediate difference in their intent.Overall, I considered that it would be fair and reasonable to interpret the term above in Rs 
policy as providing cover for the restrictions imposed as a result of the occurrence(s) of 
COVID-19 on its premises.
Was the occurrence at Rs premises an equal cause of the lockdown?
I then went on to consider whether the occurrence at Rs premises was an equal cause of 
the Regulations. 
I agreed with Allianz that the Supreme Court did not specifically find that the occurrence of 
COVID-19 at any particular premises was influential on the Governments decision making. 
But felt it was important to stress that this was not something the court was asked to make a 
finding on. What the Supreme Court did find was that each and every occurrence of 
COVID-19 was an equal and proximate cause of the Governments decision-making 
process.
The Supreme Court set out some general principles or standards to be applied when 
considering the proximate cause of loss. These included determining whether a peril that is 
covered by the policy had any causal involvement, and if so whether a peril that was 
excluded from the cover provided by the policy had any such involvement. And then 
determining whether the occurrence of one of these made the loss inevitable in the ordinary 
course of events.
The court went onto say that whilst the Governments decisions to introduce the restrictions 
in March 2020 could not reasonably be attributed to any individual occurrence of COVID-19, 
this decision was taken in response to all the cases in the country as a whole. And the 
Supreme Court agreed with the High Court here that, all the cases were equal causes of the 
imposition of national measures. The Supreme Court decided that here was no reason why 
one insured event, acting in combination within a number of uninsured events, should not be 
regarded as a proximate cause of loss even if that insured event was not necessary or 
sufficient to bring about the loss on its own. And that; Whether that causal connection is 
sufficient to trigger the insurers obligation to indemnify the policyholder depends on what 
has been agreed between them.
As such, I felt the key issue was what risks Allianz agreed to cover; which is a question of 
contractual interpretation of Rs policy, answered by applying the intended effect of the policy 
to the circumstances of Rs claim.
I noted that in making its findings in the test case, the Supreme Court relied on the 
presumption that an infectious and contagious disease  like many of those Allianz chose to 
cover in Rs policy  can spread rapidly, widely and unpredictably, so that an outbreak which 
is sufficiently serious to lead to a policyholder suffering an interruption to their business was 
highly likely to include cases inside and outside the radius relevant to the policy. The court 
found it would not be feasible, and would be contrary to the commercial intent of the policy, 
for cases outside of the radius to deprive the policyholder of cover in relation to cases within 
the radius. I quoted paragraph 206 of the Supreme Court judgment to support this.
I said radius clauses did not limit cover to situations where the interruption of the business 
was caused only by cases of disease occurring within the area, as distinct from other cases 
outside the area. And, in such circumstances, other concurrent effects on an insured 
business of the underlying cause of the business interruption, i.e. the pandemic generally, do 
not reduce the indemnity under the relevant clause.
I saw no persuasive reason why the considerations that the Supreme Court applied 
generally to radius clauses do not equally apply to at the premises clauses. And felt the same applied here. As the Supreme Court said, all that is necessary for a radius clause 
which also requires the closure to be as a result of, for example, government action, is for 
the closure or restrictions to be in response to cases of COVID-19 which included at least 
one case existing within the geographical area set out in the relevant clause. In Rs case, 
this geographical area is its premises and there was at least one occurrence within this area. 
And I considered the Governments actions and advice were in response to cases of 
COVID-19, which included the case(s) that occurred at Rs premises.
I noted Allianzs argument that there is no evidence that the Government had access to data 
on or acted in response to specific cases of COVID-19 at particular premises. But felt the 
same could be argued in relation to the 1-mile radius clauses. And I didnt find this argument 
generally compelling. Allianz has suggested that the lowest level of data used was that at a 
local authority level. Many local authorities will be larger than a 1-mile radius. To take 
Allianzs argument to its conclusion would be to remove cover for policies which are based 
on a 1-mile radius; and I didnt think this was the intent of the Supreme Court.
I referred to the available date from the FCA calculator and set out that this showed that by 
23 March 2020 there were 6 reported cases within 1 mile of Rs premises and 604 estimated 
cases within this area. Expanding this radius to 25 miles gave 633 reported and 59,378 
estimated cases. I said the difference between these numbers provides a clear indication 
that it was the size of the estimated cases rather than reported cases which directed the 
Governments decision.
I explained that as well as data for the reported cases that the Government had access to, 
the decision it took was also made due to the estimated number of unreported cases. It was 
the number of these unreported cases, as well as the reported ones, that would have led to 
the Government making its decision. Each one of these reported and unreported cases will 
have arguably been a proximate cause of the Governments decision-making process. But it 
would not be possible for an estimated occurrence to lead to an insurance claim where an 
actual occurrence was required by the policy.
I pointed out that the data being considered by the Government when making its decision 
would also have been historic. That the Governments advisory groups drew on information 
from a number of sources. That decisions on the lockdown were prompted largely by a 
desire to ensure the NHS was not overwhelmed. That the models being considered were 
predictions of future hospitalisations taking into account, amongst other things, the 
reproduction ratio of the infection (the R-number), which is affected by numerous factors that 
govern pathogen transmission and is, as I understood it, therefore usually estimated using 
different complex mathematical models. And that the data referenced in the government 
briefings was based on the events that took place over the preceding weeks.
I said that by the time the decision to introduce the Regulations was taken, a number of 
individuals who had sustained COVID-19 would already have recovered. But I considered 
these cases would still be those that, together with the other cases around that time, were 
the concurrent causes of the Governments decision. The Government and its advisors were 
not looking at individual cases in isolation, they were considering the accumulation of these 
which would have formed the framework of the rate of infection and allowed for a prediction 
as to the future R-number and resultant hospitalisations.
I acknowledged that the courts indicated that a person passing through an area, involving no 
contact with anyone and therefore no risk of transmitting the disease, might not be enough to 
trigger the insured peril under a radius clause. However, I considered this is entirely different 
from someone who remained in the area for some time and had numerous interactions with 
various people. Whilst that person may then have left the area in question, their presence 
created a risk of the disease having been transmitted. And it is this risk, and the potential of this leading to hospitalisation and the overwhelming of the NHS, that led to the 
Governments decisions at this time.
I noted that although each case of disease was individual, the effects of the disease  the 
government measures  were indivisible.
R had already closed its premises
I further noted that, by the time the Government made its decision, Rs premises had already 
been closed and so there was no longer any occurrence on those premises. But there had 
been an occurrence on the premises. And for the reasons above, I thought it was more likely 
than not that this occurrence would have been one of those the Government took into 
account when forming its decision.
I also noted that at the point R closed there werent any restrictions that had been placed on 
the premises. The decision to initially close was largely one that Ms C took, so that she could 
self-isolate. The advice of the Government at this time would not have required her to 
actually self-isolate unless she was displaying symptoms of COVID-19, which Ms C hasnt 
said she was. Or required R to close its premises  other than if this was necessary to clean 
and disinfect all surfaces that the symptomatic person had come into contact with.
I referred to Allianzs argument that the lockdown measures did not act to close Rs premises 
and therefore did not cause the interruption to its business  such interruption had already 
occurred as a result of Ms Cs decision to close the premises. I said that, but for the 
Regulations, it seems probable Ms C wouldve reopened the premises soon after. So, the 
Regulations could be seen as being the cause of the closure beyond a date a few days after 
the initial closure. 
I also found Allianzs argument somewhat contrived. I explained that had the circumstances 
been different and the cause of continued closure been, for example, a fire, I would not 
expect Allianz to argue that there was no cover for the closure as a result of a fire because 
the premises had already been closed temporarily to allow for cleaning.
And whilst I appreciated that part of the cause of Rs continued closure in the present case is 
the same as its initial closure (i.e. the occurrence of COVID-19 on the premises), the term in 
the policy is a composite one. The term requires both the occurrence and the action of the 
relevant authority. It is the action of this authority that is also an integral element of the 
continued closure and this action had not taken place at the time of the initial closure. Prior 
to the Prime Ministers announcement, there were no restrictions that had been placed on 
the premises that caused any interruption to its business. So, overall, I was not persuaded 
by Allianzs points here.
The Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority
I then went on to consider Allianzs final points, in terms of denying liability. These were in 
relation to whether the actions taken by the Government were based on the advice of or 
with the approval of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority. 
Allianz has said that Professor Chris Whitty is the Chief Medical Officer and that he is not the 
Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority. Allianz has also argued that, in the context 
of this clause, Public Authority is the local authority only, rather than the national 
government.I noted that neither of these terms are defined within the policy. As such, they need to be 
interpreted as they would be understood by a reasonable person at the time of entering the 
contract.
I explained that Medical officer of health is largely a historical term. It was used in the 
Public Health Act 1961, but it is not in more recent public health legislation. Section 37 of this 
Act relates to the sale of verminous articles and appears to be the only legislative term 
relating to the medical officer of health. The role itself is also historic and no longer exists. I 
noted that when the role was in existence, it did have a focus on local authority matters 
rather than anything national. But considered this to be a reflection of the make-up of 
healthcare services generally at the time medical officers of health were introduced, rather 
than the current situation which is more of a mix between national and localised healthcare.
I considered the current set-up of the healthcare system was also significant when 
considering the potential actions taken in the face of the occurrence of many of the diseases 
covered by Rs policy. As set out above, the responses to many of these diseases would be 
wide-spread and would require more nationally-orientated action. To say that the policy 
provides cover for a disease that would likely only be acted upon by national government, 
but then to limit cover to the actions of a local authority would, to my mind, provide an 
irrational result.
Ultimately, I said the clause refers to a term that is dated and it would not be reasonable to 
expect a customer taking out an insurance policy of this nature to understand the historical 
positioning of a redundant role, and then apply that to how the clause in question should be 
interpreted in relation to cover for a wide-spreading disease. An alternative question is 
whether a reasonable customer would consider that a clause referring to the advice of the 
Medical Officer of Health would include the advice of the Chief Medical Officer for England. I 
considered that this is how a reasonable person would have interpreted this clause at the 
time the policy was taken out.
And even if this was not the case, as Allianz has pointed out, the Government made its 
decision relying on information provided, in part, by local authorities. Neither of the terms 
advice or approval are defined with Rs policy either. But it is possible the Government 
made its decision on the advice of or with the approval of health care professionals working 
at a local level. Because I do not consider the term Medical Officer of Health to be limited in 
the way Allianz suggests, I did not feel it necessary to explore this further.
I recognised that Rs disease clause also refers to the Public Authority and that Allianz had 
said that this is distinguished from other clauses within the policy that refer to only 
government or government or any public authority, such as those relating respectively to 
terrorism and riot. Allianz had therefore said that, in Rs disease clause, Public Authority 
should be read as referring to a non-government, local authority.
Allianz had further said that the other subclause in Extension 1 that refers to Public Authority 
is concerned with the drains and sanitary conditions of the premises, and that it is only a 
local authority that would have any interest in these matters.
I noted that different parts of the policy use different terminology. However, I also noted that 
they do so in different ways. The term Public Authority in Extension 1 is capitalised, 
indicating it has a specific meaning. This meaning is not specified within the policy, but this is 
distinguishable from its use in the riot clause where the term is not capitalised. I didnt think 
it was clear therefore that these two terms have the same meaning.
I didnt consider it would be fair to assume that a reasonable person, on entering into this 
policy, would compare the use of this wording in different parts of the policy, and to conclude that its use in different parts should be interpreted in a particular way, especially where that 
wording isnt given a specific definition. The reasonable reader would naturally assume that, 
if the intention had been to give a term a special meaning, this would have been done 
transparently by providing a definition.
And I didnt consider the fact that these words are also used in relation to the drainage 
subclause to be determinative. Reading the policy as a whole, I didnt think the term used in 
Extension 1 should be read to be restricted to local authorities.
I referred to the consideration by the High Court in the FCA test case of the EIO policy. The 
High Court found the wording competent local authority to mean, in relation to that policy, 
the authority competent to impose the relevant restrictions. I also noted that this wording in 
the EIO policy contrasted with the use of Government Police or Local Authority elsewhere 
within the clause, but did not lead the court to consider competent local authority did not 
include the Government.
The court did refer to the legislative background, and I noted Allianzs comments about the 
historical role of the Medical Officer of Health and how this should act to imply a localisation 
of the term Public Authority. But, as above, I didnt consider it was rational that only the 
result of the actions of a local authority be covered where the policy provides cover for 
diseases that would in many cases be acted on by non-localised authorities.
I considered the words Public Authority, in the absence of any further definition, could only 
be fairly interpreted in a broad sense. And so would include the actions of the Government. 
Whilst I took Allianzs points into account, I was not persuaded that a reasonable person 
reading Rs policy would interpret the wording used in Extension 1 as relating only to advice 
or approval of a locally based medical officer, and excluding any action by Government. I 
didnt believe such a restrictive interpretation to be reasonable. To paraphrase the Supreme 
Court, I didnt think this would be the understanding held by the ordinary policyholder who, 
on entering into the contract, has read through Rs policy conscientiously in order to 
understand what cover they were getting.
Limitation of the indemnity period
I then considered Allianzs comments about whether, if Rs claim meets all the elements of 
Rs disease clause, this means that Allianz is liable for the full extent of the period R was 
closed (up to the maximum £50,000 loss set out in the clause). Allianz had said that the 
policy defines the indemnity period as the period; during which the results of the Business 
shall be affected in consequence of the Damage. And Allianz considered this means, at 
best, the period until R was no longer being affected by the restrictions imposed on the 
premises as a result of the occurrence of COVID-19 at the premises.
I noted Allianz had referred to regulation 3(2) of the Regulations. Allianz had said that, even 
if the occurrence of COVID-19 at Rs premises prior to 21 March 2020 could be regarded as 
having caused the Government to implement the Regulations, the Government would have 
reviewed the need to continue the closure of hairdressing salons on 16 April 2020. And as 
there was no occurrence on the premises at that point, that occurrence could not have been 
the cause of the continued restrictions.
However, I felt it necessary to refer to regulation 3(1) of these regulations. For clarity, I have 
set out the whole of regulation 3 below in my findings. I explained that the emergency period (which was the period during which relevant 
businesses, including hair salons, were required to close) was introduced by one direction  
that which made the Regulations. And then was ended by a second direction  that which 
made the Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (No. 2) (England) Regulations 2020.
And that, whilst the need for the restrictions had to be reviewed every 21 days, I did not 
consider this resulted in any new restrictions being imposed on Rs premises that caused an 
interruption to its business. So, I was not persuaded that Allianzs liability runs only until the 
first, or any other, review point  other than that which resulted in the second direction.
Interest payable
I then moved on to consider what interest should be payable on any award that I directed 
Allianz should make in my final decision. 
I explained it is not the role of this service to penalise financial businesses. Where we uphold 
a complaint, our role is to put complainants back in the position they would have been in, 
had the issue they have complained about not happened. I noted that, in this case, the 
complaint is about the outcome of the claim.
As above, based on the information I had at the time of my provisional decision, I considered 
Allianz came to the wrong decision when considering Rs disease clause. So, I thought it 
was just and appropriate that Allianz reconsider Rs claim, taking into account the remaining 
terms of the policy. And, if it was then determined that Allianz should have met Rs claim, 
this is the outcome that it should have come to in 2020 when the claim was made.
I explained that such a decision in 2020 was not something the FCA issued any guidance on 
and was a decision that Allianz made itself. So, I didnt think it was reasonable to say that it 
followed FCA guidance here.
I noted that Allianz may argue that it is only the courts interpretation, and judgment, from 
January 2021 that has led to the outcome in my provisional decision. And so interest should 
only be payable from the date of the judgment. However, I disagreed with this interpretation. 
I felt the decision that was made incorrectly, based on my provisional decision, was the one 
made in 2020 and it is the consequences of this that have had any negative impact on R that 
has been incurred. So I considered, it is from that point onward that R was denied money it 
might otherwise have had, and it is this loss that Allianz needs to account for.
I did however note that on 15 June 2020, R took out a £10,000 bounce back loan. And that 
interest was not payable on this for the first 12 months. I said my understanding was that 
interest has since been charged at a rate of 2.5%. I explained that as Ms C has said that the 
reason this loan was taken was due to the claim being declined, this will alter the interest 
payable on any settlement due to R. 
Misleading information
Finally, I considered whether the compensation offered to R, in relation to errors made by 
Allianz when communicating with Ms C during the claim process, was fair and reasonable. I 
explained that I had considered the impact of the incorrect information provided to R. I noted 
that this is a limited company, and as such it cannot suffer distress. So, whilst I recognised 
Ms C herself may have been greatly upset, she is not the policyholder or complainant. As 
such, I was unable to take into account the personal impact on her.I confirmed I had considered the inconvenience caused to R, including the need for it to seek 
alternative funding elsewhere  i.e. the bounce back loan. And taking all of this into account, 
I considered Allianzs offer of compensation for this aspect to be fair and reasonable. I 
invited Ms C to submit any further comments or evidence as to the impact on R.
The summary in my provisional decision
In summary, I was satisfied that Rs policy with Allianz is a contract with its own terms. I had 
considered how these terms would likely have been interpreted by a reasonable person at 
the point the contract was entered into, bearing in mind that it is a policy sold to SMEs.
I didnt think a reasonable person would interpret a clause that provides cover in relation to 
various diseases, including those most likely to be wide-spread and hence requiring 
far-reaching measures to tackle them, to be limited to consequences directed solely at the 
insureds premises.
I thought it was reasonable to read Rs disease cause, in the context of the rest of the policy 
and the circumstances of the claim, as providing cover for losses resulting from the 
occurrence(s) of COVID-19 at its premises. Although I couldnt be sure, I also thought it was 
more likely than not that this is how a court would interpret this term.
Given the findings of the Supreme Court, I also thought the occurrence(s) on Rs premises 
was an equally effective concurrent cause, of the decision to introduce the Regulations, as 
the occurrences beyond the limits of Rs premises. And the cases off the premises are not 
an excluded cause.
Referring back to the elements of the insured peril I had set out earlier in my provisional 
decision, in their correct causal sequence, and taking the points above into account, I said I 
was satisfied that:
An illness caused by COVID-19 was sustained by a person at Rs premises.
This occurrence was a proximate and concurrent cause of the Governments 
decision to introduce the Regulations.
These Regulations were introduced on the advice or with the approval of a person or 
persons who would be considered the Medical Officer of Health for the Public 
Authority.
These Regulations placed restrictions on Rs premises. And,
These restrictions caused an interruption or interference with Rs business that likely 
caused a loss.
As the elements of Rs disease clause have been met in the circumstances, I considered 
Allianz decision to decline Rs claim was not made correctly. And I so didnt consider Allianz 
dealt with Rs complaint fairly or reasonably.
How I thought things should be put right
I then set out how Allianz should put this right. Briefly, this involved reconsidering Rs claim 
on the basis that there was an occurrence on its premises that caused an interruption to its 
business from 23 March 2020 to 4 July 2020. And that if, taking into account the remaining 
terms of the policy, any settlement is due to R, Allianz should pay this along with paying 
interest on this settlement generally at a rate of 8% simple per annum  though adjustments 
for the bounce back loan would need to be taken into account. And I confirmed that Allianz 
should pay R the £500 compensation offered, if it had not already done so.I invited both parties to provide any further evidence or comment. Ms C had no further 
information to add. Allianz responded in detail, and I have summarised their response in 
terms of their arguments below. 
Included in its response, Allianz also had some questions around the proposed settlement 
and periods for which the relevant interest was payable. I asked the investigator to expand 
upon the basis of this calculation, which she has done. A copy of this was provided to Ms C. 
I do not consider it necessary to go into the details of this, at this point however.
Allianzs response to my provisional decision
I have not repeated the full content of the response Allianz made to my provisional decision. 
But I have summarised the points it made below:
Allianz emphasised that it was the circumstances that existed at the time the policy 
was taken out  i.e. before the pandemic  and the intended effect of Rs disease 
clause at that time, which was key. 
Allianz referred to a consensus of opinion between the FCA, this service, and 
insurers, that it considered existed before the Supreme Court judgment and hence at 
the time Rs policy was taken out. Allianz said this consensus was that the intended 
effect of at the premises clauses was to cover the consequences of a disease 
occurring at the insureds premises and not the consequences of the disease being 
in the wider area. Allianz referred to the FCAs submissions to the Supreme Court, 
that courts comments at para 71 of its judgment, and a previous decision made by 
this service - T v Liberty Mutual (decision reference DRN-2259763). 
Allianz said that this consensus that it considers existed was also the reason why at 
the premises clauses were not included in the FCA test case, and why the FCA told 
insurers that they should let policyholders with such clauses know that the cover 
afforded by such clauses would not be affected by the test case.
Allianz did not consider there to have been any significant change since the Supreme 
Court judgment, and that the correct test of causation remained a question of 
contractual interpretation, which is answered by identifying objectively, at the time the 
policy was taken out, the intended effect of the relevant clause. 
Allianz felt the view taken before the Supreme Court judgment was the one that the 
parties would have had at the time the policy was taken out. 
Allianz considered it was inconsistent of me to suggest in my provisional decision 
that an at the premises clause is materially the same as a radius clause, whilst 
dismissing the Supreme Courts views on an at the premises subclause on the basis 
that such should be viewed in the context of this appearing within a clause that 
included separate at the premises and radius subclauses. Allianz felt it was illogical 
to imply that if a policy included a disease radius subclause, the at the premises 
element of the clause might have been interpreted more narrowly. Allianz said the 
fact that R had only been given at the premises cover, and not cover for restrictions 
due to disease in a wider radius, strengthens the case for saying that the clause 
contemplates and is limited to the at the premises aspect of the disease, not a 
wider outbreak.
Allianz considered my interpretation of the clause effectively means that the 
policyholder ends up with cover for all the business interruption consequences of a 
notifiable disease, wherever in the country it occurs, provided that (and from the time when) there is at least one case of the disease at the premises. And that the 
Supreme Court had said this was not the cover provided by such a clause.
Allianz felt that I had interpreted the policy with the benefit of hindsight, rather than by 
assessing the objective intent of the policy at the time it was taken out.
Allianz also, effectively, said that even if there was cover in the circumstances of Rs 
claim for the start of the period it was closed as a result of the Regulations, this 
period of indemnity could not last the entire period R was closed between March and 
July 2020. Allianz said that my finding was that once there is a single case of disease 
at the premises, that person is an effective cause of everything that follows in the 
lockdown, even though (a) there was nobody at the premises with the disease when 
the Government subsequently reviewed the need for continuing lockdown and (b) the 
person who had been at the premises with the disease had long since recovered as 
the lockdown continued. And Allianz did not consider this was correct.
In support of this, Allianz referred to paragraph 572 of the High Court judgment, 
which set out some detail over which cases could be considered as persuasive 
evidence of there having been an occurrence on a given day, within a particular 
radius. Allianz felt this meant the court clearly envisaged that once a person had 
recovered from Covid-19, they were not to be taken into account as being an 
ongoing, effective cause of a lockdown. And that once a person with disease is no 
longer at the premises, they cannot be an effective cause of an ongoing national 
lockdown.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I consider this complaint should be upheld largely for the reasons set out in 
my provisional decision. I am not persuaded to change my provisional decision based on the 
comments of Allianz in response to it, nor for any other reason.
I will explain why below.
Is Rs claim covered by Rs disease clause?
As I set out in my provisional decision, I consider that there was most likely an occurrence of 
COVID-19 on Rs premises, that Rs disease clause provides cover for losses resulting from 
the occurrence(s) of COVID-19 at its premises, and that the occurrence on Rs premises 
was as equally effective a concurrent cause of the decision to introduce the Regulations as 
the occurrences beyond the limits of Rs premises (which were not an excluded cause). As 
such, I consider Rs claim is covered by Rs disease clause. 
Allianz has said that such an interpretation is not what would be understood by the parties at 
the point in time Rs policy was taken out. In doing so, it has referred to there being a 
consensus of opinion between the FCA, this service, and insurers. However, I disagree that 
this consensus existed. 
Whilst the FCA test case did not seek to directly resolve claims relating to at the premises 
clauses, this does not mean that there was any agreement or consensus by the FCA that 
they would not respond. The FCA test case could not cover all issues and the FCA was not 
seeking to shut out policyholders from arguing there was cover under any clause which was 
not being considered as part of the test case  including at the premises clauses. As the 
FCA explained when it began the test case, the policy wordings selected for inclusion in the test case were those which were representative of the key arguable issues so that the test 
case process was as swift as possible, while providing as much clarity as possible to resolve 
the majority of key issues.
The limitation of the test case to looking only at the key issues was well publicised. And I do 
not consider it is reasonable for Allianz to suggest that the non-inclusion of a particular issue 
or type of clause can be read as an acceptance by all parties that those issues/clauses did 
not offer cover. 
Additionally, the comments made by the FCA in its submissions to the Supreme Court need 
to be understood in their proper context. These comments were made in response to 
insurers arguments and in the context of defending the High Courts conclusion that the 
insured peril under a radius clause was the disease everywhere (provided there was a case 
within the radius). I acknowledge that if the High Courts conclusions on this point had been 
supported by the Supreme Court, the arguments that at the premises clauses provide cover 
in such circumstances would be less persuasive. However, the Supreme Court rejected this 
interpretation, instead deciding that the insured peril was each local case of COVID-19. I do 
not find the FCAs submissions, in relation to contesting a conclusion that the Supreme 
Court did not agree with, to be overly persuasive when considering the current issue. 
Allianz has also referred to the findings of an ombudsman in an earlier case. However, I feel 
I should point out that each case determined by this service is done so on the basis of the 
circumstances of that case. And, whilst we will endeavour to apply our reasoning 
consistently, it is necessary to consider the circumstances of the case referred to  T v 
Liberty Mutual. That decision was reached prior to the Supreme Court judgment, so could 
not take into account the findings and reasoning set out in that judgment. The terms of that 
policy were also different to Rs policy. And that case related to a situation where it had not 
been established that there had been any case of COVID-19 on the policyholders premises, 
so the requirements of the relevant cover provided by the complainants policy had not been 
met. This meant it was not necessary to give full consideration to whether the clause would 
have provided cover had there been a relevant case of COVID-19 on the premises. The 
ombudsmans comments were not relevant to the outcome of the complaint. 
I do not consider that a consensus existed between the FCA, this service and insurers. But, 
even if one did, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I dont think this would 
have been the understanding held by a reasonable reader of Rs policy at the time the policy 
was taken out. 
Ultimately, the determination of whether these clauses offer cover is based on the 
application of the law to the circumstances of a relevant claim. As such, regardless of the 
FCAs submissions, it is the conclusions of the Supreme Court having considered the 
relevant issue of causation that is determinative here. 
And that needs to be applied to the circumstances, taking into account the what can be 
considered to be the understanding of a reasonable person entering the contract in question. 
A reasonable persons understanding of the contract formed by Rs policy would be that if 
there was an occurrence of a relevant disease on Rs premises, which caused a relevant 
authority to take action that led to the interruption of Rs business, the requirements of the 
clause would be met. And their background knowledge that wide-spreading diseases might 
lead to a wide-spread response from the Government.  I note Allianzs reliance on the Supreme Courts comments at para. 71 of its judgment. For 
the sake of clarity, these comments were:
Once it is recognised that the words occurrence of a Notifiable Disease refer to an 
occurrence of illness sustained by a particular person at a particular time and place, it 
is apparent that the argument that the disease clause in RSA 3 applies to cases of 
illness resulting from COVID-19 that occur more than 25 miles away from the 
premises should be rejected. As a matter of plain language, the clause covers only 
cases of illness resulting from COVID-19 that occur within the 25-mile radius 
specified in the clause. That is consistent with the other sub-clauses of the extension. 
In each case they cover events (or the discovery of events) that occur at the 
premises, that is to say at a particular time and place. They include in (a)(i) any 
occurrence of a Notifiable Disease (as defined below) at the Premises. The FCA 
has not sought to suggest that this sub-clause provides cover for all the business 
interruption consequences of a Notifiable Disease, wherever in the country or the 
world it occurs, provided that (and from the time when) there is at least one case of 
the disease at the premises. The language of the policy is not reasonably capable of 
bearing that meaning. By the same token and for similar reasons, the interpretation 
which the FCA has sought to place on sub-clause (a)(iii) is not in our view a tenable 
reading of the policy wording.
However, again, these comments need to be considered in the context with which they were 
made. The Supreme Court was considering the scope of the insured peril, rather than 
matters of causation. And, whilst the Supreme Court said that the scope of the insured peril 
for an at the premises clause was not the entire outbreak even if there was an occurrence on 
the premises, this was also the conclusion it reached in relation to the radius clauses. The 
Supreme Court found that the insured peril for radius clauses was also not the entire 
outbreak provided it came within the radius. There was no distinction between radius and 
premises clauses drawn by the Supreme Court here. And I consider both types of clause 
provide cover for cases within their geographical limits and not cover for cases elsewhere.
The Supreme Courts reasoning  that the insured peril is each case of COVID-19 that falls 
within the geographical limit of the clause  applies equally to at the premises clauses as it 
does to radius clauses. 
Additionally, the Supreme Court did not make any distinction between radius clauses and 
premises clauses when these were combined in the same policy. A single case  even at the 
premises  was considered sufficient for the cover to respond and to cover the losses 
sustained by the insured party as a result of that occurrence. The Supreme Court confirmed 
that a single case can be enough for causation to be established under a radius clause, and 
there would be cover under a clause containing both a premises and radius subclauses if the 
only case of COVID-19, within the geographical limits of the clause, was at the premises.
As has been said, the only significant difference in the construction of the at the premises 
clauses with the radius clauses is the geographical area they specify. This can be undefined, 
the whole country, a 25-mile radius, a 250-metre radius, or the policyholders premises. A 
clause that sets out a smaller area only acts to limit the possibility of a case occurring, and 
so limit the chances of a claim being made. This is a reasonable and understandable 
commercial intent by an underwriter.  
I should also point out here that the premises of some policyholders will be greater than a 
250-metre radius. And it would be illogical to consider that a policy requiring a case of 
COVID-19 within a radius smaller than a policyholders premises would provide cover for the 
consequences of the Regulations, but that this would not be the case if the policy specified a 
larger area  that of the entire premises. As such, I am satisfied that the reasoning of the Supreme Court on causation in relation to 
radius clauses applies equally to at the premises clauses. 
I will note here that I have also carefully considered my provisional decision as it relates to 
the interpretation of the meaning of Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority. In 
doing so, I have taken into account the comments Allianz has made in the course of this 
case. I have also taken into account the decision of Lord Mance in a recent arbitration 
relating to the interpretation of another insurers policy wording. Details of this arbitration can 
be found at https://uk.cntaiping.com/tplresource/cms/www/taiping/file/Award_ANNEXA.zip.  
In that arbitration, Lord Mance said that references in that policy to instructions issued by or 
actions or advice of the Police or other competent local authority did not include measures 
taken or advice given by central government, but only covered action, etc. of the police and 
other local, as opposed to central or national, authorities. However, there are significant 
differences between the construction of the policy Lord Mance considered and Rs policy, 
both in terms of the wording used and the interplay of the relevant parts of the policies. So, 
whilst I have noted the reasoning of Lord Mance, I am satisfied that the interpretation 
reached in my provisional decision on the meaning of Medical Officer of Health for the 
Public Authority in Rs policy is correct for the reasons outlined in my provisional decision. 
I have also noted the comments Lord Mance made in relation to the High Court judgment 
around the term vicinity in relation to the prevention of access clauses. However, not only 
do I not consider it appropriate to compare such prevention of access clauses directly with 
radius or at the premises clauses, the comments made by Lord Mance do not support 
Allianzs argument. So, I do not feel it necessary to expand upon this issue here. 
I have also thought about whether or not the occurrence of COVID-19 on Rs premises was 
something the Government would have taken into account when deciding whether to 
introduce the Regulations. It should be noted here that the Governments decision was 
based on both reported and unreported occurrences. But in this case, the person who had 
been on Rs premises having sustained COVID-19 had reported her symptoms to NHS 111 
prior to the Government making its decision. So, whilst I am unable to confirm this, the actual 
occurrence on Rs premises may have been taken into account by the Government when it 
reached its decision. 
And as the Supreme Court said at paragraph 212 of its judgment:
each of the individual cases of illness resulting from COVID-19 which had 
occurred by the date of any Government action was a separate and equally effective 
cause of that action
In summary, Rs disease clause is a composite one and I remain satisfied that:
An illness caused by COVID-19 was sustained by a person at Rs premises.
This occurrence was a proximate and concurrent cause of the Governments 
decision to introduce the Regulations. 
These Regulations were introduced on the advice or with the approval of a person or 
persons who would be considered the Medical Officer of Health for the Public 
Authority.
These Regulations placed restrictions on Rs premises. And,
These restrictions caused an interruption or interference with Rs business that likely 
caused a loss.As the elements of Rs disease clause have been met in the circumstances, I consider 
Allianz decision to decline Rs claim was not made correctly. And so I consider Allianz did 
not deal with Rs complaint fairly or reasonably.
Is the claim covered until R reopened?
Allianzs response to my provisional decision set out that, even if it could be established Rs 
disease clause responded to the circumstance of the claim, cover would be limited to the 
point when the Government reviewed the need to continue with the measures imposed by 
the Regulations. Allianz felt that the person who had sustained COVID-19 was no longer on 
the premises, and that no other person with COVID-19 had been on the premises, after the 
Regulations were introduced. And that this person may even have recovered by the time the 
Government reviewed the need to continue with the measures. 
At this point it is helpful to refer, as I did in my provisional decision, to regulation 3 of the 
Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020, which says:
(1) For the purposes of these Regulations, the emergency period
(a)starts when these Regulations come into force, and
(b)ends in relation to a restriction or requirement imposed by these 
Regulations on the day and at the time specified in a direction published by 
the Secretary of State terminating the requirement or restriction.
(2) The Secretary of State must review the need for restrictions and requirements 
imposed by these Regulations at least once every 21 days, with the first review being 
carried out by 16th April 2020.
(3) As soon as the Secretary of State considers that any restrictions or requirements 
set out in these Regulations are no longer necessary to prevent, protect against, 
control or provide a public health response to the incidence or spread of infection in 
England with the coronavirus, the Secretary of State must publish a direction 
terminating that restriction or requirement.
(4) A direction published under this regulation may
(a)terminate any one or more requirement or restriction;
(b)terminate a requirement or restriction in relation to a specified business or 
service or a specified description of business or service.
(5) In this regulation, specified means specified in a direction published under this 
regulation.
As I have explained in my provisional decision, the introduction of the emergency period 
was the result of one direction. The next direction introduced by the Government which 
altered this emergency period was that which ended the period. This direction was made on 
4 July 2020. No relevant direction was made on 16 April 2020, nor at any other point of 
review prior to 4 July 2020.
As such, I dont consider it can be said that any new or modified restrictions were imposed 
on Rs premises after March 2020 (insofar as relates to the current claim). I also do not agree with Allianz that the comments of the High Court, that it has referred to, 
show that it is only those cases that fall a few days either side of a particular date that would 
be included in a review of the need to introduce or continue with restrictions. These 
comments by the High Court do not concern the question of causation itself. They were 
made in relation to how a policyholder might demonstrate there having been a case within a 
relevant radius on such a given date, and indicated that reported figures either side of that 
date might be taken into account in proving this. The court was not addressing the data that 
the Government would take into account when deciding whether to introduce, or remove, the 
Regulations and related measures. 
At each point of review, the Government would have been taking into account all the historic 
data, including as to changes in the R-number, and not simply the cases in the week leading 
up to any decision. 
So, I dont consider it is correct for Allianz to say that the occurrence on Rs premises would 
not have been included in such a review, even though that occurrence on Rs premises was 
not continuing and had not occurred within a few days of the review point. 
Taking all of this into account, I am not persuaded that the liability related to Rs claim is 
limited to the period up until the first, or any, review point prior to 4 July 2020. 
Putting things right
I consider Rs complaint should be upheld. In order to put things right, Allianz should:
Reconsider Rs claim on the basis that there was an occurrence on its premises that 
caused an interruption to its business from 23 March 2020 to 4 July 2020.
If, taking into account the remaining terms of the policy, any settlement is due to R 
Allianz should pay this. Any excess that is payable should deducted from the total 
claim amount, before any policy limit is applied.
Allianz should pay R interest on this settlement.
The interest payable on the settlement should be based on R having been deprived of four 
monthly interim payments that should have been made during the course of the claim. 
The first of these payments should have been paid on 23 May 2020 and should have 
covered Rs indemnified losses for the period 23 March 2020 to 22 April 2020 inclusive. 
Subsequent monthly payments should have been based on losses for the periods; 
23 April 2020 to 22 May 2020, 23 May 2020 to 22 June 2020, and 23 June 2020 to 
4 July 2020. These payments should have been made on 23 June 2020, 23 July 2020, and 
4 August 2020 respectively. 
Allianz should pay R interest on the amount of each of these interim payments, for the period 
from the date of each of these interim payments should have been made to the date of 
settlement. 
This interest should be paid at a rate of 8% simple per annum. 
However, Allianz is entitled to deduct from this interest calculation any interest that would be 
payable on the sum of Rs bounce back loan, for the period R had the benefit of this loan. 
Allianz should instead pay R the cost of its borrowing under the bounce back loan, including 
any fees and interest that has accrued at the point of settlement.Allianz has already offered to pay R £500 compensation. Allianz should do this if it has not 
done so already.
My final decision
My financial decision is that I uphold this complaint. Allianz Insurance Plc should put things 
right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C, on behalf of 
R, to accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman