DRN-3703292
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G complain that QIC Europe Ltd has unfairly turned down their claim on their 
home insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs G say their roof lost tiles and suffered damage because of high winds during a 
storm. Their builder told Mr G and Mrs G the damage was the same as at three other 
properties in the vicinity hed worked on and was consistent with storm damage. 
So Mr G and Mrs G made a claim on their home insurance policy. They want QIC to 
reimburse them for the cost of the repairs their builder carried out.
QIC turned down Mr G and Mrs Gs claim. QIC says the mortar verge on Mr G and Mrs Gs 
roof had deteriorated gradually over time. It says this deterioration caused the damage, 
which the high winds highlighted. QIC says its turned down Mr G and Mrs Gs claim 
because their policy excludes cover for any gradual or maintenance-related loss.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr G and Mrs G complained to us. The investigator who looked 
at their complaint didnt uphold it because she didnt think there was enough evidence to say 
the storm caused the damage.
Mr G and Mrs G disagree. They say theyve lived in their home for 21 years without incident 
and the roof was subjected to storm-force winds which caused the damage. 
So Mr G and Mrs Gs complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr G and Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
For complaints about storm damage claims, we look at three main issues:
1.    Was there a storm?
2.    Is the damage claimed for consistent with the damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no, were likely to say a claim for storm damage 
wont succeed.
In Mr G and Mrs Gs case, QIC hasnt disputed there was a storm. So the answer to the first 
question is yes. And the damage for which Mr G and Mrs G are claiming  lost tiles and 
other roof damage  is consistent with the damage a storm typically causes. So the answer 
to the second question is yes.
But, based on the evidence I have, I think the answer to the third question  was the storm 
the main cause of the damage?  is no. And in considering this issue, Ive borne in mind 
that, in making their claim, it is for Mr G and Mrs G  not QIC  to show the damage was 
most likely caused mainly by a storm. 
Ive started by looking at the evidence QIC has relied on to turn down Mr G and Mrs Gs 
claim. The field surveyor QIC sent to Mr G and Mrs Gs home to assess the damage says in 
his report:
the mortar verges are showing signs of failure with large areas with no mortar verges 
present indicating that the verges had failed, and this has allowed the high winds to get 
under the roof tiles and dislodge them, no signs of a single one-off event.
The field surveyors report includes a number of photos, and some of them are close-ups 
showing no mortar at points along the verge. In his report, the surveyor says he wasnt able 
to access the rear of Mr G and Mrs Gs home because they werent there and also because 
scaffolding had already gone up. But he says hes been able to assess what was required.
When Mr G and Mrs G disputed the field surveyors findings, a QIC in-house surveyor 
reviewed Mr G and Mrs Gs claim. The report from the in-house surveyor says:
Having reviewed the images we have of the mortar verge, its clear that the mortar to this 
verge is in a poor condition due to a natural breakdown of the mortar over time. The wind 
has highlighted this poor condition of the mortar verge and where the mortar has 
deteriorated and crumbled away in sections, tiles have been able to be dislodged by the 
winds as they [are] no longer securely held to the roof. Therefore, the proximate cause
of this damage is the deterioration of the mortar verge as opposed to the winds.
In contrast to QIC, Mr G and Mrs G say the damage to their roof was caused by the storm. 
And they say other properties in the vicinity suffered similar damage, although theyve given 
us no evidence of this. They have a report from their builder in which he says he visited Mr G 
and Mrs Gs home the day after the storm and, once the scaffolding was put up, got a closer 
look at the damage. In his report, he says:
In my opinion damage had been caused by the winds and the storm which removed the 
tiles from the sand and cement verge, this had dislodged 10-12 tiles in this area.
Mr G and Mrs G have also sent us photos showing the damaged area of the roof, with 
mortar missing from part of the rear verge. They say their builders report and photos give a 
more accurate representation of the damage than QICs. 
My role isnt to decide what caused the damage to Mr G and Mrs Gs roof. Its to decide if 
QIC has acted fairly and reasonably in turning down their claim. I dont find                          
Mr G and Mrs Gs builders opinion on how the damage happened  essentially, that the high 
winds lifted the tiles  as persuasive as QICs surveyors  that missing and weakened 
mortar (which its photos show) meant some tiles werent held to the roof firmly and so were 
dislodged by the high winds. 
So, all in all, Mr G and Mrs Gs evidence and comments arent enough to persuade me 
theyve shown  as they need to for their storm damage claim to succeed  that a storm was 
most likely the main cause of the damage to their roof. Mr G and Mrs Gs policy contains a 
general exclusion for any gradual or maintenance-related loss. QIC has relied on evidence 
from its experts that the damage to Mr G and Mrs Gs roof was probably caused gradually, rather than mainly by the storm, and so I think it has acted fairly and reasonably in applying 
the policy exclusion to turn down Mr G and Mr Gs storm damage claim.
Mr G and Mrs G didnt take out QICs optional accidental damage cover as part of their 
buildings insurance. But QIC says its looked at whether it shouldve accepted                      
Mr G and Mrs Gs claim under any of the other heads of cover they had under their policy. 
QIC says none apply to their claim. Ive done the same and agree with QIC.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr G and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman