DRN-2127008
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car he obtained through a hire purchase agreement with Specialist 
Motor Finance Limited is not of satisfactory quality. He wants Specialist Motor Finance to 
accept his rejection of the car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, and were set out in my 
provisional decision, so I am not going to describe them again here.
My provisional decision
I was minded to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I set out my reasons as follows:
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and 
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, 
this service can consider complaints relating to it. Specialist Motor Finance is the 
supplier of goods under this agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their 
quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term 
that the quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, I 
would have to be persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a 
breach of contract has taken place.
In deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are 
its age and mileage when it was supplied, and how long after supply the fault(s) 
materialised. The car in this case was around three years old and had a mileage of 
around 17,100 when it was supplied.
Mr B says the clutch failed around two months after the car was supplied. Mr B 
reported the problem to the credit broker, and it authorised a third party garage to 
carry out the required repairs and to pay for these as a gesture of goodwill. But the 
repairs werent successful. Mr B reported that the gears were sticking when he 
collected the car, and this developed into juddering.
The credit broker referred him back to the garage that carried out the repairs and it 
collected the car and investigated. But it said it couldnt find a fault.
When Mr B complained to Specialist Motor Finance, it arranged an independent 
report. The independent engineer concluded that:
On the balance of probability taking into consideration the short time and mileage 
elapsed since the point of finance inception and that previous repairs have been 
attempted the conditions would have been developing at that time and would be the 
responsibility of the supplying agent.
I find it surprising that Specialist Motor Finance does not appear to have accepted 
the conclusions of the report. I think the report is clear that there was, more likely 
than not, a fault when the car was supplied, that the repair was not successful, and 
that the fault remains.
I have taken into account that Specialist Motor Finance says the actions of Mr B may 
have caused the fault  either his driving style or the modifications he made to the 
car. We invited Specialist Motor Finance to provide independent evidence to support 
its arguments, but it didnt provide any. In the circumstances, I find no reason not to 
place reliance on the independent report  which makes no mention of modifications 
or driving style being the cause of the fault.
The fault occurred within a couple of months of the car being supplied and the 
independent engineer concluded that the fault was present or developing when the 
car was supplied. So I find the car wasn't of satisfactory quality.
This doesn't automatically mean Mr B has a right to reject the car. The Consumer 
Rights Act allows the supplier an opportunity to carry out a repair. The garage 
authorised by the credit broker carried out repairs. But its clear from the independent 
report that these werent successful. I find that there is still a fault with the car and 
that this is linked to the clutch failing in the few months after the car was supplied.
So I find its fair that Specialist Motor Finance should now accept Mr B's rejection of 
the car.
In arriving at this conclusion, I've taken into account that Mr B acted in breach of the 
hire purchase terms and conditions when he modified the car by fitting a tow bar. But 
this doesnt change my overall conclusion, because Ive found that the car wasnt 
satisfactory when it was supplied.
In accepting Mr B's rejection of the car, Specialist Motor Finance will need to cancel 
the agreement with nothing further for him to pay, removing it from his credit file. It 
should also refund the cash deposit Mr B paid, plus interest.
Mr B has had limited use of the car. Hes not really been able to drive it since it was 
first taken to the garage at the end of July 2019 for repair. I understand he was 
provided with a courtesy car, but its not clear whether this was just during the initial 
repair or whether hes had use of one since. We asked Mr B to let us know how long 
hes been without a driveable car, but he hasnt responded to us. I would invite both 
parties to clarify this in response to my provisional decision. I currently think it would 
be fair for Mr B to pay for the first two months of the agreement and for Specialist 
Motor Finance to refund all other payments made, with interest. But the number of 
months to be repaid could change if I see evidence that Mr B was provided with a 
courtesy car after he collected his car on or around 29 July 2019.
I think that our investigator's recommendation for compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable, particularly taking into account that this 
was a difficult period for Mr B personally and not having use of the car would have 
made things more difficult for him.
Mr B agreed with my provisional decision.Specialist Motor Finance didnt agree and replied in some detail. It said, in summary, that:
Mr B doesnt have the right to reject the car because he is in breach of the terms and 
conditions (by modifying the car).
Allowing additional weight to be towed by the car is a major factor contributing to the 
deterioration of the clutch. And Mr B continued to drive the car, towing a trailer, which 
led to considerable damage.
Mr B hasnt provided evidence to show that he checked the car handbook, and other 
available guidance, to ensure he wasnt exceeding the towing weight capacity of the 
car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I have considered what Specialist Motor Finance said in response to my provisional 
decision. But this does not change my conclusions. I have already explained that I took into 
account that Mr B had modified the car in reaching my conclusion. And, because Speciailist 
Motor Finances points about modification hadnt been mentioned in the independent report 
it provided, I invited it to provide further independent evidence to support its arguments. It 
hasnt done this, so I find no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions. I find that the car 
was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied and that Specialist Motor Finance should 
accept Mr Bs rejection of the car.
Putting things right
Specialist Motor Finance Limited should:
1. Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
2. Collect the car at no cost to Mr B.
3. Refund the cash deposit paid of £200, plus 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
4. Refund the payments made from August 2019 to date, plus interest.
5. Pay Mr W £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
6. Remove the finance agreement from Mr W's credit file.
Specialist Motor Finance Limited should add 8% simple interest to payments 3 and 4.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Specialist Motor Finance Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Specialist Motor Finance Limited must give Mr W a certificate showing how much 
tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Specialist Motor Finance Limited should pay 
compensation and take the action detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman