DRN-4039956
The complaint
M  a business  complains about poor service it received from HSBC UK Bank Plc in 
connection with its business account.
What happened
M had a business account with HSBC. It subsequently became locked out of its internet 
banking in around 2018.
To reactivate access to the internet banking, on 29 January 2019, M completed a business 
internet banking application form. An activation code was emailed to M, and a welcome 
letter was sent to the address HSBC held for M on file.
On 17 March 2019, Ms director called HSBC and said that he had received the activation 
code, but he had not received a welcome letter. During the call, M was not able to pass
HSBCs security checks and telephone access to the account was also then blocked. HSBC 
said that Ms director could attend a branch with photo identification. However, as Ms 
director was not in the UK, he was not able to do this. Alternatively, HSBC said that M would 
need to fill out a form online instead.
On 19 March 2019, M complained to HSBC. M said a welcome pack had been requested 
twice, but nothing had been received from HSBC. In the complaint, M said that in order to 
access its accounts, HSBC was requiring information that had been provided 20-years ago.
In response, HSBC said that M would need to fill out a registration form to reset the security 
details for telephone banking. It said it would arrange for another welcome letter to be sent 
out, so that M could access its internet banking again.
M did not receive this final response letter and so it complained to HSBC again on 3 May 
2019. Ms director said that internet access to the business bank account was still blocked.
HSBC responded on 16 May 2019. It said that it had sent another welcome pack out on 20 
March 2019. It said it had no record of a telephone banking application form being 
completed. Although M had requested contact by email or telephone, HSBC still sent this 
response by post on 16 May 2019. M says it did not receive the response.
M then completed a telephone banking application form. HSBC says telephone access was 
restored. The same telephone banking application form appears to have been sent again. 
However, this time, it was returned to M because HSBC said it had not been signed.
On 15 October 2019, HSBC then sent a letter to M to say its account appeared to be inactive 
because no payments had been made from the account for over 12-months. HSBC said that 
in order for the account to remain active, M would need to place regular debit and credit 
transactions. HSBC said that if no transactions were recorded by 19 December 2019, the 
account would be suspended or closed. No transactions were made because M could not 
actually access the account and so the account as a whole appears to have been 
suspended on 19 December 2019.
M called HSBC again on 27 January 2020. Similar security questions were asked and HSBC 
said incorrect answers were provided again. No information about the account was provided 
to M during this telephone call.
Seemingly at the suggestion of HSBC, M tried to set up a new signatory to the account in 
order that they could then attend an HSBC branch to unlock access to the account. The 
application for a new signatory was rejected by HSBC as it said the criteria for doing this 
were not met.
M complained to HSBC again, but HSBC did not uphold the complaint. M then complained to 
this service.
In the meantime, M then completed an account closure form, which was received by HSBC
on 17 April 2021. However, the account was not closed until September 2022 after our 
investigator intervened. HSBC then offered to refund the fees that M had been charged from 
17 April 2021.
Our investigator ultimately didnt think the complaint should be upheld. M disagreed with that 
view and so the matter was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision because I intended to tell HSBC to put things right for M. I 
said: 
Firstly, I can see from the complaint form that M has requested compensation for the 
time wasted by its director and the family member. However, I just want to make it 
clear what our powers are in awarding compensation in cases like this. The 
complainant in this case is M a limited company. That means I cannot award 
compensation for any distress or inconvenience that has been incurred by its 
directors or anyone else in a personal capacity. I can, however, make an award if I 
find HSBC made an error and this has caused inconvenience to the business itself.
Ive considered whether it was fair for HSBC to effectively lock Ms access to internet 
banking. HSBC says internet access to the account was removed because the 
account had not been used for some time. M says it was regularly logging into the 
account, but HSBCs systems did not recognise this because it was using an 
overseas VPN.
The terms and conditions relating to the use of HSBCs business accounts say:
[HSBC] can end any or all of your users access to Business Internet 
Banking at anytime and without notice if:
Your users havent used business internet banking for three 
months.
I know M says that it was regularly accessing its internet banking, but I havent been 
provided with any evidence to suggest that was the case. For example, it is not clear 
to me that the account was regularly being used. In those circumstances, if HSBC 
had no record of M using its internet banking for three months, I cant say it was 
unreasonable for it to end access to that service. I agree with our investigator to the 
extent that HSBCs actions were in line with its terms and conditions here.
I can see that M did apply again for internet banking on 29 January 2019. Two pieces 
of information were required for M to be able to access this service again  a 
welcome letter and an activation code. The activation code was sent by email, which 
I understand M received. HSBC then sent the welcome letter out to M at the address 
it held on file.
I know at this stage that Ms director was overseas. I can also see that a different 
address was included on the internet banking application form. However, I can see 
why HSBC would have sent the welcome letter by post and without further 
verification of the new address, I dont think it was wrong for HSBC to send the 
welcome letter to the postal address it held onfile. I understand M did not receive this 
document straightaway, but it appears this, along with other welcome letters, may have been later received. I say this because upon listening to the telephone call 
between M and HSBC on 27 January 2020, Ms director referred to receiving a pile 
of welcome letters.
Ive next looked at the issue around telephone access to Ms account. Ive listened to 
the telephone call of 17 March 2019 between M and HSBC. I know M thought HSBC 
was unreasonable in asking these security questions. M said HSBC had asked it to 
confirm information that was 20-years old. However, having listened to that call, I 
disagree with Ms recollection here. It seems to me that the questions that were 
asked related to the (then) current operation of the account and some of Ms basic 
contact details. As M apparently couldnt answer those questions, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for HSBC to restrict telephone access to the account in those 
circumstances.
That said, there did appear to be some confusion during this telephone call. M 
thought HSBC had said that M would need to set up its internet banking from scratch 
and set up all of its payments and payees again. I dont think thats what HSBC was 
trying to say to M. But before HSBC had the opportunity to clarify what it meant, M 
appears to have abruptly disconnected the call.
M says it was later informed by HSBC that answers to its security questions had 
been deleted in a software update. I know M strongly believes that to be the case, 
but I havent seen any evidence to support what M genuinely believes to have taken 
place in this regard.
HSBC says it cannot see evidence of a system update.
I can see M did complete a telephone banking registration form in August 2019. 
Telephone access was then restored, but I cannot see that this was communicated to 
M. There appears to have been more confusion in this regard because HSBC later 
rejected the same application form sometime later by saying the form had not been 
signed. In any event, it appears this telephone was restricted again when Ms director 
seemingly failed security again in January 2020.
In any event, HSBC then wrote to M to say it would close or suspend the account if 
there was no activity before 19 December 2019. It said if M wanted the account to be 
reinstated after this date, a visit to an HSBC branch would be required. In sending 
this letter, HSBC wrote to the address it held on file. I know Ms director was no 
longer at this address, but I havent seen evidence to suggest an alternative address 
had been verified by HSBC at that point. I dont think sending the letter to the last 
known address was wholly unreasonable in these circumstances. The account was 
indeed suspended on 19 December 2019.
M then tried to add an additional signatory to the account in order that this person 
could then reinstate the account. I know M has complained strongly about the issues 
arising from the additional signatory request. I can see that a family member of Ms 
director attended an HSBC branch in person to apply, but that application was then 
rejected. M says this was because HSBC wrote to it at the address where the 
director was not present. But from the evidence Ive seen it appears to have been 
rejected because the relevant criteria for this signatory were not met. M complains 
that the family members time was wasted in following HSBCs advice. However, as I 
said above, my provisional view is that I cannot award compensation for the time 
spent personally by the family member if there was no impact on M as a business. I 
have not been provided with any evidence to suggest that M lost out financially 
because of the time spent by the family member in this regard.
However, as I said, Ms account was suspended on 19 December 2019. Despite that, 
account fees appear to have been charged after that date. If Ms account had been 
suspended, my provisional view is that it is not fair or reasonable to charge M for an account it could no longer use. I intend to require HSBC to refund any account fees 
charged from 19 December 2019 onwards.
I know Ms director thought that all account fees should have been refunded from the 
date internet access was restricted. However, my provisional view is that although 
there were difficulties accessing the account from 2018, it was still in operation up to 
19 December 2019.
It is not in doubt that Ms director feels strongly about this complaint. However, Im
provisionally satisfied that HSBC appears to have acted within its terms and 
conditions when it suspended internet access to the account back in 2018. I havent 
seen anything to suggest that the relevant welcome letters werent sent to M at the 
last verified address for it to regain access to the account.
Similarly, I cant say it was wrong for HSBC to suspend access to the account 
through the telephone when Ms director apparently failed basic security questions. 
That said, I think HSBC may caused some delay in giving M instructions on how to 
access the account by telephone. I say this because the written instructions on how 
to do so were enclosed in the final response letter sent to the director by post. When 
HSBC knew the director had not received this information, I have not seen any 
attempts made by HSBC to provide that information again. Had this been done, it is 
possible that M may have been able to restore telephone access to its accounts. 
HSBC then reinstated telephone access, but I cannot see M was notified of this. My 
provisional view is that HSBC will need to pay £150 to compensate M for the 
confusion here. I can provisionally see how it would have caused inconvenience to M 
as a business.
I further note that although HSBC received an instruction to close Ms business 
account on 17 April 2021, no action was taken in this regard until the intervention of 
our investigator. I understand the account was eventually closed and funds refunded 
to M on 12 September 2022. HSBC said it didnt think M had sent the closure form to 
the correct department of the bank. However, as that form had been received by 
HSBC, my provisional view is that it should not have taken over a year to close the 
account. HSBC will need to take action to put that right.
In addition to the £150 compensation set out above, I also said I intended to tell HSBC to 
refund the account fees that were charged after the account was suspended in December 
2019, along with 8% interest. In addition to that, I said that I intended to tell HSBC to pay 8% 
interest on the account balance from the point M sent its account closure form to HSBC. 
I asked the parties to provide me with any further information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider by 31 March 2023. Both parties responded in advance of that date. HSBC indicated 
it agreed with my provisional decision. 
In summary, Ms response was: 
That it had been unable to use its account and pay bills from 
February 2018;
It could not understand why I had not directed HSBC to personally 
compensate Ms director and his family member; 
HSBC had told M to contact this service in order to recover its 
funds and informed M that its system failed to register overseas 
logins. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have responded before the date set out in my provisional decision, I am able 
to issue my final decision now. 
Ive thought carefully about the issues raised by M, but Im not persuaded to depart from my 
provisional findings. 
I know M said it could not understand why I was not telling HSBC to compensate its director 
and family member personally. It may help if I explain that when Im considering complaints, 
I am bound by the rules that apply to this service. Those rules are set by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (the FCA) and are known as the DISP rules. A copy can be found online 
in the FCAs handbook. 
DISP 2.7 says that this service can only consider a complaint if it is brought by an eligible 
complainant. For the purposes of the DISP rules, M is a business and so it is M that is the 
eligible complainant as set out at DISP 2.7.3. 
It follows then that when Im considering a complaint, I have to look at the impact any 
mistake had on that eligible complainant. In this case, that is M and not the director or family 
member. M is a separate legal entity to the director and the family member. I cannot look at 
the impact on them unless such an impact would have affected M as a business. Thats why 
I said that HSBC would need to pay £150 to M because I can see how the issues arising 
from telephone access could have been inconvenient to M as a business. 
Ive thought about the other issues raised by M in its response. But having done so, Im not 
persuaded that further compensation should be paid. 
So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I require HSBC to take action to put 
things right for M. 
Putting things right
HSBC must take action to put things right for M. It must: 
Pay £150 to compensate M for the errors I have identified above;
Calculate and refund to M all the account fees it incurred from 19 December 2019 to 
date;
Calculate and pay 8% simple interest on each account fee from 19 December2019 
from the date M paid it until the date M gets that money back; and
Calculate and pay 8% simple interest on Ms account balance from 17 April 2021 
until the date the account was closed.
My final decision
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to put things right as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman