DRN-4415015
The complaint
Miss C and Mr P complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with a claim 
he made on his travel insurance policy after his flight was cancelled by the airline. 
For ease of reference, and as hes been most involved with this complaint, Ill refer to Mr P 
throughout my decision. 
What happened
Mr P has a travel insurance benefit with Aviva through his bank account. He pays a monthly 
fee which provides him with a number of benefits including travel insurance. Mr P says hes 
had the account for around 14 years. 
Mr P and his family were due to take a flight in April 2023. Mr P says after they went through 
security they were told their flight had been cancelled. 
Mr P says he wasnt given an explanation as to why the flight was cancelled and there was 
no airline staff available to speak to. 
Mr P was able to find out that the earliest return flight was going to be in three days time 
with the same airline. Unfortunately that flight wasnt going to be convenient for Mr P since 
he had to get back to the UK for a prior engagement. 
As a result he booked three tickets back with a different airline which was leaving the 
following morning. This flight was reimbursed by the airline at a later date. 
Mr P says they werent compensated by the airline for the return element of the original flight 
bearing in mind the contract had been broken; and the airline hadnt provided Mr P with a 
return service. 
Mr P was inconvenienced and unclear about what he could do when his flight home was 
cancelled. He and his family slept on the floor of the airport before checking in for the new 
flight back the following day.
On his return Mr P filed a claim with his travel insurer. Aviva said it was only prepared to 
reimburse him £15 for the taxi he took home from the airport after deducting the applicable 
£100 excess. 
Mr P says Aviva would have had to pay out more if theyd waited for the next available flight 
with the original airline since it would have involved three days in a hotel plus meals. Mr P 
says hes being penalised for mitigating his loss and trying to get his family back home as 
soon as possible, especially since they were travelling with their small child. 
Mr P says he should be compensated for half the cost of his return ticket given he paid for a 
service he didnt receive together with the full taxi fare without the excess being deducted. 
So he complained. 
Aviva said the additional travel costs were reimbursed by the airline, and the claim for the 
taxi fare had been agreed under the unexpected costs section of the policy. Aviva said there 
was no cover for the original return flight that was cancelled since the delay incurred was 
less than 12 hours. It said the Delayed Transport section of the policy only offers a benefit if 
the delay was more than 12 hours and, since it wasnt, theres no payment due. Aviva said it 
could only consider the claim under the unexpected costs section of the policy which 
provides cover for expenses Mr P had to pay to get home as a result of the cancelled flight  
there is no cover for the unused flight. But the airline refunded the additional flight expenses 
which only left the taxi fare. Aviva also said there was no provision for compensation for 
inconvenience in the policy. 
Mr P wasnt satisfied with the response he received from Aviva so he referred his complaint 
to this service. One of our investigators looked into things for him. She said having 
considered the matter she wasnt upholding the complaint. She said the policy covered 
additional costs to get home. But the flights were reimbursed by the airline so that only left 
the taxi fare to be reimbursed which Aviva did; less the applicable excess. Aviva said the 
original return flight wasnt an additional cost and so wasnt covered by the policy. The 
investigator said if Mr P could evidence that the soonest flight the airline could offer was in 
three days then Aviva should reconsider a payment under the delayed transport section of 
the policy. 
Aviva said the policy provides cover if transport is delayed for at least 12 hours. If Mr P had 
waited until the next flight he would have been delayed by three days but he booked an 
alternative flight the following day. Since the actual delay was just over nine hours no benefit 
is payable. 
Mr P provided this service with a copy of correspondence from the airline that confirmed it 
was unable to provide a suitable flight within 24 hours of the disruption. So our investigator 
considered the additional evidence and said it would be fair and reasonable for a payment to 
be made under the delayed transport section of the policy in the amount of £200. She said 
Mr P had been inconvenienced in having to book an alternative flight, sleeping at the airport 
with their child, and returning to a different airport to the one they departed from. She said Mr 
P had mitigated his losses and would have been entitled to this benefit if he hadnt made 
alternative travel arrangements. 
Aviva disagreed. It said the delayed benefit payment wasnt for a delay that may have 
occurred. Aviva said it is a specific benefit for specific cover which is only triggered if the 
delay is significant  over 12 hours. It is not an indemnity or compensation amount and can 
be claimed even when the airline has awarded compensation. Aviva said Mr P didnt 
continue the trip, he curtailed it by a different route. And while this was understandable it 
didnt mean the policy benefit applied. Because Aviva didnt agree the complaint has come 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My starting point for this complaint is to look at the terms and conditions of the policy to see 
what they say about what is covered. Unexpected costs
In section C under the heading Unexpected costs it says,
Well cover unexpected additional travel and accommodation costs to allow the insured 
person to continue their trip or get home at the end of their trip, if their pre-paid travel plans 
are disrupted for the following reasons:
4. the insured persons pre-booked travel arrangements are cancelled or delayed for 
more than 12 hours from the time shown on their ticket or diverted after departure. 
Mr Ps flight was cancelled and he made alternative arrangements to get home. He 
purchased new flights and the cost of these were refunded by the airline. There was an 
additional taxi expense which Aviva agreed to pay under the unexpected costs section of the 
policy, subject to the excess. Excess is payable on accepted claims under the terms of the 
policy and so I cant reasonably ask Aviva to waive this. So I think Aviva acted fairly and 
reasonably, and in line with the terms of the policy in its handling of this part of Mr Ps claim. 
Aviva explained there was no cover for the cost of the original flight and so it declined that 
part of the claim. And I think this is right since the airline refunded Mr P the additional costs 
of getting home. 
Delayed transport 
Under the delayed transport section of the policy it says,
Well pay £50 for each full 12-hour period an insured persons pre-booked transport is 
delayed if they decide to continue the trip. Well work out the length of the delay from the 
date and time of the scheduled departure. 
Aviva considered a payment under this section of the policy but said the delay incurred was 
within 12 hours and this section offers a benefit payment if the customer is delayed for more 
than 12 hours. And so it declined this part of the claim. 
So Ive thought about how long Mr P would have waited if he hadnt made alternative travel 
arrangements. Mr P has provided evidence that the airline was unable to provide an 
alternative flight for at least 24 hours and had they waited, theyd have been waiting for a 
longer period of time. And this might have allowed them to receive a fixed cash benefit for 
travel delay under the terms and conditions of his policy.
Ive thought about this situation very carefully. Aviva said the delayed transport section of the 
policy is a specific benefit for specific cover which is only triggered if the delay is significant  
over 12 hours. So, the policy does provide cover under this section for delays of more than 
12 hours. And Mr P has provided evidence from the airline that confirms there were no 
flights available for at least 24 hours. Mr Ps own evidence is that there were no flights 
available with the airline for at least three days  although I havent seen any independent 
evidence corroborating this. 
I think Mr P has reduced the insurers potential loss by making his own arrangements home. 
If he hadnt then Aviva would have been looking at paying a minimum of 24 hours delay 
benefit. If Mr P had waited for the next available flight he would have been entitled to claim 
additional travel and accommodation costs under the policy until his return. 
So, Im therefore of the view Aviva needs to pay the delay benefit in addition to the taxi fare. 
There is no cover for the cancelled flight but the policy does provide a travel delay benefit. It would be fair and reasonable for Aviva to cover this bearing in mind the facts of this case, in 
particular the mitigation of loss, and the breadth of the policy wording. 
Putting things right
Since the evidence provided confirms delay of at least 24 hours then I think its fair that 
Aviva pay this under the delayed transport of the policy. Should there be any dispute over 
the settlement amount this would need to be considered as a separate complaint. 
So, Aviva needs to reassess the claim under the delayed transport section of the policy and 
pay Mr P the benefit he and his family are entitled to. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above Im upholding Mr Ps complaint and direct Aviva Insurance 
Limited to resolve the complaint by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman