DRN-1695965
Complaint
Mr B says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France IARD 
have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this 
decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mr B bought the policy in 1998, at the same time as taking out a store card. It covered him in 
case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Having done that, Ive not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr Bs store card application had a section for PPI, amongst other optional extras. It gave an 
overview of what the policy was for, then had a box which could be ticked if Mr B wanted to 
buy PPI, or which could be left blank if he didnt want it. The box was ticked and Mr B signed 
the form to confirm his choices. Ive not seen any wider problems with the sales process 
from the time, nor any evidence which shows that Mr Bs form was tampered with here. So 
I think its most likely that AXA made Mr B aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, and 
that he chose to take it at the time  though I can completely understand if he no longer 
recalls doing so after so many years.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B, so they didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
They did have to give Mr B enough information to decide if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Mr B about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. Here, it looks like Mr B chose to take out the policy, which indicates he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what hes told us of his circumstances at the time, it looks like Mr B 
was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. It 
wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits and offered him more comprehensive cover. 
And while I understand his family wouldve been happy to help, there was always the chance 
theyd be unable to help when needed. And this policy meant he wouldnt have to ask 
anyone else to pay his store card if he fell on difficult times. So the policy could have been 
useful for Mr B in case something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly 
basis, so Mr B could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better 
information about the PPI was likely to have put him off taking it out.My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman