DRN-3438466
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) failed to refund a transaction she didnt 
recognise.
What happened
Mrs B explained that she received a call from a person who she thought was from Halifax. 
She answered several questions about her account and was told there had been suspicious 
transactions made from it. Mrs B was further told she needed to move her money to another 
account to protect it (safe account).
A transaction was then made from her account to a new account that had been set up in her 
name at another bank. Mrs B then called Halifax to discuss her account, but they said no call 
had been made by them and it appeared that Mrs B had been scammed.
Mrs B denied making the transaction and said shed logged in to her mobile banking app to 
check her overdraft during the call. Mrs B went on to explain that she didnt notice anything 
unusual about her account and hadnt given the caller her security details that would be 
needed to log in to her account and use it themselves.
Halifax looked into the matter and contacted the receiving bank about the payment. Halifaxs 
systems recorded the transaction had been authorised using Mrs Bs mobile banking system 
from her registered device (mobile phone). It further showed that various warnings had been 
displayed and that a check of the receiving account had identified it wasnt in Mrs Bs name. 
The audit showed the payment was confirmed using Mrs Bs biometric information. 
Halifax believed Mrs B had authorised the payment and didnt offer a refund. The disputed 
transaction had used a portion of Mrs Bs overdraft and charges were incurred. Halifax 
eventually refunded some of them but maintained that they were owed a debt due to some 
of the overdraft being outstanding. Mrs B believed Halifax had harassed her about the debt.
Ms B complained to Halifax about the situation and it was investigated by their complaints 
section who didnt uphold it. Mrs B remained unhappy with how Halifax had handled her 
situation and brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent 
review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who asked both parties for information 
about the transaction.
Mrs B explained that she hadnt authorised the transaction and she believed her phone had 
been mirrored by a scammer through the dark web after being advised of this possibility 
by an anti-fraud organisation. Mrs B was left upset by the loss of her funds and how Halifax 
had handled her situation. Mrs B told our service that it had also affected her medically. Mrs 
B was critical of Halifaxs systems and believed they should have provided a warning about 
the payment or stopped it because it was suspicious. 
Halifax provided details of the payment including the audit log of Mrs Bs mobile banking 
access. Our investigator thought it was reasonable for Halifax to hold Mrs B liable for the 
payment and didnt uphold her complaint.
Mrs B repeated that she hadnt authorised the payment and that it was unusual and should 
have been identified by Halifax. She remained critical of how Halifax had dealt with the 
outstanding debt and didnt think Halifax had followed up the payment with the receiving 
bank with enough urgency. 
Mrs B disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review of her complaint which has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My focus is on what I think the key issues are as our rules allow me to do this and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs Bs experience when she received a suspicious call is a fairly typical experience of 
someone who is the victim of a scam. That is receiving a call from her bank who told Mrs B 
that her account was at risk and she needed to move her funds to a safe account set up in 
her name. What is unusual about this complaint is that Mrs B has denied making such a 
payment and believes it was then carried out through her phone being mirrored or cloned 
through the dark web. 
Usually, the caller (scammer) is trying to persuade the account holder to move the money 
themselves because theyre unable to breach the accounts security. If Mrs B had sent the 
funds herself, the complaint would have been dealt with under a specific set of rules 
designed to address scams such as this type (which is how Halifax investigated her 
complaint). But here, Mrs B has denied making the transaction, which means the 
investigation of it is undertaken with slightly different rules and the first matter for me to 
consider is whether Mrs B was responsible for the transaction or not.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that Halifax can hold Mrs B liable for the 
disputed payment if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that she made it or 
authorised it.
Halifax can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mrs B authorised the 
transactions, but Halifax cannot say that the use of the internet banking facility conclusively 
proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Halifax can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mrs Bs account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. 
To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed transactions. It shows 
that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools issued to Mrs B. Ill now 
need to consider the information provided by both parties to determine whether theres 
sufficient evidence to hold Mrs B responsible for the disputed transactions or not.
Mrs B described opening her banking app on her phone and checking her account when 
speaking with the caller (scammer). She explained that she didnt carry out any action to set 
up or authorise the payment. Mrs B explained she didnt see any other activity on her phone 
and later believed, after being advised by another organisation, that her phone had been 
mirrored or cloned.Halifaxs evidence shows that Mrs B used her phone to set up the payment, which included 
a confirmation of payee check that was returned as no match (because the account was in 
a different name than Mrs Bs). The payment was then authorised using Mrs Bs biometric 
data. Halifax have no record of any other device accessing her account.
So here we have the situation that starts out as a typical attempt to scam someone and get 
them to move their funds, but then turns into a sophisticated hack from the dark web. I 
dont think that two very different types of fraud are the likely explanation here. Theres no 
evidence of any other device recorded against the activity on Mrs Bs account, and the 
payment is authorised using Mrs Bs biometrics  something I think is unlikely to be carried 
out by a hacker/scammer. The devices location (IP address) also remains consistent 
throughout the activity on the account.
If the answer was a sophisticated dark web attack that shielded the information from Mrs B, 
Id question why a hacker would use a false name for the account? It wouldnt make sense if 
a hacker was able to disguise their activity from the account user to then use a false name 
for the account. Theyd likely know this would return a no match on the confirmation of 
payee and increase the risk of the transaction coming to the attention of the bank. Much 
easier to put the real account name on the transfer to reduce any risk, especially as Mrs B 
would be unaware of what was happening with her account. 
I appreciate that Mrs B was told of the dark web hack by another organisation, but as far as 
Im aware they didnt carry out an investigation of the circumstances or have opportunity to 
review any evidence. I dont know on what basis they made the comment, but its not 
supported by the evidence Ive been able to review.
Overdraft
The transaction took Mrs Bs account into its overdraft which then incurred additional 
charges. Halifax refunded some of these charges but continued to seek repayment of the 
overdraft. Mrs B was under the impression that Halifax would stop chasing the outstanding 
debt, but they continued to contact Mrs B about it. Ive reviewed the contacts carried out by 
Halifax and their advice to Mrs B about making a token payment until the complaint was 
finalised. Overall, I dont think Halifax acted unreasonably when they sought repayment of 
the outstanding overdraft.
Receiving Bank
Mrs B was critical of Halifaxs action after she reported the transaction, in particular their 
contact with the receiving bank. Having looked at the details of activity by Halifax, they 
contacted the receiving bank within a few hours of Mrs B reporting the loss to her account. 
Because Halifax investigated her issue under the scam rules, contact with the receiving bank 
is a critical part of that, which was carried out here. So, I dont think that Halifax delayed any 
contact with the receiving bank.
Ive also thought about Mrs Bs comments regarding the suspicious nature of the transaction 
and whether Halifax should have stopped it. I do recognise it was higher than her normal 
payments, but in the context of her account, it didnt exceed her available balance and a 
portion of her overdraft. I dont think the circumstances were so unusual to the extent that 
Halifax should have intervened. Mrs B also explained that she didnt receive any 
correspondence concerning the transaction, but Halifax records show that a confirmation 
text was sent to Mrs Bs registered mobile phone at the time of the payment. 
Overall, taking everything into account I think its more likely than not that Mrs B was 
responsible for authorising this transaction and its reasonable for Halifax to hold her liable for it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman