DRN-3344496
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to answer their question about 
allowable overpayments on their mortgage in good time  causing them to miss out on the 
opportunity to make overpayments when they would have liked.
What happened
Mr and Mrs I have a capital repayment mortgage with Barclays on a fixed rate. Their 
mortgage is in two parts. Ill refer to these as account A and account B. 
Mr and Mrs I called Barclays on 13 July 2020, primarily to talk about an issue on their current 
account which isnt part of this complaint. During the call, they say they also asked Barclays 
how much they could overpay on each of their mortgage accounts that year without incurring 
an early redemption charge. But Barclays couldnt give them that information at the time 
because the system with that information was not functioning. They say they were told to call 
back. Mr and Mrs I say they attempted to call Barclays later the same day, but gave up after 
34 minutes of waiting in a queue.
Mr and Mrs I complained to Barclays and that was acknowledged on 27 July 2020.They 
spoke to Barclays about their complaint on 11 September 2020 in a pre-arranged call. 
During the call they explained to Barclays what they wanted  a breakdown of what 
overpayments they could make without incurring an early redemption charge. Due to the 
challenges of a new-born child and Mrs I being ill, they missed Barclays two attempted 
complaint resolution phone calls. So, Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs I with the outcome of 
their complaint on 12 September 2020.
In its final response letter, Barclays apologised for its system failure and the length of time 
Mr and Mrs I spent waiting for their call to be answered. It explained that was due to the 
additional calls it was receiving due to the covid pandemic and said it was doing its utmost to 
reduce wait times. Barclays letter also confirmed:
Account A: Mr and Mrs I could pay an additional £13,062.20 between                        
1 November 2019 and 1 November 2020;
Account B: Mr and Mrs I could pay an additional £5,160.98 between                          
1 August 2020 and 1 August 2021.
The letter clarified that the amounts reset to 10% each year on their respective 
anniversaries.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr and Mrs I referred their complaint to us. They say they 
want monetary reimbursement for the financial, administrative and mental toll; monetary 
reimbursement for the complaints procedure and terms and condition rule breaking and the 
lies and broken promises; and monetary reimbursement for bringing the complaint to us.
Our investigator said he didnt think Barclays had acted fairly. He said he thought, because 
of Barclays failures, Mr and Mrs I missed out on the opportunity to make overpayments 
between 13 July 2020 and 12 September 2020. He said Mr and Mrs I provided him with 
evidence that they had the available funds at that time to make overpayments so he thinks 
they would have done so. He said Barclays should backdate any overpayments made by   
Mr and Mrs I within 28 days of his opinion letter and pay them £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Barclays didnt agree. It said it had provided the same information about allowable 
overpayments to Mr and Mrs I on 12 March 2020, via its secure online messaging centre. 
That information hadnt changed because Mr and Mrs I didnt make any overpayments 
between March 2020 and their enquiry in July 2020. It also questioned why Mr and Mrs I 
didnt use the allowance on account A to mitigate the problem when they were given the 
information again in Barclays final response letter of 12 September 2020.
Our investigator responded saying Mr and Mrs I said they wanted to know the outcome of 
our investigation before making overpayments but have demonstrated that they had the 
funds to do so at the time.
Barclays didnt agree and sent evidence that Mr and Mrs I made overpayments soon after 
referring their complaint to us. As Barclays didnt accept our investigators findings,             
Mr and Mrs Is complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision of 17 February 2022, I wrote:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so my provisional 
findings are different from those of our investigator. Ill explain why.
To decide Mr and Mrs Is complaint, Ive thought about whether Barclays service in 
July 2020 prevented Mr and Mrs I making overpayments between the date of their 
enquiry and the date they received Barclays final response letter. And Ive thought 
about whether, in the circumstances, Barclays should pay Mr and Mrs I for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
At the time Mr and Mrs I called Barclays  13 July 2020  they were allowed to 
overpay approximately £13,000 to account A and approximately £5,000 to account B 
for that year. By the time they received Barclays final response confirming their 
allowance  12 September 2020  account B had passed an anniversary. So,         
Mr and Mrs I couldnt make their allowed overpayment for account B for the previous 
year for that account at that time.
Account transaction statements show that Mr and Mrs I started to make regular 
overpayments to both accounts in November 2020 and didnt make lump sum 
overpayments until May 2021. So, I agree with Barclays where it says Mr and Mrs I 
didnt mitigate the loss of any missed opportunity to make over payment as soon as 
they might have. And I think their delay in doing so casts some doubt over any 
assertion that they would have made overpayments in July, August or September of 
2020 had they been given the information they requested on 13 July 2020.
In any event, Barclays file notes indicate that Mr and Mrs I were given the same 
information on 12 March 2020 as they would have been on 13 July 2020. So, I think they could have relied on that information to make overpayments in July, August or 
September 2020 if that was their plan.
I appreciate that it must have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs I that Barclays systems 
were down when they called on 13 July 2020 and when their subsequent call went 
unanswered for more than 30 minutes. However, I think if it was important to them to 
make overpayments then and they thought they couldnt rely on the information given 
to them in March 2020, they could have called Barclays again at, potentially, a less 
busy time.
Barclays has said it was receiving more calls at that time because of the covid 
pandemic. Given that it would have been dealing with many requests from borrowers 
hoping to take advantage of the government/Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
guidance around payment holidays, I think its understandable that its phone lines 
would have been busy. 
While the pandemic had been known about for some months by then, I dont think 
Barclays could reasonably have been expected to be able to deal efficiently with the 
extra phone traffic. I say this mindful of the fact that businesses were expected to 
have their staff work from home where possible and many borrowers were asking for 
either their first or second period of covid related payment holidays. So, in the wider 
circumstances, I dont think Barclays customer service shortcomings were 
unreasonable. 
Overall and on balance, I dont think Barclays customer service on 13 July 2020 
prevented Mr and Mrs I from making the overpayments they wanted to. If                
Mr and Mrs I had called back at a less busy time, I think its likely Barclays would 
have been able to confirm the information they gave in March 2020 and Mr and Mrs I 
wouldnt have had the inconvenience of complaining about this issue. So, I dont 
think Barclays needs to compensate Mr and Mrs I for the supposed loss of 
opportunity. And I dont think its customer service failings on 13 July 2020 were 
substantial enough to warrant a payment for distress and inconvenience. I think 
Barclays apology  given in its final response letter  is sufficient in the 
circumstances.
Both parties have now responded to my provisional decision. Barclays made no further 
comments. Mr and Mrs I didnt accept my decision. They asked that I consider that the 
anniversary for one of their accounts was in August so it had passed by the time Barclays 
wrote to them in September 2020. They also said they tried to call Barclays and were on 
hold multiple times and dont agree thats acceptable.
Having reviewed my provisional decision with all of Mr and Mrs Is comments in mind, Im not 
persuaded to change it. In my provisional decision I acknowledged that an anniversary on 
one of their accounts had passed by the time Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs I to confirm the 
current allowable overpayments. But importantly, I didnt see that Mr and Mrs I sought to 
mitigate that loss as soon as they could have as they didnt make lumps sum payments to 
the mortgage until much later in the (mortgage) year. And despite, in March 2020, having 
been given the information they claim they were denied later, they also didnt maximise their 
overpayments promptly or use that information in July 2020. 
I say that not to suggest that they should have made overpayments promptly following the 
information they received in March. Instead I say that to show that the fact they didnt doesnt 
suggest they necessarily would have made payment promptly if they received the same 
information in July. And, irrespective of whether Barclays gave that information in July,       
Mr and Mrs I had already received it in March. So Barclays failure to provide the information in July didnt prevent Mr and Mrs I acting on the information theyd received in March  either 
shortly after it was received or in July when they may have been ready to make 
overpayments. 
In my provisional decision I said that I dont think Barclays customer service failings on      
13 July 2020 were substantial enough to warrant a payment for distress and inconvenience. 
Mr and Mrs I have now referred to multiple calls and being on hold multiple times. But that 
isnt consistent with what theyve told us previously. In their complaint form they describe 
contacting Barclays via a live chat service on 13 July 2020 about a different issue but 
mentioning their mortgage query  the subject of this complaint. Then they spoke on the 
phone to Barclays  predominantly about the previous issue but mentioning the mortgage 
query. Barclays couldnt help with the mortgage query either time because of a system 
failure. They said they called another number that afternoon:
I subsequently tried later that afternoon at 15:44 to get through to the mortgage 
department again at 15:44 and was on hold for 34 minutes and was not able to get 
through, I gave up at this point as I had spent 1 hour 27 minutes of my time 
combined with live chat and telephone calls
In their complaint form Mr and Mrs I didnt mention multiple calls  any more than the two 
outlined above  and I havent seen evidence to support that recent claim. Ive seen that, 
following their attempts to obtain the mortgage information in question, they contacted 
Barclays to complain about their experience. But the evidence Ive seen shows that Barclays 
responded to their complaint within the time it was allowed.
Id like to assure Mr and Mrs I that I have considered all the evidence theyve provided and 
statements theyve made in relation to this complaint. That includes the statements made to 
our investigator, who reached a different finding to me. Having done so in mind of the wider 
circumstances, Im still not persuaded that Barclays caused Mr and Mrs I not to make 
overpayments when they wanted to or that Barclays customer service failings were 
sufficient to warrant any redress in addition to the apology it has already given.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Is complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman