DRN-3613126
The complaint
Mrs H complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled her 
claim on her home insurance policy. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is extensive and well known to both parties. So, rather 
than repeat everything here, Ive just summarised key events below.
In 2008 Mrs H had home insurance with a different insurer. She made a claim and a 
collapsed drain was found and repairs carried out.
In 2015 Mrs H made a claim on her home insurance with RSA under the subsidence 
cover after noticing problems with cracking to a retaining wall, extension and garage. 
RSA accepted the claim and initially thought the damage was due to a failure of the 
previous repairs. The original repairer and RSAs contractor carried our further repairs 
but there were issues with these that needed rectifying.
During this time it became apparent that the property wasnt stabilising so further 
monitoring took place. A number of reports were carried out and RSA eventually 
concluded that the subsidence had been caused by four trees owned by the local 
authority.  
It wrote to the local authority to ask that they be removed but they didnt agree. They said 
there wasnt enough evidence that the trees were causing the subsidence and thought 
further investigation should be undertaken. RSA didnt agree and continued to pursue 
the local authority for the tree removal. 
In the meantime it concluded that if the tree removal wasnt possible then it would 
underpin one side of the property. It therefore obtained two quotes for this work and 
selected the cheaper of the two to proceed with. It let the local authority know that it 
would be pursuing its costs for this work.
Throughout the claim Mrs H made a number of complaints. She had been unhappy with 
how RSA and its contractors had dealt with things throughout. She didnt think it had 
done enough to prove causation and was unhappy that it still hadnt rectified a problem 
with her roof that was due to poor workmanship. She was also unhappy with the 
suggested repairs as she didnt think this would put her back in the position she was in 
before the claim.
RSA sent numerous responses to Mrs Hs complaints, however in December 2021 it sent 
another response that addressed all of Mrs Hs concerns across the claim. It offered a 
total of £1,500 compensation to make up for the poor service it had provided at various 
points during the claim. 
Mrs H was unhappy with this as she didnt think it accurately reflected the distress she 
had been caused. And she remained unhappy with the proposed way forward for the 
claim. 
This service reviewed the complaints but our investigator didnt recommend RSA do 
anything more. He thought the compensation offered was fair to make up for the errors 
made. And that the proposed way forward was fair based on the available evidence. 
Mrs H didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has provided a large amount of information in relation to this complaint. As this is an 
informal service, Ive not responded to every point shes made. Instead Ive focused on those 
I consider to be key to my outcome. However I want to reassure Mrs H that Ive considered 
everything shes submitted. 
Causation
One of the key issues Mrs H has raised is that she doesnt think RSA has ever proved the 
cause of the subsidence. Shes said it said the trees were the cause but this goes against 
the findings of its own previous reports. And its failed to investigate the councils concerns 
about possible other causes. 
It isnt the role of this service to decide upon the cause of the subsidence, as we arent 
experts in structural repairs. Instead we rely on evidence from those who are experts in 
order to assess if the business acted fairly. 
Here, I can see that RSA has carried out fairly extensive investigations into the cause of the 
damage. Its experts have produced numerous reports based on site visits and its carried out 
various periods of monitoring.  From these investigations its concluded that the most likely 
cause is the council owned trees. Based on the level of investigations, and its experts 
opinions, I think this is a fair conclusion.
I note that the council doesnt agree RSA has done enough to prove the cause and has 
asked for further investigations to be carried out. RSA has said that it completed drainage 
repairs and saw no evidence that the subsidence was being caused by excess water, as the 
council suggests. So it didnt agree there was a need to investigate this further. So while I 
can understand why Mrs H feels there wasnt a full investigation into the cause as RSA didnt 
carry out the additional investigation the council requested, I dont consider this 
unreasonable. RSA based its conclusions on the evidence from its experts and while the 
council offered a speculative view about another possible cause, Ive not seen expert 
evidence to show that RSAs experts conclusions are incorrect.
Mrs H has also said that in a report issued by RSAs experts in 2019, they concluded that 
the cause of the subsidence was unlikely to be due to vegetation. And she says RSA has 
ignored this evidence when assessing causation. While I can see RSAs expert did reach 
this conclusion in an earlier report, I dont agree this means RSA have made an incorrect 
assessment. Its said that since that report its carried out monitoring which has shown 
cyclical movement which is usually caused by clay shrinkage. And its carried out drain 
repairs which have shown to have had no impact on the movement of the property. So its 
now satisfied that the evidence shows the likely cause to be the trees. Based on the 
evidence, I think this is a fair assessment and I dont think it unreasonable that its changed its original position based on new evidence. 
So while I understand Mrs Hs concerns about the change in RSAs position and the 
objections that have been raised by the council, on balance I think RSA has done enough to 
show that the probable cause of the damage is the trees.
But even if I wasnt satisfied it had proved causation, as the council has refused to remove 
the trees, its offered to move to underpin the impacted parts of the property. Underpinning is 
a substantial repair that ensures the stability of a property thats often used when all other 
attempts of stabilisation havent worked. So regardless of the cause of the subsidence, Im 
satisfied that RSAs proposed repairs seek to address the problem and stabilise the 
property. So even if the causation isnt proven, this should address the problem anyway.
For these reasons, Im satisfied that RSA has acted fairly when diagnosing the issues and 
proposing a solution to stabilise the property.
Returning the property to post loss condition
Mrs H has also raised concerns about the proposed scope of works, as she says it wont 
return her property to the condition it was in before the subsidence, particularly in relation to 
the extension.
RSAs expert has said that in order to stabilise the extension it will need to underpin it in its 
current state, rather than lifting it to move it to its previous position. Its said if it did that then 
there is no guarantee the fix would be successful. 
When carrying out a repair this service would expect the insurer to put its policy holder back 
in the position they were in before the claim, or as close as possible. And based on RSAs 
expert opinion, it seems unlikely that Mrs Hs property can be returned to its exact position. 
However it seems the proposed repairs will get it as close as possible. So I think RSA has 
made a fair assessment. And while Mrs H has speculated that this wont be sufficient, Ive 
not seen any evidence to show that this will be the case. If Mrs H is unhappy with the repairs 
once they are carried out she will be able to make a new complaint about this at this time. 
But I think the proposal put forward by RSA at the time of this complaint is a fair one. 
Mrs H has also raised concerns about the roof being fixed before the substructure repairs 
are completed. While RSA hasnt confirmed whether it will complete this repair first, Id 
expect it to ensure the repair to the roof is effective and long-lasting and remains effective 
after the substructure repairs are completed. If Mrs H is unhappy with the repair once all 
repairs are complete, she can also make a complaint about this at this stage. 
Mandate
Mrs H is unhappy that RSA has asked her to sign a mandate in order for the repair work to 
commence. This isnt an unusual step for insurers to take when seeking agreement for 
substantial repairs. So I dont think its unreasonable for RSA to request this. 
I appreciate it originally gave incorrect information about the need to sign the mandate but 
its since corrected this and its offered Mrs H the option of confirming her consent by email. 
And I think this is reasonable in the circumstances. 
Delays and service
Its clear there have been a number of problems throughout this claim that have been 
caused by RSAs contractors. There has been work thats needed to be re-done which has delayed the claim and caused Mrs H inconvenience in having to continually contact RSA. It 
has also caused further distress on top of an already stressful claim. 
RSA has responded to these issues and arranged rectification work promptly. Further its 
offered a total of £1,500 compensation to make up for the errors and the distress these have 
caused. 
Mrs H doesnt think this is sufficient considering the distress she has been caused. I agree 
the claim has gone on for a very long time and this will have been distressing for Mrs H. 
However subsidence claims will often take a long time to resolve. And involve long periods 
of monitoring and many different contractors. In this complaint I can only consider the 
additional distress caused by RSAs actions, rather than just the distress caused by dealing 
with a subsidence claim. And here I agree RSA and its contractors provided a poor service. 
But RSA has acted quickly to rectify problems when they have been raised. And its offered 
£1,500 compensation. This is around what I would have directed it to pay if it hadnt made an 
offer already and is in line with our approach to similar cases. I therefore think that RSA has 
done enough to put things right, so I wont ask it to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman