DRN-3817142
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from Klarna Bank AB (publ) (Klarna) when 
he purchased a television. He says it failed to make clear its repayment process, and as a 
result its unfairly charged him late payment fees and affected his credit rating.
What happened
Mr S bought a television in August 2021, and he used finance provided by Klarna to 
complete the purchase. He says he agreed to repay the finance on a monthly basis over a 
term of 18 months, and he gave Klarna his bank details to facilitate this. Mr S says that 
although it successfully used these bank details to collect his deposit, it failed to explain the 
steps he needed to complete in order to make his monthly payments and, as a result his 
credit file now shows missed payments, and this has adversely affected his credit score. 
Mr S told us:
he provided Klarna with his bank details at the point of purchase and it successfully 
collected a deposit equal to 10% of the purchase price, and he believed that it would 
then use these same details to collect his ongoing monthly payments;
Klarna did not provide him with a copy of the credit agreement, and he received no 
other correspondence in the post, even though it had said that a copy of the credit 
agreement would be provided;
he received an email when he first opened his account, but it contained no 
information informing him that there were steps he needed to take to ensure his 
monthly payments could be collected  he later learned that he needed to set up 
Klarnas Autopay feature;
although he received regular monthly account statement and text messages, they 
appeared to be quite generic, and did not highlight sufficiently that he was behind 
with his payments and that there was some action he needed to take;
it wasnt until December, when he decided to download Klarnas app, that he realised 
he owed money and had missed some payments;
the app wouldnt allow him to pay the outstanding payments  even though he had 
the money and was keen to bring his account up to date  he could only choose 
between paying that months payment or the full outstanding balance;
he contacted Klarna and it partially upheld his complaint, acknowledging the 
confusion around the setting up of the Autopay feature, and it agreed to remove 
Septembers missed payment from his credit file.
Unhappy with its response, Mr S brought his complaint to this Service. He says Klarna 
should remove all reference to all the missed payments from his credit file; it should refund 
any late payment fees and reimburse him for additional interest accrued and paid. He also 
wants Klarna to review its communications and processes and for its processes and 
adherence to FCA requirements to be reviewed.
Klarna apologised for Mr S negative experience and it partially upheld his complaint. Klarna 
said it had informed Mr S of his monthly payments together with information about how to 
enable Autopay. But it did acknowledge there had been some confusion over whether or not 
Autopay had been enabled on his order. It said it had sent monthly emails explaining how 
to enable Autopay, and that these emails were successfully delivered to the address it held 
on file.
It said it had removed the missing payment marker in respect of Septembers payment as a 
gesture of goodwill, but that it wouldnt amend the information about the remaining missing 
monthly payments. But it did sincerely apologise for any frustration or inconvenience this 
situation has caused and it said it completely understand [sic] that a lack of communication 
invokes a feeling of frustration for you as a customer when managing your payments.
Klarna told us that it would be happy to pay Mr S £50 compensation, taking into account the 
misinformation at checkout, the distress caused by the application of the credit marks, as 
well as the formal communication
Our investigator looked at this complaint and explained to Mr S that this Service isnt the 
Regulator, so we dont have powers to compel financial businesses to change their 
processes or procedures. But she also said she didnt think Klarna had acted fairly and said 
she thought this complaint should be upheld and she asked Klarna to pay Mr S some 
compensation.
She said that although she understood Klarnas processes, she was persuaded that having 
set up a Direct Debit, it was entirely plausible that Mr S would believe his monthly 
repayments would be collected automatically and that there was no need for him to do 
anything further. And she agreed that the correspondence Klarna had sent to Mr S wasnt 
clear enough to draw his attention to the fact that payments hadnt been received. She 
concluded by saying that given Klarna itself accepts the Autopay requirements couldve 
been clearer, and that Klarna should also remove the missed payments for October 2021, 
November 2021, and December 2021 from Mr S credit file. And it should refund any late 
fees or interest charged in connection with these missed payments.
In view of the stress and confusion caused to Mr S and the fact that Klarna couldve done 
more to draw his attention to the missed payments, together with the impact this has had on 
Mr S credit score and his ability to take out new finance, she asked Klarna to pay Mr S £150 
in compensation.
Mr S accepted our investigators opinion, but Klarna did not, so the complaint comes to me 
to decide. It said that although Mr S could have assumed that a mandate was set up, the 
lack of any written confirmation should have been indicative that this was not completed 
correctly. And it said that although it may not have been clear on the statements that there 
were missed payments on the account, Mr S had other sources of information that wouldve 
provided this confirmation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, its important that I explain that this Service doesnt supervise, regulate or 
discipline the businesses we cover, so Im not able to direct Klarna to change its processes 
or procedures. And my role isnt to punish or penalise businesses for their performance or 
behaviour  thats the role of the regulator, in this case the Financial Conduct Authority.
My role is to look at problems that a consumer may have experienced and see if the 
business - in this case, Klarna  has acted fairly and reasonably. If it hasnt, I seek to put the 
consumer  Mr S  back in the position he wouldve been in if the business had acted like I 
think it shouldve done. And I may award compensation if I think its appropriate.Having considered everything very carefully, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator, and Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mr S set up a direct debit when he first purchased the television and 
that the bank account details he provided as part of this process were successfully used to 
take the deposit. So, like our investigator, Im also persuaded that having set up his direct 
debit, and had the deposit correctly taken, it wasnt unreasonable for Mr S to have safely 
concluded that his monthly payments would be collected when they became due, and there 
wasnt, obviously, anything further that he needed to do.
Klarna appears to accept that the process for setting up Autopay and the need to do this 
couldve been made clearer to Mr S  and I agree. It agreed to remove the marker for the 
missed September payment from Mr S credit file. But I dont think this goes far enough.
Mr S has provided fairly detailed testimony about what happened; what he did; why he did it 
and how he finally resolved the matter with Klarna, and hes been consistent in what hes 
said. I find it plausible that, believing his direct debit had been correctly set up, a cursory 
glance at his monthly statements wouldve given him no cause for concern; this is because 
its not immediately clear when opening the statement that a payment has been missed.
Moreover, Mr S says his credit record was excellent prior to the events that have unfolded, 
and hes told us about the effect the missed payments have had on his credit score and what 
this has meant in practical terms. I simply do not believe that missing a few monthly 
payments at the start of the finance agreement was something that Mr S did intentionally or 
carelessly. The fact that Klarna admits its own processes couldve been clearer; together 
with the transcripts of the conversation between Mr S and Klarna when he first realised hed 
missed a few payments; and the actions hes subsequently taken, suggest to me that 
Klarnas admissions on the clarity of its Autopay process is the likely cause of not just 
Septembers missed payment, but also the missed payments for October, November and 
December. 
As Klarna has already agreed to remove reference to Septembers missed payment from 
Mr S credit file, Im going to ask it  for exactly the same reason  to remove reference to 
the other missed payments in October November and December 2021 from his credit file, 
and to refund any fees or interest charged in respect of these missed payments.
Im also going to ask Klarna to pay Mr S £150 in compensation in recognition of the poor 
service its provided. Its clear that Klarna couldve done more to let Mr S know hed missed 
his monthly payments and that hed not done what he needed to do in order to activate 
Autopay. And Klarnas actions have affected Mr S credit record  hes provided this Service 
with copies of his credit file, and hes explained how he was declined for other finance at this 
time because of the missed payment markers and the opportunity he had to forgo to 
restructure his finances.
Putting things right
Im going to ask Klarna Bank AB (publ) to:
Remove the missed payment markers and any other negative information applied 
against Mr Ss credit file for October, November and December 2021;
Refund any late fees and/or interest charged in respect of the missed payments 
between September and December 2021.Pay Mr S £150 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience its 
caused and the poor service its provided. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint and I dont think Klarna Bank AB (publ) needs to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Klarna Bank AB (publ) to pay 
redress to Mr S as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman