DRN-2234851
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy because MCE Insurance Company Limited (MCE) has avoided his 
motorbike insurance policy. 
What happened
In December 2018, Mr Cs motorbike was stolen from his place of work. MCE considered the 
claim and during their investigation they said at the time of buying the policy, Mr C had 
stated the motorbike would be kept in a garage however they found this wasnt the case. 
Instead the motorbike was kept in a store room of a public house where he resided. 
In January 2019, MCE told Mr C because he had provided incorrect information, they would 
be avoiding the policy for the period of 2018 to 2019, thereby treating it as if it never existed. 
Mr C complained stating the motorbike was kept in a secure and locked building. However 
MCE concluded that he had deliberately or recklessly given them false information so they 
were entitled to avoid the policy, refuse to settle the claim and keep the premiums paid. 
Mr C referred the complaint to our service and our investigator recommended the complaint 
should be upheld. They believed it wasnt fair for MCE to treat Mr Cs inaccurate information 
as being provided on a deliberate or reckless basis; instead they felt Mr C had been 
careless. The investigator said because MCE wouldve offered cover had he stated the 
motorbike wouldve been kept in a locked building, they should settle the claim on a 
proportionate basis. 
MCE disagreed and said, in summary:
Mr C was asked a clear and open question about where the motorbike would be 
stored and he chose to give false information;
Mr C hadnt provided evidence he had permission to store the motorbike in the store, 
they didnt believe it was kept there and if it was, this raised health and hygiene 
concerns; and
Mr C worked several miles away from his home address and he hadnt provided a 
plausible explanation of how he travels to and from work. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide. I asked MCE for more information about the 
difference in premiums charged between the storage locations.  
In September 2020, I issued my provisional decision, upholding the case. I said:
MCE said Mr C didnt give them correct information about where the motorbike would be 
stored. Where such allegations are made, this is referred to as a misrepresentation and the 
relevant law which applies is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA).
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out an insurance policy. It sets out several considerations for deciding whether the 
consumer failed to do this and, if it did, the options available to the insurer. Ive addressed 
each of these considerations in turn below.
Did Mr C take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation?
Its important when looking at this to decide if the insurer asked a clear question when the 
policy was taken out. Ive listened to the calls where Mr C initially obtained a quote for 
insurance then later bought the policy. He was asked where the motorbike would be kept 
and he responded by saying a locked garage. The advisor said We class a garage as a 
locked structure, for housing motor vehicles constructed of brick, concrete, steel or stone 
which is your private property. Anything outside that description is not treated as a garage. 
Can you confirm your garage meets those requirements?. Mr C confirmed it met the 
requirements. I think this is a clear question and it was for Mr C to take reasonable care in 
answering it not to make a misrepresentation.
Ive considered the photographs where the motorbike was kept. It is clear it isnt a purpose 
built garage, instead it looks like a store room of a public house. Mr C has said he rents and 
resides alone at the public house and the bike is kept at the rear of the cellar behind two sets 
of locked doors to which only he had access. 
Under CIDRA, a consumer is required to take reasonable care when answering the 
application questions. Based on where the motorbike was stored, what the advisor described 
as a garage during the call and the fact he doesnt own the storage space, in my opinion, I 
dont believe Mr C had taken reasonable care when answering this question. I say this 
because I cant reasonably say the store room at a public house could be described as a 
garage.
Did Mr C make a qualifying misrepresentation?
At the time the investigator looked into the complaint, MCE had provided two quotes to show 
the difference in premiums Mr C wouldve paid had he said his motorbike was stored in a 
locked building compared to a locked garage. The difference in premium was over £300. 
However MCE has subsequently provided evidence which shows the underwriters pricing 
structure which applied at the time Mr C bought the policy. This showed Mr C wouldnt have 
been charged any differently if he had told them the motorbike wouldve been stored in a 
garage or a locked building. On that basis, Im not satisfied a qualifying misrepresentation 
has been made according to CIDRA as its clear the policy wouldve been offered to Mr C on 
the same terms. 
As a qualifying misrepresentation hasnt been made, it isnt necessary for me to consider 
whether or not Mr Cs misrepresentation was deliberate, reckless or careless.
Other
MCE has said Mr C hasnt provided evidence he had permission to store the motorbike in 
the storage room and this raised health and hygiene concerns. Mr C had a professional 
agreement with the owners to rent the property, he said he resided there alone and he had 
sole access to the store room so I believe its mostly likely he did have permission to use 
that space. It isnt our services role to comment on whether where the bike was stored met 
food standard regulations, nor can I see this is a requirement of the policy. Additionally, 
when deciding to avoid the policy, MCE had the opportunity to investigate any other 
concerns. There is no evidence Mr Cs commute to work was also a contributing factor in 
deciding to avoid the policy. Although I note the purpose also included commuting. If this was a concern I wouldve expected MCE to have investigated this and reached a conclusion 
when deciding to avoid the policy. As there is no evidence to show this happened, I dont 
believe it is fair for MCE to raise this now. 
Summary
All things considered, as a qualifying misrepresentation hasnt been made by Mr C, MCE are 
not entitled to avoid his policy. 
To put things right, MCE should put Mr C as close to the position he wouldve been in had 
they not avoided his policy. This means they should reinstate it (if already avoided), consider 
the bike to have been kept in a locked building and settle the claim in full subject to the 
remaining terms of the policy. In addition, simple interest at 8% a year should be applied 
from the date of loss to the date of settlement. MCE should also remove any adverse 
information on internal databases or the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) which 
may relate to the avoidance of Mr Cs policy.
Lastly, I note Mr C has continued to pay towards the finance agreement for the motorbike 
since it was stolen despite it not being in his possession. In acknowledgement for the upset 
caused to him for having his policy incorrectly avoided, being told his claim wouldnt be paid 
and the time it has taken for MCE to obtain the correct pricing structure, I believe MCE 
should pay £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr C.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr C responded and made further comments about MCE. In summary, he maintained he 
didnt knowingly give false information to MCE, he wasnt asked by them to provide proof of 
permission that he could keep his bike in the store room and he doesnt believe how he 
travelled to work was relevant to the claim being avoided. MCE responded but had no further 
comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont believe Ive been provided with any further information that changes 
my mind. Therefore, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint for the same reasons as set out 
in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
To put things right, MCE Insurance Company Limited should:
1. If already avoided, reinstate Mr Cs insurance policy for the year 2018 to 2019;
2. Consider the motorbike to have been kept in a locked building and settle Mr Cs claim 
in full  subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, plus pay simple 
interest* at 8% a year from the date of loss to the date of settlement;3. Remove any adverse information on internal or external databases such as the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) which may relate to the avoidance of Mr 
Cs policy;
4. Pay £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr C.
*If MCE Insurance Company Limited considers that it's required by HM Revenue & Customs 
(HMRC) to take off income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr C how much it's taken off. It 
should also give Mr C a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HMRC, if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman