DRN-3419677
The complaint
Mr H complains an appointed representative of Quilter Financial Limited gave him unsuitable 
advice to move his pension to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) where his funds were 
overseen by a discretionary fund management service.
What happened
Mr Hs independent financial adviser (IFA) was Mr S who traded as Preston Sweeney 
Wealth Management and was an appointed representative of Paradigm Financial Advisers 
Ltd (later Caerus Financial Ltd and then Quilter Financial Ltd) between 20 December 2011 
and 2 March 2016. For the purposes of this decision, Ill refer to the business as Quilter 
throughout.
Mr H says Mr S set up his pension in 2001. He then advised him to move it and arranged for 
this to happen in 2006 and 2009. In 2015, Mr H says Mr S contacted him again and advised 
him to move his pension to Beaufort Securities Ltd. Mr S said he was going to move abroad 
and retire as an IFA so Grosvenor Butterworth (Financial Services) Ltd would be Mr Hs new 
IFA and would arrange for his pension to be moved. Mr H hadnt heard of either Beaufort or 
Grosvenor Butterworth before but says he agreed because Mr S persuaded him. He says 
Mr S initiated the move and Grosvenor Butterworth processed it.
It seems Mr Hs pension was moved into a Beaufort SIPP operated by Gaudi Regulated 
Service Limited and the funds were then overseen by Beauforts discretionary fund 
management service. At that point Mr Hs pension was just under £150,000. Beaufort 
subsequently collapsed and left Mr Hs pension worth approximately £3,500. 
Mr H made successful claims to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) 
against Beaufort and Grosvenor Butterworth. In total, hes received £100,060.62 from the 
FSCS.
Mr H complained to Quilter about the advice he said Mr S had given him. Specifically, he 
said:
Mr S had given him incorrect information about how the pension would be invested.
The risk of moving his pension wasnt explained, including the reduction in FSCS 
protection.
Mr S hadnt disclosed the fact hed receive a share of Grosvenor Butterworths fees  
which was a conflict of interest.
Quilter replied to say it wasnt responsible. In particular, it said:
The loss resulted from an unregulated investment.
Mr S had merely introduced Mr H to Grosvenor Butterworth and hadnt given any 
advice. It was Grosvenor Butterworth that gave the advice.
Even if Mr H had received advice from Mr S, it wasnt provided in his capacity as a 
representative of Quilter. Although Mr S could act as its representative in 2015, he 
was also free to enter contracts and agencies outside the contract he held with it. It 
has nothing in its database relating to the investment or introduction; no record that 
advice was given; and it didnt receive any remuneration. 
The appointed representative agreement it had with Mr S says he can only introduce 
to, or submit applications to, approved institutions. Here, the business wasnt 
submitted via it and it didnt have a business relationship with Grosvenor Butterworth 
or Beaufort.
Mr H brought his complaint to us. He said hed understood that any pension advice from 
Mr S was regulated advice, irrespective of the degree of his involvement in the transaction. 
He also pointed out hed had no sight of the appointed representative agreement between 
Mr S and Quilter but said caselaw means Quilter is responsible irrespective of whether Mr S 
followed its procedures.
An investigator said we couldnt consider Mr Hs complaint against Quilter as she wasnt 
persuaded Mr S had advised Mr H. Mr H didnt agree. The issue was therefore passed to me 
for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision saying I was satisfied Mr S had advised Mr H and the 
complaint was one I could consider against Quilter as it had given Mr S authority to advise 
on and arrange pension transfers. I was satisfied the advice Mr S had given Mr H was 
unsuitable and that if unsuitable advice hadnt been given, Mr H would have left his pension 
where it was. I therefore proposed compensation that I was satisfied put Mr H as closely as 
possible into the position he would probably now be in if he hadnt been given unsuitable 
advice.
Quilter queried the fact Id addressed merits in my provisional decision and also said:
Even if Mr S had advised Mr H, once it was referred to Grosvenor Butterworth there 
was a break in the chain of causation and the decision to move his pension was 
based on the advice of Grosvenor Butterworth. Grosvenor Butterworth is therefore 
responsible.
Mr S didnt carry out the regulated activity of making arrangements for someone to 
buy or sell or subscribe for a security or relevant investment. He had no involvement 
following the introduction to Grosvenor Butterworth.
Mr H replied agreeing with my conclusions on jurisdiction and merits but raising issues with 
the compensation Id proposed. Ive read and considered his response in detail. In summary, 
he said:
The compensation should be paid direct to him rather than into his pension. He 
referred to the fact hes already utilising his maximum pension contribution allowance 
 including unused allowances from previous tax years.
No deductions should be made for perceived current or future tax advantages as 
these wont exist and income tax shouldnt be deducted as his plan is to live outside 
the UK in retirement  probably in a country where pensionable income is taxed at 
0%. In relation to income tax on interest, he can declare any interest received on his 
tax return.The interest hell need to pay the FSCS should be calculated as a separate 
compensation item.
I had said Quilter should pay him five years of SIPP fees but when he moved the 
money out of his Gaudi SIPP, he was told he would only be charged two fees at £198 
a year. This money should be paid direct to him with no deductions.
£160,000 is unlikely to cover his full loss.
His previous pension had been split between a portfolio and a cash fund. The price of 
the portfolio has dropped significantly during the events in Ukraine and hes worried 
hell be prejudiced by this. Initially he said hes taken an active approach to the 
investments in his pension since he started investing large amounts of money into it 
in the 2020/21 tax year and so if hed still had that fund he would have mitigated the 
loss in value by selling the fund in mid-February 2022, meaning a notional value of 
his previous pension at that date should be used for compensation.
Following questions about his current pension arrangements, he provided evidence 
that the last time he added to the long-term investment hes now focused on was 
1 December 2021. So, he suggested using a notional value of his previous pension 
at that date to calculate compensation.
Because the market is now recovering, the time gap between calculating the 
compensation and paying it might mean his compensation is calculated at lower 
prices than what will exist at the time its paid. If that happens, he wont have the 
opportunity to invest at the prices his compensation has been calculated at.
My findings  jurisdiction
Ive considered all the evidence thats been provided. Having done so, my decision is the 
same as my provisional decision. As the only new submission is about the regulated activity 
of making arrangements, Ive repeated my provisional findings below with my additional 
findings on that point added.
To carry out regulated activities a business needs to be authorised (Section 19 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA)). Mr S wasnt directly authorised. Instead 
he was an appointed representative of Quilter. Quilter is an authorised firm. Its authorised 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to carry out a range of regulated activities including 
advising on investments and arranging deals in investments. We can therefore consider 
complaints about Quilter. And this includes some complaints about its appointed 
representatives.
But this service cant look at all complaints. Before we can consider a complaint, we need to 
check, by reference to the FCAs Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) and the legislation from 
which those rules are derived, whether its one we have the power to look at.
DISP 2.3.1R says we can:
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Guidance for this rule at DISP 2.3.3G says that:complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which 
the firmis responsible, to the same extent as if he had expressly permitted it, for 
anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the business for which 
he has accepted responsibility.
And Section 39(3) FSMA says:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
The responsibility of a principal was considered by the judge in the case of 
Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 (this case was the subject of an appeal, but 
the Court of Appeal issued a decision agreeing with the earlier decision). In the High Court, 
Mr Justice Jacobs said, at paragraph 33:
There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law, that indicates 
that the business for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by 
reference to the contract, but by reference to the authorisations granted to the 
principal which are to be found in the Financial Services register.
So, a principal isnt automatically responsible for the actions of its appointed representatives 
and its necessary to go beyond looking at the activities Quilter was authorised to do. 
Whether Quilter is responsible for the actions of Mr S is determined by considering the terms 
of the contract between Quilter and Mr S  the appointed representative agreement.
Its clear from a number of recent court cases that some terms of appointed representative 
agreements will work to exclude responsibility for a principal, and others do not.
To decide whether Quilter is responsible here, there are three issues I need to consider:
What are the specific acts Mr H has complained about?
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Did Quilter accept responsibility for those acts?
What are the specific acts Mr H has complained about?
Mr H complains Mr S gave him unsuitable advice to move his pension to a SIPP where his 
funds were overseen by a discretionary fund management service.
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Section 22 FSMA defines regulated activities as follows:
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried on by way of business and 
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) Investment includes any asset, right or interest.
(5) Specified means specified in an order made by the Treasury.The relevant Order is the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001 (RAO). The rights under a personal pension scheme (which includes Mr Hs 
previous pension and the SIPP he moved to) are specified as investments by a provision in 
Article 82 RAO. Advising on investments is a specified activity under Article 53 RAO. So is 
arranging deals in investments (Article 25 RAO).
Mr H says Mr S advised him to move his pension and started the process for that. Quilter 
says Mr S merely introduced Mr H to Grosvenor Butterworth who gave advice and made the 
arrangements.
Ive thought carefully about all the evidence. Taking everything into account, Im satisfied its 
most likely Mr S did advise Mr H to move his pension.
I accept Quilter has no record of Mr H and theres no evidence of a suitability report. But 
although suitability reports are one of the indicators that advice was given, the absence of 
one doesnt mean advice wasnt given.
In the circumstances here, there are a number of other things that satisfy me its most likely 
advice was given:
Mr Hs recollections of his conversations with Mr S suggest Mr S gave advice. Mr H 
has clearly and consistently said Mr S approached him and suggested he move his 
pension. Ive found his recollections from the time to be detailed and plausible and 
its clear he was only aware of Grosvenor Butterworth and Beaufort because of Mr S.
Mr S was Mr Hs long-standing financial adviser. It seems Mr S had advised Mr H to 
move his pension previously and Mr H had taken that advice.
Mr Ss recollections of the conversations also suggest he gave advice. In an email 
dated 1 March 2021, Mr S said
I definitely introduced you to Grosvenor Butterworth. I accept that. And in fact 
it was they who convinced me of the merits of Beaufort. And of discretionary 
fund management. All that is true.
But all I honestly remember is introducing you to then [sic]. They were IFAs. 
And as such have given advice. I dont see how I initiated the transfer unless 
your view of initiation is that I contacted you and told you about it, which I did. 
And then I introduced you to Grosvenor Butterworth. They gave you the 
advice and gave you the terms of business and letter of recommendation
I dont agree I gave you financial advice because I didnt. Yes I spoke to you 
about it. But my definition of financial advice is based on being regulated for 
20 years. Its the firm who formally advise and arrange the transaction.
Having said that Im not saying that I didnt say to you that I think this is a 
good idea. Because obviously I did do that.
Its clear that Mr S had been convincedof the merits of Beaufort and that hed told 
Mr H I think this is a good idea.
I asked Quilter for its comments on Mr Ss recollections. It said the emails further confirm 
our stance that [Mr S] did not give [Mr H] any advice and was simply an introducer to 
Grosvenor Butterworth. But whilst Quilter and Mr S dont think what he said to Mr H amounted to advice, I dont agree. PERG 8.28 sets out guidance from the FCA on the 
difference between advice and information. At the time, PERG 8.28.1G said:
In the FCAs view, advice requires an element of opinion on the part of the adviser. 
In effect, it is a recommendation as to a course of action. Information, on the other 
hand, involves statements of facts or figures.
What Mr S acknowledges saying clearly goes beyond statements of facts and figures. By 
saying he thought the switch was a good idea he gave his opinion.
Quilter says it was Grosvenor Butterworth  who Mr S introduced Mr H to  that advised him. 
Ive thought about this carefully. But even if Mr H did later receive advice from another 
business, that doesnt mean Mr S didnt also give advice.
In my provisional decision I said I also think its likely Mr S carried out the regulated activity 
of making arrangements for someone to buy or sell or subscribe for a security or relevant 
investment as the communication between him and Grosvenor Butterworth suggests he 
continued to have some involvement even once the introduction had been made. Quilter has 
disputed that Mr S had any involvement after the introduction.
Ive thought about this carefully. But Im satisfied I dont need to make a finding on this point. 
I say this because, even if Mr S didnt carry out the regulated activity of making 
arrangements for someone to buy or sell or subscribe for a security or relevant investment, 
for the reasons set out above, Im satisfied he gave advice. And as Ive gone on to explain, 
Im satisfied that advice is in our jurisdiction against Quilter.
Did Quilter accept responsibility for those acts?
The first question I need to satisfy myself of is whether Mr S was holding himself out as 
representing Quilter at the time of the advice complained about.
Quilter says he wasnt. It says he was free to enter into contracts and agencies outside of 
the agreement he held with it and it has nothing in its database relating to the investment or 
introduction; no record that advice was given; and it didnt receive any remuneration.
Ive thought about this carefully but taking everything into account, Im satisfied Mr S was 
most likely holding himself out as acting as a representative of Quilter at the time of the 
events complained about. Mr H has provided us with a letter he was sent by Mr S letting him 
know that he had left the company he was previously registered as an IFA at. He went on to 
say:
I have now set up a new company which is called Preston Sweeney Wealth 
Management. Preston Sweeney Wealth Management is an appointed representative 
of Paradigm Financial Advisers Ltd which are authorised and regulated by the 
Financial Services Authority
In order to carry on providing you with advice in relation to your policies, please could 
you complete the attached Transfer of Agency letter and return it to me at your 
earliest convenience.
Mr H had a long-standing relationship with Mr S. Over a long period of time Mr S provided 
him with advice in respect of his pension. And when he moved and started doing so as a 
representative of Quilter (Paradigm at the time) he let Mr H know. Theres nothing about the 
way in which the 2015 advice was given that makes me think this was given in any other 
capacity. Whilst there isnt any documentation for this advice and Quilter has no record of it, Im 
satisfied thats because Mr S didnt view it as advice  not because he wasnt acting as a 
representative of Quilter at the time.
Ive therefore gone on to consider the appointed representative agreement that was in place 
at the time. Quilter has provided a sample Caerus appointed representative agreement thats 
marked Final Version April 2014 and which it says would have been the one in place.
Some relevant sections of the agreement include:
Relevant Activities means the activities regulated under FSMA set out in 
Schedule 1 which the Representative will be carrying out under this Agreement
2. The Firm hereby appoints the Representative as its appointed representative, 
subject to the terms of this Agreement. The Firm authorises the Representative to 
conduct the Relevant Activities
5. The Firm accepts full responsibility for anything said or done or omitted by the 
Representative in carrying on the Relevant Activities, but not for any other activities 
conducted by the Representative
23. The Representative shall comply with the provision of the compliance manual 
(which the Firm shall make available on its website) and adhere to the identified 
sales processes (as set out in the compliance manual).
Schedule 1 set out Relevant activities as including:
1. Arranging (bringing about) deals in investments (article 25(1) RAO)
2. Making arrangements with a view to transactions in investments (article 25(2) 
RAO)
3. Advising on Pension Transfers and Pension opt outs (article 53 RAO)
4. Advising on investments (article 53 RAO)
Quilter told Mr H the appointed representative agreement it had with Mr S says introductions 
can only be made to, or applications submitted to, approved institutions. I couldnt see where 
the agreement said that so asked Quilter to direct me to the part of the agreement that 
specified this restriction. Quilter responded to say I have reviewed the document in question 
and it does not appear to contain a statement relating to approved institution. Ive 
therefore proceeded on the basis that there was no such requirement.
On the basis of the sample documentation Ive been provided with, Im satisfied that Quilter 
gave Mr S authority to advise on and arrange pension transfers.
My decision  jurisdiction
For the reasons discussed above, my decision is that the Financial Ombudsman Service can 
consider this complaint.
My findings  merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, in looking at the issue of jurisdiction, I was 
satisfied I had enough to reach an outcome on the merits of Mr Hs complaint. Having 
considered all the available evidence again, Im still satisfied this is the case and my decision 
is the same as my provisional decision. As I have no further submissions to consider, Ive 
repeated my provisional findings below.
Mr H was an ordinary retail investor. He wasnt an experienced investor and it doesnt seem 
that he could afford to take significant risk with his pension. Instead, the opposite appears to 
have been true  he was unemployed at the time with no other investments and limited 
investment experience and this was his entire pension provision. He was unlikely to be able 
to replace any significant losses and the SIPP and discretionary fund management service 
had higher costs. Mr S would have known all of this. 
In these circumstances Im satisfied the pension switch to a SIPP to use discretionary fund 
management wasnt suitable and should never have been made as a recommendation to 
Mr H.
Mr H wasnt looking to move his pension and had never heard of Beaufort. So Im satisfied 
that if Mr S hadnt given unsuitable advice, Mr H would have left his pension where it was 
and wouldnt have switched it.
Putting things right
Mr H was unhappy with the actions of a number of different businesses. But here Im only 
considering his complaint about Quilter.
I note Quilters comments about causation. But irrespective of what Beaufort and Grosvenor 
Butterworth did, Quilters appointed representative still gave advice. In my view, Mr S started 
the whole chain of events. And even though his advice wasnt documented, in the context of 
a long-standing relationship of trust over a number of years, its most likely Mr H  quite 
reasonably  gave that advice considerable weight. Im still satisfied Mr H wouldnt have 
moved his pension and the discretionary fund management arrangement wouldnt have 
happened but for his unsuitable advice. So Im satisfied the chain of causation wasnt broken 
and its fair and reasonable that Quilter should compensate Mr H for all the losses he 
suffered by moving his pension.
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he hadnt been given unsuitable advice. I take the view that Mr H wouldnt have 
moved his pension if everything had happened as it should have. Im satisfied that what Ive 
set out below is fair and reasonable.
I make the following additional points:
I note Mr Hs comments in response to my provisional decision about the fact hes 
already used his maximum pension contribution allowance  including unused 
allowances from previous tax years. I asked Quilter whether, in light of this, it had any 
objections to paying the compensation to Mr H direct rather than into his pension. It 
responded to say itd be prepared to do that, so Ive amended the compensation set 
out below to reflect this.
Ive carefully considered Mr Hs comments about the value of the portfolio in his 
previous pension following the events in Ukraine. And I asked for copies of the 
statements of any active pensions he has. I appreciate the investments he has now are different to what was held in his previous pension. But Im satisfied that when 
trying to assess what actions he hypothetically would have taken, the actions that he 
has taken  albeit in slightly different circumstances  are a useful guide. And 
although there has been historic buying and selling activity on Mr Hs current SIPP, 
there was no activity in February 2022. In these circumstances, and taking everything 
into account, Im not persuaded itd be fair and reasonable to assume hed have sold 
the portfolio in his previous pension in mid-February 2022.
I also dont think itd be fair and reasonable to use a notional value date of 
1 December 2021 for Mr Hs previous pension. Just because he invested in a 
particular investment on that date, doesnt mean hed have invested more in it if hed 
had additional funds available at the time. Although I accept he may be focussing his 
current pension on one particular long-term investment, he does still have diversity in 
his portfolio, and theres nothing that persuades me its most likely hed have decided 
to cash in his previous portfolio on that date.
I note Mr Hs concerns about whether the market will change between the 
compensation calculation date and it being paid. But the nature of markets is that 
they change over time. And I dont think itd be fair and reasonable to make changes 
to the compensation payable to respond to possible future changes in the market that 
may or may not happen.
Ive also carefully considered what Mr H has said about deductions for tax 
advantages and income tax. The compensation Ive set out only makes deductions 
for income tax. I appreciate that Mr Hs current plan is to move from the UK for his 
retirement. And I accept its entirely possible that hell end up living in a country 
where pensionable income is taxed at 0%. However, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
for me to award compensation on the assumption that this will be the case. The 
reality is that Mr H currently lives in the UK and is subject to UK tax and Im satisfied 
thats what its fair and reasonable to base compensation on  not a hypothetical 
situation that might not happen.
In relation to any interest that becomes payable, Im not persuaded itd be 
appropriate to direct Quilter not to deduct income tax  as set out below, Mr H can 
reclaim any income tax deducted if appropriate.
I thank Mr H for making me aware that it was agreed hell only pay two years worth 
of SIPP fees when he moved the cash from the SIPP. I can see one of these fees 
has already been taken from the SIPP. Because this was paid from the money in the 
SIPP, Im satisfied the compensation Ive set out below will result in this being 
recovered and no separate provision needs to be made for it. One further fee of £198 
is still due however and so if the SIPP cant be closed, Quilter should add that £198 
fee to the compensation it pays.
I acknowledge Mr H was able to receive compensation from the FSCS in relation to 
both Beaufort and Grosvenor Butterworth. However, the terms of the reassignments 
of rights require him to return any compensation paid by the FSCS in the event this 
complaint is successful. So Ive made no allowance for what has been paid by the 
FSCS. It will be for Mr H to make the arrangements to make any repayments he 
needs to make to the FSCS. And I dont agree any interest Mr H will need to pay the 
FSCS should be calculated as a separate compensation item. Interest is payable 
because he has had access to the money it awarded since it awarded it and that is a 
completely separate matter.Im aware £160,000 is unlikely to cover Mr Hs full loss but £160,000 is the most Im 
able to require Quilter to pay in the circumstances here. If the amount produced by 
the calculation of fair compensation exceeds £160,000, as I expect it to, Ive 
recommended that Quilter pays Mr H the balance  plus any interest on the balance.
What must Quilter do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, Quilter must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's pension with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Quilter should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Quilter should pay that amount direct to Mr H. But had it been paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair 
amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr H wont be able to reclaim any of 
the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr H would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr H £500 for trouble and upset caused. Im satisfied Mr H has been caused 
significant upset by the events this complaint relates to, and the loss of, in effect, all 
of his pension fund. I think that a payment of £500 is fair to compensate for that 
upset.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. Quilter should give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr H asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Gaudi SIPP Still exists Notional value 
from previous 
providerDate of 
pension 
switchDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Mr H says hes since set up a further SIPP and that only the worthless securities remain in 
the Gaudi SIPP. If this is correct, Quilter should take ownership of these by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Quilter pays should be 
included in the actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Quilter is unable to purchase the portfolio, the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose of calculation. Quilter may require that Mr H provides an undertaking to pay 
it any amount he may receive from the securities in the future. That undertaking must allow 
for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension 
plan. Although if Quilter chooses to limit compensation to our award limit, the undertaking 
should only apply to any amounts received once Mr H has been fully compensated in line 
with this decision. Quilter will need to meet any cost in drawing up the undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr H's pension had it remained with the previous provider until the end 
date. Quilter should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the pension should be added to the notional value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the pension should be deducted from the notional value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Quilter totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine 
the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Quilter will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr H's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the 
investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: 
average rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of 
a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
It seems as though the Gaudi SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the 
Gaudi SIPP to be closed and the further fee that is to be charged prevented, those 
investments need to be removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Quilter 
taking over the securities, or this is something Mr H can discuss with the provider directly.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Quilter is 
unable to purchase the securities, it should pay Mr H an upfront sum of £198 (the 
remaining annual wrapper fee).
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr H wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr H's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr H into that position. It does not mean that Mr H 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr H could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend that 
Quilter Financial Limited pays the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Quilter Financial Limited should 
pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £160,000 (including 
distress or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on that amount as set out 
above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that Quilter Financial Limited pays Mr H the balance plus 
any interest on the balance as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Laura Parker
Ombudsman