DRN-1397762
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont pay a travel insurance claim under 
their premier bank account additional benefits. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B did at one point hold a premier account with HSBC which gave them access to 
certain extra benefits. One of these benefits was travel insurance. Unfortunately, Mr B was 
unable to go on a holiday hed booked due to health problems. So, he cancelled his travel 
plans and made a claim under this travel insurance policy. Insurers informed Mr B that he no 
longer had a policy.
Mr B contacted HSBC and was told that his premier account had been downgraded after he 
moved his current account to another bank. HSBC said because of this Mr B no longer had 
access to any of the associated product benefits.
HSBC said as Mr and Mrs B chose to switch their account to another bank the premier 
account was closed. This also meant that their linked premier savings accounts were 
converted to flexi-saver accounts. HSBC said it notified Mr and Mr B about the changes. 
HSBC said that notification confirmed this would mean theyd lose the extra product benefits 
linked to the account. Mr B said this wasnt explained to him or his wife. He said they 
deliberately left the savings accounts open with money in it so that hed be able to access 
the premier account extra product benefits. Unhappy that HSBC wouldnt deal with his travel 
claim he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said HSBCs system notes confirmed it had 
told Mr and Mrs B about the consequences of switching away from the premier account. He 
said the evidence showed HSBC had a record confirming the appropriate letters had been 
sent to Mr and Mrs B referring to their flexi-saver account instead of premier savings 
accounts. Our investigator said he thought HSBC had acted reasonably when it declined Mr 
Bs request to deal with his travel claim.
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept this, so the complaint was been passed on to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within the file Ive seen copies of HSBCs letters to Mr and Mrs B. One letter said it had been 
notified by another bank that Mr and Mrs B wanted to switch their accounts. The letter is 
headed closing your account and it explained that once the switch had taken place, the 
account would close.The letter also said: you should also check the terms and conditions of any products you 
may continue to hold with us, as they may be affected. All of the benefits (including any 
associated insurances) will cease from the day your account switch is completed.
I think its clear from this letter that Mr and Mrs B had been informed by HSBC of the 
consequences of switching their account before it took place. I realise Mr B said he didnt 
receive this letter, but I can see that its correctly addressed. And I have no reason to think 
HSBC didnt send it.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions. These state that to be eligible for a premier account, 
the account holder must pay their annual income into it and either 1) have savings or 
investments of at least £50,000 with HSBC in the UK; or 2) have an individual annual income 
of at least £100,000 and hold either a mortgage; or an investment, life insurance or 
protection product with HSBC in the UK.
Terms and conditions continue that if the account is closed or converted to another account 
type, HSBC will remove all the HSBC premier benefits from the date of closure. I think this 
is clear.
Based on these details I think HSBC acted fairly and in line with the accounts terms and 
conditions. I think it did notify Mr and Mrs B that if they decided to switch their account their 
existing HSBC benefits would be removed and the main account closed.
Mr B said they left their HSBC premier savings accounts open so they could continue to 
have access to the extra product benefits. But these are benefits to the premier account so 
once that account was closed HSBC explained the benefits were removed too. Ive looked at 
the terms and conditions of the premier savings account. This says that in order to be 
eligible, the account holder must hold a premier account. And if the account holder no 
longer has one, HSBC will change the premier savings account to a flexi-saver.
In relation to the savings accounts the HSBC letters sent refer to flexi-saver accounts rather 
than premier savings accounts. I think this is further confirmation that the premier accounts 
and benefits no longer applied to Mr and Mrs B.
Based on the evidence Ive seen I think HSBC acted fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I make no award against HSBC UK 
Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2020.
John Quinlan
Ombudsman