DRN-3627843
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds settlement offer for a motor 
insurance claim was too low.
Mrs B is represented in her complaint to our service by her husband, Mr B. Where I refer to 
Mrs B within this decision, this should be taken to included Mr B.
What happened
Mrs B insured her car with Admiral. In March 2022, the car was stolen and Admiral accepted 
the claim she made for this. It said £28,960 was the market value of the car when it offered 
to settle the claim. 
Mrs B rejected this offer. She said replacing the car would cost significantly more. Admiral 
declined to increase its offer. 
Mrs B referred her complaint about this to our service. Our investigator thought Admiral had 
made a fair offer. Mrs B didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware of how strongly Mrs B feels about Admirals offer. In support of her point that the 
value offered by Admiral is too low, weve been provided with adverts for similar cars and the 
opinion of an independent vehicle assessor. Ill address these, and the impact on my 
considerations, within my decision.
The relevant condition of Mrs Bs policy says:
The most we will pay is the market value of your vehicle.
The policy defines market value as The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar 
make, model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices immediately before the 
loss happened. Use of the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This 
value is based on research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
Admirals offer of £28,960 was the higher of two values it obtained from online motor trade 
valuation tools. These tools give a guide price for the car in question and take into account 
things such as the mileage and specification of the car. Theyre based on likely selling prices 
for such cars. 
Weve considered whether the offer was reasonable. Using four valuation tools available to 
us, the value for Mrs Bs car ranged from £28,100 to £30,771. None of the guide values are 
so different to the others that Im persuaded it should be discounted from my consideration. 
Since our investigator gave her view, weve had access to a further valuation tool, which 
gave the highest value for the vehicle. Im satisfied its not so different from the other 
valuations as to be an outlier, or mean that any of the other values should be discounted as 
inaccurate.
Admirals offer of £28,960 is within the range of values obtained. The tools dont give an 
exact value for the car, and generally wed say that an offer which falls within the range of 
the valuation tools is fair, once any outliers have been excluded. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that these valuations were based on incorrect or inaccurate information about Mrs 
Bs car.
Mrs B points towards adverts which suggest that the price of a similar car is significantly 
more. The adverts give a price of between £31,000 and £37,995. She says this is evidence 
that the valuation tools are inaccurate. We dont generally accept that adverts are a more 
accurate indicator of a cars market value. This is because these are advertised prices, not 
selling prices. The price advertised may be more than the selling price. It isnt possible to 
establish the prices that the cars shown in the adverts were sold for. The valuation tools are 
based on likely and actual selling prices, and take into account advertised prices as part of 
their calculations. I havent seen anything from Mrs B which persuades me that I should 
accept the adverts as being more accurate than the valuation tools.
Mrs B has also sent us a valuation from an independent assessor. This gives a market value 
for Mrs Bs car of £33,000. I understand that Mrs B thinks this is evidence that the valuation 
tools have undervalued her car, and so Admirals offer was too low. On reviewing the 
assessors report, it gives no indication or methodology to explain why the assessed value is 
significantly higher than the valuation tools. Im not persuaded that the content of the report 
means I should discount the valuations from the tools and prefer the assessors valuation. 
Car valuation isnt an exact science. Theres no definitive way of establishing the market 
value for Mrs Bs car. I do conclude however that Admiral has used an accepted method for 
calculating the market value, and that the offer it made is reasonable based on the values it 
obtained, and the valuations available to me. I dont think it would be fair to require Admiral 
to increase the settlement offer.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.. 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman