DRN-2856355
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about their mortgage with Santander UK Plc. They say it was 
transferred from repayment to interest only and Santander has refused to change it back. 
And they complain theyve been stuck on Santanders standard variable rate (SVR).
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out their mortgage with Santander on repayment terms in 2005.
In 2006, Mr and Mrs D got Santanders consent to take out a second charge loan with 
another lender. In 2007, they got in touch with Santander to ask about a term extension, and 
about converting the mortgage to interest only. They paid the fee Santander asked for, and 
the change was processed. 
In 2013, their fixed rate came to an end. Mr and Mrs D got in touch to discuss whether they 
could take a new rate. Santanders notes record that it asked them to go through an income 
and expenditure assessment to see what it could do to help them, but they were unwilling to 
do that. 
Santander said Mr and Mrs D werent eligible for a new interest rate in 2013, because of the 
conduct of the account. They became eligible in late 2014, but theres no evidence since 
then that Mr and Mrs D asked for a new rate.
Santander said it was willing to consider converting the mortgage back to repayment terms, 
subject to affordability  but again, there was no evidence that Mr and Mrs D had made an 
application.
During the life of this complaint, Mr and Mrs D did apply. Santander said it would agree to 
convert part, but not all, of the mortgage to repayment terms. Mr and Mrs D werent happy 
with that and moved their mortgage to another lender.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld, so Mr and Mrs D asked for it to 
be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ds previous fixed rate ended in early 2014. Prior to that, Mr and Mrs Ds direct 
debit had bounced a couple of times in 2013, and was then cancelled. Mrs D got in touch 
with Santander in April 2013 to say that her salary payment date had changed and the 
mortgage would be paid late for the next few months. 
In November 2013, Mrs D called Santander to say that they wouldnt be able to afford the 
SVR. Santander asked to go through their income and expenditure to see what it could do to 
help, but Mrs D wasnt willing to do that.
From January 2014, the mortgage reverted to the SVR. The direct debit bounced again in 
most months of 2014, though Mr and Mrs D generally made up the payment later in the 
month.
Mr and Mrs D dont agree that the above happened, or that they have ever been late with 
any of their payments. But the information Ive set out above is taken from Santanders 
notes, made at the time, and the transaction history of the account. Im satisfied that its 
more likely than not that its an accurate record of the account and that Mr and Mrs Ds 
recollection is mistaken.
The conduct of the account, among other reasons, meant that Mr and Mrs D werent eligible 
for a new interest rate in 2013 and 2014.
Santander says that later on they would have been eligible, but theres no evidence that 
Mr and Mrs D asked for rates then.
Mr and Mrs D say they asked, in branches, both for new rates and to change to repayment. 
Santander branches cant make those changes, they have to go through its central mortgage 
processing department. Its therefore likely that if Mr and Mrs D did have discussions in 
branch, they would have been referred to the mortgage department. Its recorded that this 
happened in 2016, but on that occasion they were referred to the mortgage collections 
department to discuss a small amount of arrears on the account. Mrs D remembers a 
discussion with a branch advisor a few years ago, and this may well be that.
Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs D when their mortgage payments changed. And it sent them 
statements each year which set out that they were on the SVR, and set out how to apply for 
new interest rates. Mr and Mrs D would have been eligible for rates from around 2015 
onwards, but theres no evidence that they asked  and Santander wasnt required to pro-
actively invite them to do so. I dont therefore think that Santander treated them unfairly in 
the rate it charged.
When it comes to converting the mortgage to repayment terms, again theres no evidence 
that Mr and Mrs D made a formal application until 2020. Had they done so, Santander would 
have been required to carry out a full affordability assessment. Thats because a repayment 
mortgage is more expensive, since the capital is paid each month as well as the interest. It 
wouldnt be right to commit Mr and Mrs D to higher payments unless they could afford them. 
Im therefore satisfied that Santander hasnt treated Mr and Mrs D unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman