DRN-2738445
The complaint
Mr K has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined a claim for 
storm damage under his home insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr K found a range of damage to his home following a storm. So, he contacted UKI to make 
an insurance claim. There were delays with UKI sending a surveyor to assess the damage. 
Mr K also had to contact UKI on a number of occasions to try and progress the claim.
Following a surveyors visit, UKI offered a settlement for some of the damage. When Mr K 
followed up on this, UKI told him it was still making a decision on the other parts of the claim. 
Mr K complained to UKI, as he said he had already been told the claim was covered and he 
was unhappy about the delays. A few days later, UKI told Mr K the whole claim had been 
declined.
When UKI replied to the complaint, it said that it had declined the claim because there were 
signs of longstanding issues with each of the affected areas, which indicated workmanship 
issues, wear and tear or gradual damage. It said this wasnt covered by the policy.
So, Mr K complained to this service. Our investigator initially upheld the complaint and said 
that UKI should reconsider it, as the reports indicated the damage was the result of a storm. 
She also said UKI should pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
UKI provided further comments. It accepted there had been delays, which it said was due to 
capacity issues. It had also reviewed the damage again and was still of the view that none of 
it was due to a storm. Our investigator then upheld the complaint in part. She said UKI 
should settle the claim for the damage to the roof, and related internal damage, and to the 
decking, but that the damage to the utility room wasnt storm-related. She also said UKI 
should pay £400 compensation for the delays in dealing with the claim.
As UKI did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 23 March 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, Ive looked at the weather conditions around the time of the claim. 
These showed winds speeds that would be considered storm conditions and at times were 
at hurricane speed. So, I think the answer to the first question is yes.
So, for the second question, Ive looked at the damage. There were four different areas of 
damage. These were the decking in the back garden, the flooring in the utility room, damage 
to a flat roof at the front of the house and damage to a front roof at the back of the house, 
both of which also resulted in internal damage. Looking at each of those, I think that a storm 
could cause each of these types of damage.
Ive therefore considered the third question of whether storm conditions were the main cause 
of the damage. Ive read the evidence provided by both parties, as well as looking at the 
photos.
Looking at the damage to the decking first, Mr K said the decking had lifted due to the storm 
winds. UKI seemed to assess this damage on the basis of a flood claim. It said the decking 
had collapsed, but that it thought this was the result of poor workmanship rather than a flood. 
UKI later said that as the decking was located between two fences and had a hedge growing 
in front of it that this would have sheltered it from the wind.  It also said that the boards were 
turning green, which might indicate they were retaining moisture, which would cause 
damage to the decking over time. It said the photos also showed that the boards were close 
to a hedge, which appeared to be putting pressure on the boards and may have weakened 
the board fixings over time.
I havent seen anything to show why the surveyor thought it was poor workmanship other 
than that he said it must have been. The surveyors report doesnt highlight any specific 
issues to evidence this or to show why that conclusion was reasonable. Ive looked at the 
photos and can see that some of the decking boards had lifted. I think that could have been 
the result of the storm. Ive thought about whether the fences and hedge would have 
provided protection. I can see from the photos that on one side of the garden, the fence 
panels had blown down and on the other had suffered damage. So, I dont think the fence 
panels were able to offer the protection that UKI suggested. Mr K also said that he saw the 
boards being lifted by the winds during the storm. Ive no reason to doubt this. 
Im not persuaded that the discoloration of the boards was evidence that the damage was 
caused by something other than a storm. I cant see that UKI investigated this possibility in 
any way other than by looking at the photos. I also havent seen any evidence of the hedge 
pressing down on the boards. In addition, looking at the same photos as UKI used to make 
its assessment, the hedge looks like it had been maintained. For both of these points, the 
surveyor also didnt identify them as issues or suggest they contributed to or caused the 
damage. I think the evidence indicated that it was more likely than not that the damage was 
the result of the storm. So, I dont think it was fair for UKI to decline this part of the claim and 
I currently intend to say that UKI should settle this part of the claim.
Ive also thought about the roof leaks that caused internal damage. The first was a leak 
through a flat roof into a ground floor room.  Ive looked at the surveyors report and this said 
the damage was due to wear and tear to the roof and poor flashing to the walls. It said the 
roof should have been able to withstand some rain and that it had reached the end of its life. 
The photos also show signs of cracking to the roof surface.
Mr Ks builder said:
it is clear that excessive wind has penetrated the existing roofing system by peeling back 
the flashing, pushing water over the fillet trim, causing bubbling of felt with suspected timber rot and more importantly cracked and lifted around 1m2 of the rendering above the right 
edge of the flashing due to the prying action of the wind against the lead.
Ive thought about this carefully. Looking at the condition of the roof, I think there were clear 
signs of wear and tear to the roof and I think it was reasonable for UKI to put weight on this 
in its assessment. As part of this, I considered the report from Mr Ks builder and the location 
of the internal damage. However, the builders report doesnt persuade me that the issues 
identified were the main cause of the damage. This doesnt mean that Ive discounted what 
the builder found, but I dont think it meant the wear and tear to the roof was irrelevant. 
Having looked at the relevant evidence, I think its more likely than not that the storm 
highlighted the pre-existing issues with the roof and that water entered the roof due to those 
issues. So, I dont currently intend to uphold this part of the complaint, as I think it was 
reasonable for UKI to decline this part of the claim on the basis of wear and tear.
However, Ive considered whether the internal damage around the ground floor bay window 
should be covered under the accidental damage part of the policy. The policy said:
Accidental damage is sudden and unintentional physical damage that happens 
unexpectedly.
Having considered that definition and the circumstances of this damage, I currently intend to 
say that UKI should deal with the damage around the bay window as accidental damage. I 
think it is more likely than not that the internal damage was sudden, unintentional and 
unexpected. 
Ive also considered the damage to the flat roof at the front of the house, which caused 
internal damage in a bedroom. The surveyors report only briefly touched on this and said 
water has come through the window and it looks like the seal has come loose on the 
inside. There were also photos of the affected internal area and a photo of part of the roof, 
although the report didnt include any assessment of the roof condition. 
I would often say that it was reasonable for an insurer to rely on its surveyors findings, but in 
this instance, I dont think it was. This is because, in my view, the surveyor didnt carry out a 
thorough enough assessment. I dont think the photos show that the damage was caused in 
the way that the surveyor said it was. The surveyor also made no comment on the condition 
of the roof and there was only a partial photo of it. Im aware that UKI then assessed the 
photo and said there was no evidence of storm damage, but I dont think it was fair to make 
that decision based on a partial photo of a roof.
Ive also looked at the report from Mr Ks builder. This described the damage as:
The severe weather has blown apart guttering and split the gutter union - as a result the 
excessive amount of water from over 12m2 of roof surface has penetrated the conventional 
lead roofing system reaching the interior of the property, stains on ceiling below are present. 
Resealing of lead and replacement of gutter union should
prevent further ingress of water.
I think this is a credible explanation for the damage and this seemed to be based on a proper 
assessment of the roof and how this resulted in the interior damage. So, I currently intend to 
say that UKI should deal with this part of the claim as storm damage.
The fourth area of damage was to the utility room floor. The surveyors report said:
The customer advised there is the water coming in the back door, we can confirm this is not 
a one off as we can see from the algae around the door that this has happened before, many times. The leak through the door has also damaged the laminate however the damage 
to the laminate is not from a single event and the laminate is very knackered and suffering 
from pre-existing issues.
Ive also looked at the photos and these show the condition of the floor and the green algae 
on the outside of the door frame. Mr K didnt provide any kind of report about the floor, but 
said that it had been in good condition before the storm. In this instance, I think it was 
reasonable for UKI to rely on its surveyors findings and to decide that this was an ongoing 
issue, rather than as the result of a one-off storm event. I think that the surveyors 
explanation was credible and I havent seen evidence that persuades me that the main 
cause of the damage was the storm. So, I currently intend to say it was reasonable for UKI 
to decline this part of the claim.
Ive also considered whether this should be covered as accidental damage, but dont think it 
should be. Given the issues the surveyor highlighted and the location of the damage, Im not 
currently persuaded that this meets the definition of accidental damage.
Ive also looked at the overall handling of the claim. I can see that Mr K had to follow up with 
UKI on multiple occasions in order to try and progress the claim and to be told the outcome. 
Mr K also seemed to be told that part of his claim had been accepted, but was then later told 
that it had all been declined. An insurer is entitled to continue to assess a claim and later to 
decline it should it find evidence to show that it wasnt covered by the terms of the policy. 
However, I think that in Mr Ks case, UKI took longer than it should have to reach that point 
and for it to explain its decision to him. I also think there were issues with the surveyors 
assessment and findings.
Ive also thought UKI should pay Mr K compensation. I currently intend to say that UKI 
should pay £400 compensation. I think there were a number of issues with the handling of 
the claim and the quality of the survey report. I also think that Mr K had a loss of expectation 
by initially being told that part of the claim was accepted and it then being declined. To be 
clear, this is in addition to the £50 that UKI previously offered Mr K as part of a complaint 
about the delays at the start of his claim, which doesnt form part of my findings.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 22 April 2021. Both parties responded before that date.
Mr K said he wanted to get the complaint resolved, but that he believed the surveyor didnt 
cover everything in his report. Mr K said there hadnt been a problem with the door before 
and the property was prone to external algae. Mr K said there also hadnt been a problem 
with water ingress through the ground floor roof previously, that the front roof wasnt 
inspected by the surveyor and the surveyor only glanced at the decking before making his 
decision and didnt carry out any further checks on it.
UKI said it had nothing further to add.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my decision to uphold this complaint in part and for 
the reasons previously given. Ive considered the points that Mr K raised in response to my 
provisional decision but these dont cause me to change my view about the outcome of this 
complaint and how the claim should be dealt with.
  Putting things right
As a result, UKI needs to settle the claim for the damage to the decking, the internal damage 
on the ground floor and the damage to the roof at the front of the house and the related 
internal damage. It must also pay Mr K £400 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the handling of the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is upheld in part. I require U K Insurance Limited to:
Settle the claim for the damage to the decking, the internal damage on the ground floor 
and the damage to the roof at the front of the house and the related internal damage.
Pay £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the handling of 
this claim.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman