DRN-4024875
The complaint
Mr P complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, did not treat him fairly when it 
recovered an overpaid refund.
What happened
Two of Mr Ps Halifax accounts were targeted by fraudsters who took £490 from him. Mr P 
quickly realised he had been subject to a scam. He contacted Halifax and it agreed to refund 
everything that had been taken. However, instead of refunding £490, Halifax refunded £840 
over several transactions instead.
Mr P then called Halifax to say he thought it had made a mistake and had paid him too much 
back. Halifax told him it hadnt made a mistake and that even if it had, it wouldnt seek to 
recover any money from him. However, Mr P then received a letter from Halifax to say it had 
paid him £350 too much and it was going to take that money back. The funds were debited 
from Mr Ps account on 18 February 2022.
Mr P complained to Halifax. He said he thought Halifax was questioning his integrity. He also 
said taking the money back all at once had caused financial difficulties and had affected his 
ongoing and longstanding health condition. Halifax recognised that it had made mistakes 
and offered to pay £150 to Mr P to compensate him for those errors.
Mr P did not accept Halifaxs offer and so he complained to this service. Our investigator 
thought Halifaxs offer of £150 was fair. Mr P did not agree with that view. He said he felt 
Halifax had accused him of fraud and that hed had to sell property to bring his overdraft 
within its limit. Our investigator asked Mr P to provide some more information about what 
hed had to sell, but no reply was received.
As Mr P did not agree with our investigators view, the matter was passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision because I thought Halifax should pay a larger sum of 
compensation to Mr P. I said: 
As things stand, I intend to uphold the complaint and require Halifax to pay a total of 
£350 in compensation to Mr P. Ill explain why below.
Halifax accepts that it made a mistake when it refunded more than it should have 
done to Mr P. It also accepts it made a further mistake when it assured Mr P that 
even if it had paid him too much, it would not seek to recover any money it had 
overpaid. I know Mr P was upset because he thought that, by recovering the 
overpaid refund, Halifax was accusing him of wrongdoing. However, I can see that 
Halifax accepts it made the error and that Mr P had not caused it.
As Halifax accepts it made a mistake, I have considered the impact of that on Mr P.
As I said above, Mr P contacted Halifax when it first paid him too much to check 
whether the amount was correct. Halifax assured Mr P that it was. He then relied on 
that reassurance and I can see from the bank statements Halifax provided that the 
money was then steadily spent from his account.
It looks as though Halifax decided on 4 February 2022 that it was going to recover 
the overpaid £350 from Mr P on 18 February 2022. It appears Mr P received a letter 
about that on 8 February 2022. He effectively had ten days notice that Halifax would 
deduct what was a fairly significant sum from his account all at once.
Mr P has what I understand to be an ongoing and longstanding health condition. I 
can see from Halifaxs internal notes that it was aware of these health matters. It had 
noted he was vulnerable.
Even though it was aware of Mr Ps vulnerability, I have not seen anything to suggest 
that Halifax considered the impact its decision to recover the overpaid refund in such 
a short period of time would have on Mr P. I can see that debiting the money from his 
bank account on 18 February 2022 took him very close to his overdraft limit almost 
two weeks before his monthly salary would have been paid. In addition to that, Mr P 
also told Halifax that he was only on half pay from his employer at that time.
I can see how being unexpectedly very close to an overdraft limit almost two weeks 
before a salary payment is due would be very stressful, particularly on a reduced 
salary. The amount Halifax took back was almost a third of Mr Ps income that 
month. I accept that he would have been worried about how he would meet his 
outgoings for the rest of the month. I can also see how that stressful situation was 
exacerbated for Mr P because of his health conditions. In his telephone call to Halifax 
on 8 February 2022, Mr P set out in detail the impact Halifaxs recovery decision was 
having on his health.
Mr P also told us that he had to sell property online so that he didnt exceed his 
overdraft limit. Unfortunately, Mr P didnt give us any further information about what 
that property was.
However, I can see he transferred £300 into his Halifax account on 21 February 2022 
and the nature of that transaction suggests it could have come from an online sale. 
On that basis, I accept that it is possible Mr P did have to sell property in order to 
have enough funds to live on.
Putting all of this together then, Halifax mistakenly £350 refunded too much to Mr P 
after hed been targeted by fraudsters. It then assured him it hadnt made a mistake 
and even if it had, it wouldnt seek to recover anything from him. Mr P relied on that 
reassurance and spent the additional funds hed been paid. Halifax then gave Mr P a 
limited amount of notice that a significant sum of £350 would be debited from his 
account. It didnt consider what the impact would be on Mr P even though it knew he 
had a health condition that made him vulnerable. As a result of Halifaxs mistake, Mr 
Ps health deteriorated, and he may have had to sell property to avoid exceeding his 
overdraft limit.
On that basis, my provisional view is that the £150 Halifax has already paid to Mr P is 
not sufficient to put things right in this case. It seems to me that recovering the funds 
at short notice and without consideration of his wider circumstances caused Mr P 
some considerable distress, upset and worry about his financial position when 
Halifax knew he was vulnerable.
As things stand, I intend to tell Halifax to pay a total of £350 to Mr P to put things right. I understand Halifax has already paid £150, so I plan to tell it to pay a further 
£200 to Mr P.
Mr P did not provide me with any further information or evidence to consider. Halifax 
responded to say it accepted my provisional view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided me with any further information or evidence, I see no reasons to 
depart from my provisional findings. 
So for the reasons set out above, Halifax will need to pay £350 in total to compensate Mr P 
for the errors I have identified above. 
Putting things right
Halifax must pay £350 in total to Mr P to put things right as I have set out above. As I 
understand £150 has already been paid, Halifax must make arrangements to pay a further 
£200 to Mr P. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require  Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax to put things 
right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman