DRN-3142869
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, approved her 
for two credit accounts which she feels were unaffordable for her at those times. 
What happened
In June 2017, Miss R applied for a credit card account with Tesco Bank. Her application was 
approved, and Tesco Bank issued Miss R with a credit card with a £2,800 limit. The following 
month, in August 2017, Miss R applied for a second credit account with Tesco Bank. This 
application was also approved, and Miss R was issued with another credit card by Tesco 
Bank, this time with a £1,400 credit limit.
In 2021, Miss R raised a complaint with Tesco Bank because she felt that the credit 
accounts that shed been approved for hadnt been affordable for her at those times, and 
that this should have been evident to Tesco Bank, had they conducted checks into her 
financial position before approving her for the accounts.
Tesco Bank looked at Miss Rs complaint. But they noted that they had undertaken checks 
into Miss Rs financial position before approving her account applications, and they 
confirmed that thered been nothing resulting from those checks which they felt should have 
given them reasonable cause to suspect that Miss R might not be able to afford the credit 
that shed applied for.
Miss R wasnt satisfied with Tesco Banks response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that there had 
been nothing resulting from the checks that Tesco Bank had undertaken into Miss Rs 
financial position that should have given them cause to not offer the credit accounts to Miss 
R, and so they also didnt uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Miss R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before approving a 
customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of credit available to a 
customer on an existing line of credit, the business would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate borrower focussed checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a 
customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
Tesco Bank appear to have done that here. And I say this because its evident that they took 
details from Miss R about her annual income to ensure that Miss R would, in all likelihood, 
be able to afford the potential repayments of the credit that shed applied for, and because 
Tesco Bank also obtained further information about Miss R from a credit reference agency to 
get a better understanding of her wider financial position at times of her applications.
At the time of the first application, Miss R advised Tesco Bank that she had an annual 
income of approximately £22,000 per annum. Using this and other information that Tesco 
Bank obtained from a credit reference agency about Miss R, Tesco Bank felt that Miss R 
would, in all likelihood, be able to afford the potential monthly repayments that she may incur 
on a credit account with a credit limit of £2,800  which, having reviewed the historical 
statements of this account, I can see were approximately £50 per month at times when Miss 
R maintained the balance of the account near that credit limit.
Eight weeks later, at the time of the second credit account application, Tesco Bank 
undertook a similar check, taking into account the credit theyd already provided to Miss R by 
way of the first credit account. Once again, Tesco Bank felt that the information that they 
assessed regarding Miss Rs income and financial position meant that it was likely that Miss 
R would be able to afford the potential monthly payments which may have become due on 
this second credit account with a credit limit of £1.400  which the historical statements show 
were approximately £25 per month when Miss R maintained the balance of the second 
account near that credit limit.
Its notable that Tesco Banks assessment of Miss Rs income and expenditure included an 
expenditure amount for Miss Rs monthly housing costs which was added by Tesco Bank 
themselves, even though Miss R had declared that her monthly housing costs at that time 
were zero. This means that Tesco Bank used a monthly expenditure amount for their 
creditworthiness assessments that was greater than Miss Rs stated monthly expenditure, 
and so I feel an element of conservatism was present in Tesco Banks assessments.
As such, having reviewed the information that Tesco Bank used to assess Miss Rs 
creditworthiness for both credit account applications, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for 
Tesco Bank to have concluded that Miss R would, in all likelihood, have been able to afford 
the monthly payments that may have become due on those accounts, and I say this because 
it appears evident that Miss Rs monthly income and expenditure were such that she had the 
monthly disposable income available to her to allow her to make the highest potential 
monthly payments that may have become due on the accounts while still leaving her with a 
reasonable amount of unspent disposable monthly income.
It's also notable that the information that Tesco Bank obtained from the credit reference 
agency about Miss Rs wider financial position didnt include any adverse information such 
as defaults or missed payments on other existing credit that might have given Tesco Bank 
cause to suspect that Miss R might have been in financial difficulty at that time. Indeed, 
having reviewed this credit file information, I dont feel that it was unreasonable for Tesco 
Bank to have concluded that Miss R was managing her existing credit without significant 
incident at that time.
Its notable that Miss R did have a relatively large amount of already existing credit at the 
time that she applied for the Tesco Bank credit accounts, but I dont feel that the amount of 
existing credit was excessive to the point where Tesco Bank should have felt that any offer 
of further credit to Miss R should have taken place, especially given that its evident that 
Miss R used the second credit account to perform a balance transfer from other existing 
credit debt, and so benefited from the promotional 0% interest rate on balance transfers that 
was available to her for a period on that account.
Im aware that Miss R feels that, had Tesco Bank conducted more in depth checks into her 
financial position at that time, such as reviewing her current account statements, that these 
would have demonstrated that she was maintaining her current account in an overdrawn position and thus that she wasnt in the financial position to be able to afford any further 
credit at that time.
I can appreciate Miss Rs position here, to a degree. But a credit provider is obliged to 
undertake checks into an applicants financial position that are reasonable and proportionate 
in regard to the amount of credit being applied for. And I dont feel that it would have been 
reasonable and proportionate for Tesco Bank to have asked to review Miss Rs current 
account statements, given the relatively low amount of credit being applied for by Miss R. 
Indeed, I would only expect a credit provider to undertake such additional checks when a 
significantly larger amount of credit was being applied for, especially when the checks that 
Tesco Bank had already undertaken hadnt highlighted any potential areas for concern, 
including for instance that Miss R hadnt incurred any adverse credit file reporting for 
exceeding her agreed overdraft on her current account.
Finally, having reviewed Miss Rs current account statements myself, I note that while there 
were periods when Miss R maintained her account in an overdrawn position, at no time did 
Miss R exceed her agreed overdraft for any notable period of time and it was also often the 
case that Miss Rs current account held a positive balance. 
It should also be noted that maintaining a current account overdrawn but within an agreed 
overdraft wouldnt necessarily be considered as an indicator of financial difficulty, given that 
the overdraft agreement effectively allows a customer to maintain the balance of their 
account within the overdraft limit in such a way, so that the maintaining of a current account 
in such a position can be a legitimate customer choice.
All of which means that Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Tesco Bank to have 
concluded that the credit being provided to Miss R would, in all likelihood, be affordable for 
her at the times of the account applications. And it follows from this that my final decision 
here will be that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Tesco Bank to take any 
further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss R was wanting here, but I hope that shell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman