DRN-4191660
The complaint
Mrs T and Mr T complain about an error by Royal & Sun Alliance Limited which caused their 
home insurance policy to be cancelled and about the subsequent handling of two claims 
under that policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a very 
brief summary here.
Mrs T and Mr T had home insurance bought through a broker which was underwritten by 
RSA. 
When the broker moved their business to a different underwriter, an administrative error on 
RSAs part  which is entirely admitted by RSA - meant that Mrs T and Mr Ts policy was 
cancelled rather than renewed.
This became apparent only when Mrs T and Mr T made a claim relating to the theft of a 
bicycle. Just after that, they also made a claim for some furniture stolen from a storage 
warehouse.
When the situation became clear, RSA  quite rightly  agreed to treat the claims as if Mrs T 
and Mr T still had cover with them. What their agent actually said to Mr T was that RSA 
would honour the two claims.
Mrs T and Mr T werent happy with the settlement offered by RSA for the two claims. They 
felt the amount offered on the first claim, to replace the bicycle theyd had stolen, was too 
low. And they were unhappy that the second claim (for the furniture) was declined 
altogether, particularly given theyd been told the claims would be honoured.
Mrs T and Mr T made complaints to RSA. They apologised for the original administrative 
error which had caused the policy to be cancelled and for the fact that Mr T had been misled 
by what their agent had said about the claims being honoured.
They paid Mrs T and Mr T £125 in total in compensation for the trouble and upset theyd 
been caused.
Mrs T and Mr T werent happy with this outcome and brought their complaint(s) to us. As our 
investigator was looking into things, RSA made an offer to increase the amount of 
compensation to, in total, £400.
Our investigator thought this was fair compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the 
two errors. They also thought RSA had settled the bicycle claim appropriately and were 
entitled to decline the furniture claim.
Mrs T and Mr T disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator explained in a very clear and comprehensive way why they felt the claims 
were handled fairly and reasonably.
I wont repeat all of their reasoning here but suffice to say I agree with it. In short, the amount 
RSA offered to settle the bicycle claim allows Mrs T and Mr T to purchase a suitable and 
equivalent replacement. 
The furniture was not covered because it was stolen from a storage warehouse. Mrs T and 
Mr T accept that the policy terms mean the furniture wasnt strictly-speaking covered. They 
think RSA should pay the claim because their agent told them RSA would honour the two 
claims.
I dont agree that RSA should be bound by that. It was a careless use of language  and it 
unfortunately raised expectations which were then disappointed. 
I agree Mr T and Mrs T should be compensated for that. But I dont expect RSA to pay out 
on a claim which is clearly not covered because of a simple one-off error (or ambiguity) in 
communication. 
Putting things right
In brief then, RSA made errors which led to the policy being cancelled and later to raised 
expectations on Mrs T and Mr Ts part.
Those errors have led to understandable frustration and a degree of convenience for Mrs T 
and Mr T. And I recognise that Mrs T and Mr T will have experienced some stress and worry 
for a period of time when it looked as if they might not be covered at all for the loss of the 
bicycle.
I think the £400 in total RSA offered to compensate Mrs T and Mr T for the impact of those 
errors is fair and reasonable given the degree of trouble and upset caused and the time it 
lasted. 
And, as I say, I dont think there was anything unfair or unreasonable in the way the claims 
were handled once RSA had made the decision to regard Mrs T and Mr T as covered even 
though the policy had been cancelled.
Im upholding the complaint because RSA hadnt resolved it to Mrs T and Mr Ts satisfaction 
 or in my view fairly and reasonably  until after the complaint was brought to us. Their offer 
to pay compensation at a level which Im satisfied is appropriate didnt come until the 
complaint was in our hands.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs T and Mr Ts complaint.
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must pay Mrs T and Mr T a further £275 in 
compensation for their trouble and upset, to bring the total paid to £400 altogether.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman