DRN-4190627
The complaint
Mr J complains about how his insurer, Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco), covered his 
campervan under his motor insurance policy. 
Any reference to Tesco in this decision includes their agents. 
What happened
Mr J had a motor insurance policy covering his campervan, which he took out in February 
2009. Tesco took over the business of the insurer providing cover in 2012. While Tesco 
didnt offer campervan insurance, they said theyd continue to provide cover for Mr Js 
campervan. And they also subsequently confirmed cover in writing in February 2014. Mr J 
also confirmed at each subsequent renewal Tesco would continue to cover his campervan. 
When he phoned Tesco in February 2022 to confirm they would continue cover (for the year 
from February 2022) he was initially told Tesco didnt provide cover for campervans (and 
theyd been providing cover for the vehicle as a van, not a campervan). But as theyd issued 
a renewal document for the vehicle, they agreed to continue to provide cover (for a premium 
of £161.67  compared to £450.88 for the year from February 2021).
Mr J then received a renewal notice dated January 2023 for the year from February 2023 
(for a premium of £155.76). But a couple of weeks later he received a letter from Tesco 
saying they wouldnt renew his policy, which was due for renewal in ten days time. Mr J 
contacted Tesco to query the letter but was told they werent going to insure his campervan. 
Tesco provided a contact number for the British Insurance Brokers Association (BIBA). Mr J 
subsequently took out a new policy for his campervan, at an annual premium of £216.92. 
Mr J was unhappy at what had happened and Tesco declining to provide cover for his 
campervan. So he complained to Tesco. Mr J subsequently noticed the usual direct debit for 
the policy premium hadnt been taken by Tesco, which he took to mean his policy had been 
cancelled. Tesco subsequently wrote to Mr J confirming cancellation of his policy.
Tesco then issued a final response to Mr Js complaint, which they upheld. They 
acknowledged theyd written to Mr J saying that (due to a change in their underwriting 
criteria which led them to decide not to insure any type of van) they wouldnt continue to 
provide cover for Mr Js campervan. However, when Mr J challenged this decision, Tesco 
accepted hed been wrongly advised the underwriter wouldnt change their decision. But the 
underwriter subsequently (the day before the policy was due to renew) decided they would 
offer cover and the policy automatically renewed (at an annual premium of £155.76). 
However, Mr J wasnt aware of this before the policy renewed and had already taken out 
cover with another insurer, following his being wrongly told the underwriter wouldnt change 
their decision not to provide cover. Tesco also acknowledged Mr J contacted them at the 
beginning of March 2023 (when he noticed the direct debit hadnt been collected) and at that 
point (given Mr J had taken out cover elsewhere) the policy was cancelled. Because Mr J 
had been wrongly advised, Tesco apologised and awarded £50 in compensation.
Mr J then complained to this service. Given what had happened with the renewal of his 
policy in 2023, he wasnt sure whether hed previously been properly insured by Tesco (as 
the indications were theyd classified his vehicle as a van, not a campervan, from February 
2021 onwards). And the episode had been very stressful for him and his wife. He didnt think 
Tescos award of compensation was sufficient in the circumstances.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Tesco hadnt acted fairly. He thought that 
as Tesco had decided (in 2012) not to offer campervan insurance cover, theyd then acted 
fairly in continuing to cover Mr Js campervan. However, when Mr J was told Tesco wouldnt 
be offering to continue cover from February 2023, he was then wrongly told the underwriter 
wouldnt be changing their decision not to offer cover. As a result, Mr J took out alternative 
cover, at a higher cost when Tesco then renewed the policy. So, Mr J suffered financial loss. 
While Mr J felt he hadnt been properly insured (as Tesco had recorded a different vehicle 
details) Tesco had recorded the vehicle in a way the underwriter would continue to cover. So, 
Mr J would have been covered for his campervan. And while the policy did renew, the first 
premium wasnt then taken until late March 2023 (not late February as Mr J had expected).
To put things right, the investigator thought Tesco should compensate Mr J for the financial 
loss hed incurred from having to take out a policy elsewhere at a higher premium. They 
should reimburse the difference between the premium hed paid for his new policy and the 
premium he would have paid had his policy with Tesco continued. But the investigator 
thought the £50 compensation awarded by Tesco was fair and reasonable.
Tesco disagreed with the investigators view and requested an Ombudsman review the 
complaint. They said the policy hadnt been cancelled, it had been automatically renewed (at 
a premium of £155.65) and could have continued, had Mr J chosen to do so. While 
understanding Mr J didnt want to renew because of being provided with conflicting 
information, it was his decision to cancel his Tesco policy. When he could have kept it (and 
cancelled his new policy) so avoiding the higher premium. So, the decision to take out a new 
policy with another insurer was his, not because of any error by Tesco. 
Also, Tesco couldnt be sure that Mr Js new policy contained the same cover and other 
conditions, so it wasnt possible to confirm the policies were on the same like-for-like  basis. 
It could be his new policy included a higher level of cover (which might be reflected in the 
premium). So it was unreasonable to ask Tesco to cover the difference. While accepting Mr 
J took out a new policy by the time Tesco renewed their policy (and it would have been 
inconvenient for him to cancel the new policy and continue with the Tesco policy) this was 
reflected in the compensation awarded in their final response. So, it was unreasonable to 
ask Tesco to reimburse the difference between the two premiums.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue in Mr Js complaint is Tesco initially declining to renew his policy when it came 
up for renewal in February 2023. Mr J says Tesco had previously agreed to provide cover for 
his campervan, even though theyd generally decided not to insure campervans when they 
acquired the business of the previous insurer in 2012. And because he was told the decision 
not to renew his policy wouldnt be changed by the underwriter, he took out cover elsewhere 
(at a higher premium). Mr J also doesnt think the £50 compensation offered by Tesco is 
sufficient for the stress hes suffered.
Tesco accept they wrongly advised Mr J that the underwriters wouldnt change their 
decision. But the underwriter subsequently decided they would offer cover and the policy automatically renewed. Tesco also say it was Mr Js decision to cancel the policy (having 
taken out cover elsewhere) and it would have been open to him to continue with their policy 
(and cancel the new policy). So, they dont think they should cover the additional premium 
hes paid for his new policy. They also say its not possible to compare the two policies to 
ensure they are on a like-for-like basis.
Ive considered both views carefully, together with the supporting information and evidence 
provided by Mr J and Tesco. Having done so, Im more persuaded by Mr J view than by 
Tesco. Ill set out why Ive come to that conclusion, and what I think Tesco should do to put 
things right.
First, Ive noted while Tesco made a general decision not to cover campervans, they 
continued to provide cover for Mr Js vehicle from the point they took over the policy from the 
previous insurer (underwriter) in 2012. Ive seen the renewal documents from that date and 
its clear Mr Js vehicle was covered under the policy. Ive also not seen any evidence Mr J 
made a claim during this period but based on what Ive seen he would have been covered 
under the policy had he had occasion to do so.
Turning to the events at the time of the renewal of the policy in February 2023, Tesco did 
write to Mr J saying they wouldnt renew the policy. Ultimately, its a commercial decision for 
Tesco as to what cover they are willing to provide, so I cant say their decision was 
unreasonable. Underwriting criteria and other policy terms are subject to periodic review and 
its for an insurer to determine what cover they are willing to provide (for which types of 
vehicle) and on what terms.
However, in the circumstances of this case, Mr J was clearly told (from the notes of the call 
and from what Tesco subsequently accepted in their final response) Tesco (as underwriter) 
wouldnt cover Mr Js campervan. And that the [underwriting] criteria had changed recently. 
Mr J expresses his frustration that, having provided cover for 14 years, Tesco will no longer 
cover his campervan. Mr J is told that while the issue has been referred to the underwriting 
team, they wont change their decision so Mr J will need to obtain cover elsewhere. Mr J 
asks about the reference to BIBA in the letter from Tesco saying they wouldnt continue 
cover for his campervan, and the call handler provides him with a contact number. 
Given what he was told and with his renewal date approaching, I think it reasonable for Mr J 
to conclude Tesco wouldnt provide cover, wouldnt change their decision and that he should 
obtain cover elsewhere. Which is what he did. From details of his new policy, it appears he 
obtained a quote from a broker the same day as the call to Tesco, and he took out the policy 
a few days after that (and before Tesco said they would continue to provide cover). 
Tesco say Mr J could have continued his policy with them and cancel his new policy (they 
say they would consider reimbursing him the £35 cancellation fee the new insurer would 
have charged). However, given what had happened, I dont think it unreasonable for Mr J to 
want to continue with his new policy, rather than revert to Tesco (it wouldnt have been 
unreasonable of him to think he might not be faced with a similar situation in the future).
On the point about whether the new policy was provided on the same like-for-like basis as 
his Tesco policy, the terms of the former appear like the latter  although the annual mileage 
under his new policy is higher than under the Tesco policy. So, I think it reasonable to think 
they are broadly comparable (although the higher annual mileage limit on his new policy 
would, all other things being equal, be likely to mean the premium would be higher). 
But part of the new premium payable is a £35.54 arrangement fee and a £15 administration 
fee. While I havent seen the terms of business for the broker or new insurer, its likely 
neither would be refundable should Mr J have cancelled his new policy (and reverted to Tesco). And he would also have had to pay a £35 cancellation fee (even if Tesco 
subsequently reimbursed it).
Tesco say it was Mr Js decision to cancel his policy with them, so they shouldnt be asked to 
reimburse the difference between the premium for his new policy and the premium for the 
Tesco policy. The cancellation letter from Tesco does indicate they are cancelling the policy 
as requested, which indicates it was Mr Js request. However, as Ive concluded earlier, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Mr J to want to continue with his new policy (and cancel 
the policy Tesco had renewed the day before it was due for renewal, after hed been advised 
by them to take out cover elsewhere). 
Taking all these factors into account, Ive concluded Tesco didnt act fairly and reasonably 
towards Mr J.
Having reached this conclusion, Ive considered what I think Tesco need to do to put things 
right. Looking at the premiums for the two policies, leaving aside the two administration and 
arrangement fees, the premiums are broadly comparable (allowing for the likely impact of the 
higher annual mileage limit for his new policy). So, I dont think Tesco should reimburse the 
net difference in premium. But I do think they should reimburse the fees Mr J incurred in 
taking out his new policy (£35.54 and £15 respectively). In reaching this conclusion, Ive 
considered what Tesco have said about their willingness to reimburse the £35 fee Mr J would 
have had to pay to cancel his new policy and revert to the Tesco policy.
On the issue of compensation, Tesco say their offer of £50 compensation includes an 
element for the inconvenience of Mr J having to take out a new policy. Looking at the 
circumstances of the case, including what Mr J has told us about the stress from what 
happened, I think Mr J would have suffered distress and inconvenience  but not just from 
the inconvenience of having to take out a new policy. Taking account of all the circumstances 
of the case, I think £50 for distress and inconvenience would be reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint. I require 
Tesco Underwriting Limited to:
Reimburse Mr J the arrangement fee (£35.54) and administration fee (£15) incurred 
in taking out his new policy with another insurer.
Pay Mr J £50 for distress and inconvenience.
Tesco Underwriting Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell them Mr J accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman