DRN-3761062
The complaint
Miss N complains she was the victim of an investment scam and that Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax didnt do enough to stop that from happening or to recover her money.  
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Miss N came into contact with someone claiming to be an investment broker who advised 
her to invest in cryptocurrency. She was told to make payments to a cryptocurrency 
exchange company, before transferring the funds to an online wallet in her name. Between 
22 November and 26 November 2021, she made five online transfers totalling £14,164.10. 
Miss N was sent a link to download a trading app and the broker explained how to deposit 
money onto the trading app via the crypto exchange. The broker would then make trades on 
her behalf.  Each time she deposited money, the broker would ask her to send screenshots 
of her account, telling her what steps to take next and which buttons to click.
On 24 November, Halifax contacted Miss N regarding a payment of £11,600 and, following 
the brokers advice, she said she was acting alone, and the payment was authorised.  
Miss N realised shed been the victim of a scam when she asked to withdraw some funds 
and the broker told her to invest more money. She contacted Halifax but it said it couldnt 
recover the money or issue a refund.
Miss N complained to Halifax with the assistance of a representative. The representative 
explained that Miss N had thought this was a genuine investment, that shed been brain-
washed, and that Halifax should have known that scammers often tell their victims what to 
say when they call to authorise payments. They argued the earlier payments were also 
unusual, particularly the payment of £2,324.10 on 22 November which shouldnt have been 
authorised because it was to a crypto exchange company. The representative argued that 
Miss N had made five payments ranging from £20 to £11,600 in the space of two days which 
was unusual and should have caused Halifax to intervene. 
Halifax maintained its position suggesting Miss N should contact the cryptocurrency 
exchange company. Miss N wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service stating 
she wanted a full refund. She explained the broker had been very friendly and had sent her 
videos and photographs and had communicated with her for several days before raising the 
issue of cryptocurrency. He told her hed been a broker for two years and sent her 
screenshots of his trading account to demonstrate how much profit hed made. She 
explained shed been allowed to withdraw a total of £51.50 which made her confident the 
investment was genuine and that she was told the more money she invested the higher the 
returns would be. 
 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said that as the money was 
transferred into an account in Miss Ns name, the CRM Code didnt apply.  She noted Halifax 
had stopped the payment of £11,600 and discussed it with Miss N. During the call it had 
explained it needed to check Miss N hadnt been contacted by anyone on social media, a 
broker or a financial advisor and Miss N had confirmed no one had contacted her. Our 
investigator accepted Miss N had been coached by the broker but without Halifax knowing 
about the existence of the third-party, it wouldnt have known it was a scam.
Our investigator concluded Halifax had provided a warning during the call describing what a 
scam might look like and things fraudsters might say and she concluded Miss N was so 
convinced the investment was genuine that there was little else it could have done.
Miss Ns representative further argued that even though Miss N had been coached, Halifax 
should have gone further to protect her. They said the intervention should have taken place 
on the initial payment of £2,324.10 as this was considerably outside of Miss Ns usual 
spending behaviour, with most payments being no greater than £200 and to an account in 
her own name. They said if Halifax had provided a warning at an earlier stage, multiple 
warnings could have contributed to breaking the spell of the scammer.
Miss Ns representative also argued that the FCA had ruled in June 2021 that the 
cryptocurrency exchange company Miss N had used couldnt conduct any regulated 
activities in the UK and this shouldve been a further warning to Halifax that something was 
wrong. They commented Halifaxs staff are trained to identify the signs of coaching and 
when Miss N made the £11,600 payment, her account balance depreciated drastically, 
which was a clear sign of a potential fraud, meaning Halifax should have blocked the 
payment and/or invoked the banking protocol. 
Our investigator said £2,324.10 wasnt enough to trigger fraud warnings and that from time 
to time, consumers are expected to make higher payments. She observed that Miss N had 
made a £1,000 payment to the crypto exchange within twelve months of the payment and 
there were several payments of £500 to other payees. She also noted that the balance left in 
the account was over £7,000 and the cryptocurrency exchange wasnt a new payee, so she 
didnt accept £2,324.10 was significantly unusual.
She explained that cryptocurrency isnt regulated in the UK and banks are not required to 
stop payments sent to cryptocurrency exchanges. And the Banking Protocol should only be 
involved if the bank is sufficiently concerned that a fraud is taking place and, as Halifax didnt 
know someone else was helping Miss N trade, there wasnt anything further it could 
reasonably have done.
Miss N remained dissatisfied and has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Miss N authorised the payments. This is because they were made 
by her using the legitimate security credentials provided to her by Halifax. Miss N believes 
shes entitled to a refund because, even though she authorised the payments, she was the 
victim of a scam and Halifax should have either done more to stop that happening or help 
her get the money back.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that have resulted in 
disappointing returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using 
sales methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not 
necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making 
a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a 
gain for himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud 
Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. But, although Miss N didnt intend her money to go to scammers, she did 
authorise the disputed payments. Halifax is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a 
scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though 
they authorised the payment.
Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, this was a 
genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, Halifax has an obligation to be alert 
to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, so I need to consider 
whether Halifax ought to have intervened to warn Miss N when she tried to make the 
payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect Halifax to 
intervene with a view to protecting its customers from financial harm due to fraud.
the first payment
Miss Ns representative has argued that Halifax shouldve blocked the first payment Miss N 
made on the basis it was for a higher amount than she was accustomed to paying and it was 
suspicious because the payee was a cryptocurrency exchange company. I dont think the 
payment was sufficiently unusual to have triggered a warning because it wasnt to a new 
payee and while Miss N did generally use the account for smaller payments, there were 
some larger payments and £2,324.10 isnt so high that it was unreasonable for Halifax not to 
have blocked it. 
Ive also considered whether the payment was suspicious, and I dont think it was. As our 
investigator has pointed out, even though cryptocurrency isnt regulated in the UK, banks 
arent required to block all payments to cryptocurrency exchanges and Miss N had 
previously made payments to other cryptocurrency exchanges, so this alone wasnt enough 
to have triggered fraud warnings. Further, even if Halifax had intervened at this point, Ive no 
reason to conclude the outcome of the call would have been any different to the outcome of 
the subsequent call.
the call
Halifax concluded £11,600 was an unusual payment, blocked it and contacted Miss N. I 
dont think it doing so was unreasonable or unfair. Ive listened to the call and Im satisfied 
that Halifax asked Miss N sufficiently probing questions, warned her about the risk of fraud 
and told her about the various methods used by scammers.
Unfortunately, during the call, Miss N stuck to the advice given by the broker, hiding the 
involvement of the third-party from Halifax. While I understand Miss N feels shes lost out 
because Halifax failed to pick up on this, I dont think theres anything else it could 
reasonably have done and in the circumstances it wouldnt be fair to make it refund the 
money. 
Further, its clear Miss N was convinced this was a genuine investment and even if she had 
told Halifax about the broker, I dont think theres anything it could have said to talk her out of 
going ahead with the payment. Overall, Im satisfied Halifax took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as well 
as the steps they took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Miss N lost 
such a significant amount of money. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Halifax 
is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman