DRN-3122154
The complaint
Mr M complains about the sale of his short-term income protection policy by 
Lifesearch Partners Limited.
What happened
Mr M had an existing short-term income protection policy through an insurer (that Ill call 
Policy A). That provided £805 monthly benefit for a premium of £31.72 per month. The 
policy provided back to day one cover. In other words, when a valid claim was made, 
benefit would be backdated to the date he stopped work after the deferred period had 
ended. Benefit was payable for up to two years. Premiums were guaranteed, but rose 
with age.
In November 2019, Mr M spoke with Lifesearch about his protection arrangements. The 
adviser explained that he could take out a new short-term income protection policy with an 
insurer (that Ill call Policy B) that was cheaper than his existing cover. Mr M agreed to 
take this out. The policy provided £1,000 monthly benefit for a premium of £26 per month. 
It had a deferred period of four weeks. Therefore, in the event of a valid claim, benefit 
would be payable after four weeks. Benefit was payable for up to two years. Premiums 
were guaranteed, but rose with age.
However, Mr M was led to believe by the adviser that Policy B would provide back to 
day one cover, in the same way as Policy A. He agreed to take out Policy B on that 
basis, and cancelled Policy A.
Mr M later learnt that Policy B didnt include back to day one cover, and benefit would 
only be paid after four weeks. He complained to Lifesearch about the sale.
Lifesearch accepted that Policy B had been mis-sold. It offered to refund the premiums Mr 
M had paid, if he chose to cancel the policy. Unhappy with this, Mr M brought a complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator thought Lifesearchs offer was reasonable, so she didnt think it needed to 
take any further action.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 October 2021. Heres what I said:
Its not in dispute that Lifesearch mis-sold the policy. Mr M was led to believe the 
policy would pay benefit from day one in the event of a claim, but later found out that 
wasnt the case and benefit would only be paid from the end of the four-week deferred 
period.
Mr M says he wouldnt have taken out Policy B if hed known that it had a four-week 
deferred period. Lifesearch therefore offered to refund the premiums up to the date of its 
final response, if Mr M chose to cancel his cover. I therefore need to decide whether this 
offer was reasonable.
As our investigator has explained, when a financial business does something wrong, we 
aim (as far as possible) to place the consumer in the position they wouldve been in, if not 
for the error. So Ive thought about what wouldve happened if the policy hadnt been mis-
sold.
If Mr M hadnt taken out Policy B, I think he wouldve kept Policy A in force. This was 
slightly more expensive than Policy B, and had less benefit. I understand Mr M did want to 
increase his monthly benefit to £1,000 though, and he told Lifesearchs adviser at the time 
of sale that he was planning to ask the insurer of Policy A to arrange this. So the cost of 
Policy A wouldve increased as a result.
I understand that to now take out a new short-term income protection policy would be far 
more expensive than it was in November 2019, due to the impact of Covid-19. Lifesearch 
did some quotes and said a new policy would be around three times more expensive.
Mr M hasnt needed to make a claim under Policy B, so he hasnt suffered a financial loss 
in that respect. Hes also benefited from the potential to claim a higher benefit, for a lower 
premium than he was paying for Policy A. However, Mr M is understandably concerned 
that if he keeps Policy B in force and does need to make a claim, then he wouldnt 
receive any benefit for the first four weeks, and so there may be a future financial loss.
The difficulty with this is that we dont know that Mr M will ever need to make a claim 
under his policy. Though I think we do need to recognise that Mr M wanted back to day 
one cover, and he cant now take that out for the same price that he was previously 
paying.
Given there are some unknown variables here, I think a reasonable solution would be for 
Lifesearch to pay compensation equivalent to the current cost of two years cover for 
another short-term income protection policy. The policy should provide back to day one 
cover, and have a monthly benefit of £1,000. Lifesearch would be able to deduct from this 
amount the premium that Mr M would have likely paid to the insurer of Policy A for a two-
year period, if his existing cover had remained in place but the monthly benefit had 
increased to £1,000.
Mr M can then cancel Policy B, and use the compensation to take out a new policy 
with back to day one cover if he wishes.
I think the mis-sale has also caused Mr M unnecessary worry and inconvenience, and 
so I also intend to require Lifesearch to pay him £150 compensation.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make 
before I reached a final decision. 
Lifesearch provided this service with details of a quote it had obtained for alternative 
cover (as set out in my provisional decision). 
Lifesearch said it isnt able to calculate how much Mr M wouldve paid for £1,000 cover 
to the insurer of Policy A. However, it said it would be willing to use the monthly cost of 
£31.72 in its calculations, as this was the amount Mr M was previously paying for Policy 
A. 
Mr M responded to say that he cant find a policy that provides back to day one cover. 
He also said he doesnt know what the cost of the policy wouldve been in 2019. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lifesearch has provided this service with a quote it has obtained for an alternative short-term 
income protection policy, with back to day one cover. The cost of this over a two-year 
period would be £1,932.60. 
I said in my provisional decision that Lifesearch would be able to deduct from this figure the 
premiums that Mr M wouldve paid to the insurer of Policy A over a two-year period for 
£1,000 benefit. However, Lifesearch has proposed to instead use the monthly premium of 
£31.72 that Mr M was previously paying to the insurer of Policy A for £805 benefit. Based on 
a two-year period, this amounts to £761.28. This would mean that Mr M is financially better 
off. It also addresses Mr Ms concerns that he doesnt know what the cost of the cover 
wouldve been in 2019. 
Therefore, £1,932.60 minus £761.28 equals £1,171.32. In addition, I asked Lifesearch to pay 
£150 compensation. This brings the total redress payable up to £1,321.32.
Mr M says he cant find a policy that provides back to day one cover. However, as Ive said, 
Lifesearch has provided this service with a quote for such cover. If Mr M would like details of 
this cover, he should contact our investigator. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Lifesearch Partners Limited to pay 
Mr M total compensation of £1,321.32.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman