DRN-3174653
The complaint
Mr C complains that Vanquis Bank Limited put his account into default too late.
  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 8 November 2021. I wanted to give both 
parties the chance to respond with anything else they wanted me to consider before I came 
to my final decision. Both parties have now responded, and so Im in a position to issue my 
final decision.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision.
What happened
Mr C took out a credit card account with Vanquis in 2013. At this time, he also took out a
repayment option plan (ROP). The purpose of the plan was that it would make repayments
to the credit card account in certain circumstances if Mr C wasnt able to.
Mr C says that he has experienced financial difficulty since he had the account. But Vanquis
eventually defaulted the account in 2019 due to Mr C not making any payments to it.
Mr C says the default has affected him severely and he doesnt think that it was fair of
Vanquis to apply the default when it did. He says his relationship with Vanquis broke down in
around 2014, and so the default ought to have been applied then.
Vanquis responded to Mr Cs complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It said that it had sent a Notice
of Default (NOD) letter to Mr Cs address on 19 January 2019. The letter explained that it
would default the account and register this with the credit reference agencies if Mr C didnt
bring his account up to date. It said it didnt receive a payment or hear anything back from Mr
C and so it registered the default.
It said that it also sent Mr C a text message on 5 March 2019 letter him know that it would be
sending his account to a third party to collect the debt owed. Mr C responded to the text
message to say he would make a repayment that day. Vanquis also asked Mr C to email it
with supporting evidence to activate the ROP.
Vanquis said that it continued to contact Mr C by text message in April 2019 regarding the
evidence it needed to activate the ROP. While Mr C was responding the text messages, he
didnt provide the evidence Vanquis needed and so it passed his account to an external
agency.
It added that it has a duty to report factual information to the credit reference agencies, and
so it felt it had fairly and correctly applied the default.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C, but they didnt uphold his complaint. They found
that while Mr C had missed payments to the account, these were generally sporadic and not
enough for Vanquis to have considered defaulting the account sooner. They also found that
there were periods of non-payment, but these were covered by the ROP  so while Mr C
wasnt making the repayments himself, the ROP was doing this.
Mr C responded to our investigator to say he didnt agree. He explained that he wasnt
happy with the way the ROP was sold to him. And he was unhappy with the way Vanquis
passed his account to a debt collection agency when the default was applied. He said that
Vanquis werent willing to discuss the account with him properly at the point the default was
applied  so there was no clear way for him to maintain a relationship with Vanquis. Mr C
doesnt feel that Vanquis did enough to resolve the issue prior to the default.
Because Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the
matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to uphold this complaint.
I know Mr C has more recently raised concerns about how the ROP has been sold to him. I
havent looked at those concerns in this decision, because he hasnt raised these with
Vanquis, nor did he mention this when he first brought his complaint to this service. So
Vanquis will need a chance to look into this further first.
Firstly, its worth noting what the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says about when
a default should be registered. It says that a default should be registered when a consumer
is at least three months behind with their payments. And it would expect a default to be
registered by the time the consumer is six months behind with their payments.
Looking at what has happened in this case, I can see that the last payment Mr C made to
the account was in October 2018. After this, he didnt make a payment. I can see Vanquis
sent Mr C a Notice of Default letter in January 2019 to ask that Mr C brings the account up
to date by 9 February 2019, and if he didnt do this it may default to his account.
But Vanquis didnt default the account until May 2019, which was after Mr C had missed
seven repayments to the card, which is more than the maximum of six missed payments as
recommended set out in the guidelines set by the ICO.
The Notice of Default letter that Vanquis sent to Mr C in January 2019 stated that Mr C had
until 9 February 2019 to make the payment, otherwise it would likely default the account.
Given that Vanquiss own correspondence to Mr C sets this out, it isnt clear why it took it a
further three months after this to default the account. And I dont think this was fair on Mr C.
Vanquis continued to apply charges and interest to the account after the date it told him it
would default. And it continued to charge him for the use of the ROP. So I think Mr C has
lost out here.
Based on what Ive said above, and while taking into account the ICOs guidance, I think that
Vanquis fairly defaulted the account, but I think it should have done this in February 2019 as
stated in its letter.
Mr C believes that the default should have been registered even sooner than this. He says
that he missed payments between 2013 and 2014, and so it should have been clear at this
stage that he was struggling financially, and the default should have been applied then. Ivelooked through the information provided by Vanquis. And while I agree that Mr C has clearly
missed payments, I cant agree that a default should have been applied sooner.
I can see from the information sent by Vanquis that Mr C did make some payments during
these dates and so he wasnt ever three payments or more in arrears. I dont think it would
have been appropriate for Vanquis to register a default at this time. While Mr C did go on to
miss more payments while he had this credit card account, I cant agree he missed enough
for a default to be registered.
The marking of a default on a consumers credit file is likely to impact on their ability to
obtain credit, or the terms or cost of their borrowing  so it could have serious consequences
for Mr C. Because of this Vanquis would need to be sure that Mr C wouldnt be able to repay
the account under the current terms. And because he did, on each occasion, bring the
account back up to date or activate the ROP, I dont think it did anything wrong by not
applying a default prior to 2019.
I appreciate Mr C feels as though Vanquis didnt do enough to help him before applying the
default. Based on what Ive seen, I can see Vanquis contacted Mr C quite a few times, both
by letter and text message from the date he first missed the payment, until it applied the
default. So, I cant agree that it didnt do enough to contact him.
I can also see that Vanquis text Mr C to let him know it would pass the account to a third 
party debt collector. Mr C responded to the text message agreeing to pay later that day, but
no payment was received. Vanquis continued to text Mr C explaining what he needed to do
to activate the ROP, but it didnt receive any documents to evidence his financial situation,
and so it passed his debt onto a third party to collect it.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Cs account, and they state that:
We may instruct any other person to exercise our rights or carry out our responsibilities
under this agreement e.g., we could instruct a debt collection agency to assist in recovering
any amounts owed to us.
Given that Mr C had stopped making repayments towards the account, I dont think it did
anything wrong by instructing a different party to help it collect the debt. So, I dont find this
to have been unfair to Mr C.
Based on everything Ive said above, I currently think Vanquis needs to backdate the default
to February 2019. And it needs to refund any charges, interest or ROP payments it added to
Mr Cs account after this date.
Vanquis responded to my provisional decision to say it didnt have anything further to add.
Mr C responded and made the below main points:
No payments were made between December 2014 to June 2015. There were more 
than six missed payments at this time and so the account should have defaulted. And 
had he not had the ROP, then his account would have defaulted during this period of 
non-payment. 
He has had other defaults applied to his account in 2014, that have since dropped off 
his credit report. 
The impact of the default showing on his credit file is having big consequences for 
him on how he is able to support his business. And hes also not able to buy a house 
as a result of the default. He believes that the default only being applied in 2019 is eliminating his right to a fresh start.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint, broadly for the 
same reasons as stated in my provisional decision, but I will respond to the points made by 
Mr C in more detail.
Firstly, Id like to thank Mr C for taking the time to respond to my provisional decision. 
Clearly, he has been through a difficult time over the years, and Im sorry to have read about 
his current situation and how the default is impacting on him.
In reaching my conclusion, I dont wish in any way to downplay or disregard the situation Mr 
C has found himself in. But being independent means, I have to take a step back and 
consider what both parties have said. And I have to look to see if Vanquis has acted fairly 
and reasonably when applying the default. 
Ive looked at the evidence provided by Mr C in relation to what repayments he has made to 
the credit card over the years. And I can see that he didnt make a payment to the account 
for around six consecutive months in 2015. But I can also see that Mr C made an application 
for the ROP to activate based on his circumstances at the time. 
The purpose of the ROP was to make repayments to the account when a person got into 
short term financial difficulty. The ROP would cover the repayments that were due each 
month. Once the ROP was activated, Mr C didnt have to make the repayments himself. So, 
I dont find that Vanquis not defaulting the account back in 2015 was unfair.
Because Mr C had applied to have the ROP activated, it wouldnt be fair of me to now decide 
that Vanquis shouldnt have activated this and defaulted the account instead. While I 
appreciate that in hindsight, Mr C thinks it might have been more beneficial to him if the 
account had defaulted instead, it appears that this was something he was trying to avoid at 
the time, given his actions.
Im sorry to have read Mr Cs comments in relation to the impact the default is having on his 
current situation. And while I empathise with this, it doesnt mean that Vanquis has treated 
him unfairly. As Ive already stated in my provisional decision, Mr C did miss payments in 
2019, and this is the reason for the account defaulting. 
  
Putting things right
Vanquis appears to have accepted that it should have applied the default in February 2019. 
So Vanquis needs to put things right for Mr C by:
Backdating the default to February 2019
Refunding any interest and charges that were applied to Mr Cs account after 
February 2019.
Refunding any payments made for ROP after February 2019.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint. Vanquis Bank Limited should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman