DRN-2083116
The complaint
Mr J says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Egg, mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr J applied for a credit card with Egg in 2001. At the same time, PPI was added to the 
credit card covering Mr J in the event of his disability or unemployment. It also included life 
and serious illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr J disagreed, so the complaint was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr J says, among other things, that he was pressured into buying the PPI. As Im satisfied 
he applied for the PPI online and doesnt seem to have had any contact with any of Eggs 
advisers, I think it unlikely undue pressure was applied.
Before adding the PPI, Egg had to make it clear to Mr J that it was optional. From the screen 
shots Eggs provided showing what hed have seen online at the time, I think hed have been 
given the option to either accept or decline PPI as part of the credit card application process. 
Eggs internal records of the application details Mr J provided online indicate he chose to 
have PPI. 
So, I think Egg made it clear that it was selling PPI, that it was optional, and that Mr J agreed 
to have it, knowing he had a choice. 
I dont believe Egg recommended the PPI to Mr J. This means Egg didnt have to look into 
whether it was right for him. But it should have provided enough information about the PPI 
for Mr J to make up his own mind as to whether it was right for him.
From what Ive seen, I dont think Egg made all the information Mr J needed clear to him. But 
I must also go on to consider what difference that might have made to Mr J. I dont think 
better information would have stopped him from buying the PPI because: 
Based on what I know of Mr Js circumstances at the time, he was eligible for the 
cover. And while the PPI had certain exclusions to, or limits on, the cover I cant see 
that he was significantly affected by them. Although he says he was self-employed at 
the time, and that this would have made it more difficult for him to claim, the 
information recorded by Egg during the application indicates he was employed. 
Mr J says he wasnt entitled to enhanced sick or redundancy pay and that he had no 
other means of keeping up with his credit card repayments if he wasnt working. The 
PPI benefits would have paid for up to 12 months per claim. Overall, I think Mr J 
would have found the protection the PPI provided useful.
Theres nothing to suggest hed have considered the monthly premium to be 
unaffordable. And the PPI was flexible in that Mr J could have cancelled it at any 
time, and at no extra cost, if he no longer wanted it.
Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J. But Egg will 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI because: 
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr J about that. Because Egg didnt tell Mr J, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Eggs basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that offers fair in 
this case.
What the business needs to do
Egg has to pay back any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Egg should also pay back any extra interest Mr J 
paid because of that.
Egg should re-work the credit card account and pay back the difference between what Mr J 
owes and what hed have owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt been over 
50% of the cost of the PPI. Egg should also pay 8%* simple interest if he paid off his credit 
card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr J can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman