DRN-2423485
The complaint
Mr Os complaint is about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage he took out with Clydesdale Bank Plc 
in 2014. Hes unhappy about the early repayment charge (ERC) he had to pay when he paid 
off the mortgage.
What happened
Mr O took out a mortgage in 2014 with Clydesdale on a property he owned and rented out. 
The mortgage was for £1,000,000 over a term of 22 years. Attached to the mortgage was a 
five-year fixed interest rate product, which had an ERC associated with it. The details of the 
ERC were documented in the mortgage offer Mr O was sent. The ERC was based on a 
percentage of the amount being repaid and was documented as slightly over £20,000. 
In 2018 Mr O also took out a short-term second charge loan on the property of £300,000. As 
this loan was due to be repaid in the middle of 2019, Mr O applied to Clydesdale for a further 
advance of £400,000. Clydesdale declined the application on the grounds of it not meeting 
its affordability criteria. Mr O has said he was left in the position of replacing the second 
charge loan with something else of a similar nature (and at a high cost) or to arrange a 
mortgage to repay all the lending on the property. He chose the latter option as it was more 
financially viable, but he had to pay an ERC as a result.
Mr O complained to Clydesdale because he was unhappy his further advance application 
had been rejected and he believed the ERC amount he was charged was excessive. He said 
he thought the ERC was a penalty and an unfair term (and so unenforceable) and the 
amount he was charged was not a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs Clydesdale would 
incur upon early repayment. Mr O explained his thoughts about why Clydesdale applied an 
ERC and how it could benefit Clydesdale. Mr O believes the only costs associated with a 
mortgage are the administrative charges associated with setting up, running and closing the 
mortgage, along with broker commission. 
Clydesdale didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. It explained there were many factors that were 
taken into account when assessing an application, which were not solely about the risk to it, 
but also the risks the proposed loan represented in the long term to the customer. It said the 
application Mr O made was considered, but it didnt fit with the lending criteria in place at the 
time. Clydesdale was also satisfied Mr O was aware an ERC was payable and for what 
period. It was satisfied Mr O was aware, in advance, of the consequences of repaying his 
mortgage when he did.
Mr O didnt accept Clydesdales position and asked us to consider his complaint. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld.  Mr O wasnt 
happy with the investigators conclusions and reiterated his previous submissions about the 
lending decision and the amount of the ERC.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr O was disappointed that his application for further borrowing was 
declined. Although the complaint Mr O referred to this service had moved on from his 
original concern about the application being declined, I think it would be appropriate for me 
to explained that a lender is allowed to set its own lending criteria (including how it assesses 
affordability) based on its appetite for risk. 
I have noted Mr Os thoughts about the costs associated with a mortgage that Clydesdale 
can charge for, but I cant agree with him. In order to be able to lend to customers, lenders 
will borrow tranches of money from other organisations. As with loans made to the lenders 
customers, there are costs associated with borrowing that money and repaying it early. The 
lender has to calculate what arrangements it needs in place to be able to lend that money 
out. There are potential risks associated with doing so, because some customers may repay 
their borrowing early. When that happens the lender is still liable for the cost of borrowing the 
money and repaying it early. 
In light of this, lenders are allowed to charge an ERC to cover the costs to it of consumers 
repaying borrowing early. This can be done on an individual mortgage basis, but is more 
commonly calculated for a tranche of money or group of mortgages, and based on a 
proportion being repaid early. This calculation will be based on the lenders experience of the 
likelihood of early repayment and assessment of future conditions. Calculating an ERC on 
this basis is acceptable.
I have noted Mr Os comment that he thinks Clydesdale has profited from the charge. I 
havent seen any evidence of this. In addition, the calculations I have been provided with 
indicate the charge was based on a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs associated with 
early repayment of the borrowing. 
Mr O has said that he thinks the charge is punitive and used to block customers from moving 
to other lenders. As I have said, I am satisfied the ERC was calculated appropriately. I also 
cant agree that the ERC is punitive. Mr O entered into a commercial mortgage which was a 
contract for a specific period of time; he chose to exit the that contract early and its not 
unreasonable for him to pay any associated costs.  I dont think the charge should 
reasonably be regarded as a barrier to switching mortgage. Indeed, it didnt stop Mr O doing 
so. 
Mr O has commented that he doesnt think the complaint handler telling him that his 
concerns about the amount of the ERC charged wouldnt be uphold was wrong, because no 
investigation had been done. I can understand him feeling this way, but where a financial 
business can quickly respond to a complaint, that isnt inappropriate. It is likely the 
complaints department at Clydesdale has experience of complaints of the same nature as 
Mr Os, so the complaint handler would have known how the ERC was calculated and that 
Clydesdale had declined complaints about this issue on that basis. Although it may not have 
come across well to Mr O in the circumstances, I dont think Clydesdale was wrong to 
provide him with a response when it did.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 
26 March 2021. 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman