The complaint
Ms K complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with a fraudulent transaction on her 
account.
What happened
Ms K says she made a payment for an airline ticket on 27 November 2019. She says she 
was the victim of a fraud and didn't receive the ticket and Barclays refused to help her. Ms K 
says she has been the victim of a scam before and says it only happens when she uses her 
Barclays account. Ms K also complains that when she called Barclays the staff member 
didn't take her through security.
Barclays says Ms K made the transaction to a company it says is legitimate and Ms K was 
not the victim of fraud. It says Ms K didn't wait long enough for the ticket and confirmation 
from the company. Barclays says it correctly told Ms K it couldn't raise a chargeback at that 
stage but offered to arrange a call with the company responsible for the tickets which Ms K 
agreed to, and she then received a full refund. Barclays accepts it could have offered to 
have raised a Subject Access Request (SAR) during the call and has offered £25 
compensation for that mistake. It says its staff member didn't need to take Ms K through 
security when she was trying to understand the complaint.
Ms K brought her complaint to us and says she believes the scammers panicked when she 
spoke to it and refunded her money. She also says Barclays has breached regulations.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didn't uphold it. The investigator thought 
Barclays had correctly explained to Ms K that a chargeback couldn't be made at that stage 
and sought authority from her before transferring her call to the company that sold the 
tickets. The investigator thought overall Ms K had received her money back far quicker than 
if a chargeback had been raised and the compensation was fair and reasonable for the 
failure to make the SAR during the call. The investigator didn't think Barclays had acted 
unfairly by not taking Ms K through security when she first called.
Ms K doesn't accept that view and says Barclays failed to protect her, and we should 
consider what has taken place in the past.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Ms K will be disappointed by my decision and I 
appreciate her concerns about fraud and the victims of fraud. I also can't consider what has 
DRN-1708021taken place in the past and can only look at this complaint.
I have listened to the call between Ms K and Barclays and I appreciate that Ms K was 
concerned that she had been the victim of fraud and wanted her money back. I'm satisfied 
that there was no need for Barclays to have taken Ms K through security during the first part 
of the call, as at that stage I think Barclays was trying to find out the nature of the complaint. 
I am also satisfied that Barclays fraud department told Ms K that the company was a 
legitimate company and that Barclays was trying to help her.
I appreciate Ms K wanted Barclays to raise a chargeback. But I think Barclays correctly told 
Ms K that it couldn't do so at that stage as I don't think it was able to under the chargeback 
rules which Barclays isn't responsible for. I can see that Barclays fairly suggested to Ms K 
that she speak to the company, which I think she agreed to do so. Ms K spoke to the 
company and it agreed to refund her the cost of the airline ticket. I don't think a fraudster 
would have received the call and wouldn't have agreed to refund the money. I'm sorry to 
disagree with Ms K. But I think it highly unlikely that a fraudster would have panicked during 
the call and agreed to refund the money.
I'm satisfied Ms K wanted her money back by the chargeback process. But that she did 
receive her money back far sooner than she would have, even if a chargeback would have 
successful, which for the reasons I have explained, I don't think would have been successful.
Overall I'm satisfied Barclays has acted fairly here by trying to help Ms K and correctly 
advised her about the chargeback process and its view of the legitimacy of the company. I'm 
satisfied Ms K received her money back and I don't think she was the victim of fraud but I 
accept Ms K's general concerns about fraud. There is no question Barclays didn't raise a 
SAR over the phone. But I think its fairly apologised for that mistake and offered what I think 
is a fair and reasonable level of compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the main part of Ms K's complaint. I also find Barclays 
Bank UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable offer of compensation of £25 in respect of the 
SAR mistake. Ms K's acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman