DRN-3935161
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, indicated to him that he could
successfully apply for a credit account but then declined his formal account application.
What happened
Mr J used Halifaxs online eligibility checker to check whether he would be approved for a
credit card with a £1,500 credit limit if he applied to Halifax for one. 
The eligibility checker indicted to Mr J that he would be approved for a credit card with a 
£1,000 credit limit. But when Mr J then applied to Halifax for a credit card with a £1,000 
credit limit, his application was declined. Mr J wasnt happy about this, so he raised a 
complaint.
Halifax looked at Mr Js complaint. They explained that the eligibility checker only detailed
whether an application was likely to be successful, and not that it would definitely be
successful, given that formal applications are subject to additional checks. Because of this,
Halifax didnt feel theyd acted unfairly towards Mr J as he contended. Mr J wasnt satisfied
with Halifaxs response, so referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt Halifaxs response to Mr Js
complaint was reasonable, and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr J remained dissatisfied,
and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 January 2023 as follows:
Halifax have demonstrated that their eligibility checker describes itself as follows:
 its a straightforward credit card eligibility checker that shows you which 
cards youre likely to be accepted for and your estimated credit limit
The key phrase here is likely to be accepted for. And, if it were the case that Mr J 
had inputted his information into the eligibility checker and received a simple 
response from it, then I wouldnt be provisionally upholding this complaint in Mr Js 
favour.
However, Mr J has been able to evidence that when he did use the eligibility checker, 
having requested a credit limit of £1,500, he received the following message.
We can offer you the card, but the offer has changed.
Your estimated credit limit, £1,000.
Please review the details of your proposed offer below before clicking 
Continue to progress with your application.
Mr J points out that the message quoted above didnt say that Halifax may offer him 
the card, but that they can offer the card, which I agree with Mr J is suggestive that 
Halifax would offer him a credit card with a credit limit in the region of £1,000 if he 
formally applied for one. As such, I can appreciate Mr Js frustration when his 
subsequent application for a credit card with a £1,000 credit limit was declined by 
Halifax.
Halifax have explained that Mr Js application was declined because of further 
checks that are only conducted when a formal application is received. This seems 
reasonable to me, and so I wont be instructing Halifax to provide a credit card 
account to Mr J as he may like.
But I do feel that Mr J was unfairly misled into believing that his application for a 
credit card with a £1,000 credit limit would be successful, and so Ill be provisionally 
upholding this complaint on that basis and instructing Halifax to make a payment of 
£100 to Mr J as compensation for any upset and frustration this matter may have 
caused.
Finally, Ill also be provisionally instructing Halifax to remove any credit searches 
relating to this application from Mr Js credit file, given that Im satisfied that Mr J 
wouldnt in all likelihood have gone ahead with the application had he it been made 
clear to him that the application might not have been successful  which as 
explained, I dont feel was made clear to Mr J in this instance.
Both Mr J and Halifax have confirmed that theyre happy to accept my provisional decision. 
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint in Mr Js 
favour on the basis as outlined above, and I therefore confirm that I do uphold this complaint 
on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Halifax must make a payment of £100 to Mr J.
Halifax must also remove any credit searches relating to the account application in question 
from Mr Js credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman