DRN-2817515
The complaint
Mrs D, represented by Mr D, complains that EUI Limited trading as Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited took, and attempted to take, payments for the renewal of her motor 
insurance when she did not want to continue with the policy. To avoid confusion, I will refer 
to the company as Admiral as this was the name used in correspondence with Mrs D.
What happened
Mrs D had a motor insurance policy arranged by Admiral. Mr D was a named driver. At the 
annual renewal, Admiral auto-renewed the policy and unsuccessfully tried to take the 
premium payment. Admiral cancelled the policy for non-payment and made a charge. 
Mrs D wasnt happy about this and complained to Admiral. Admiral said Mrs D hadnt asked 
to cancel the policy and so it was renewed. Admiral said the payment it took was for the time 
the car was covered, plus a cancellation fee and a small amount for policy upgrades.
Mrs D wasnt happy with Admirals response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
said that Admiral acted in accordance with Mrs Ds policy  it sent out renewal notices, tried 
to collect the payment and then cancelled the policy when the payment wasnt made. 
Mrs D wasnt happy with this, and so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. Mrs 
D says she did ask to cancel the policy and Admiral shouldnt have charged anything. She 
wants a refund and compensation for the negative effect on her credit rating.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint. I will explain why.
Ive seen the renewal notice saying Admiral would automatically renew the policy, and 
payment would be taken from the card held on file, details of which are shown.
Ive also seen Your Agreement with EUI Limited sent with the renewal notice which states -
If you wish to cancel your policy you must contact us. If you cancel your policy after the 14 
day cooling off period, but before the end of its term, EUI Limited will make an intermediary 
charge to cover the costs of setting up your policy and arranging for it to be cancelled. The 
insurer will also make a charge for the time on coverWe will also apply an additional 
charge of £5 if you have purchased any motor Policy Upgrades.
Ive seen a letter saying the payment hadnt been successful and Admiral would try again. 
Ive also seen a letter sent after Admiral tried again to take the payment which states -
We have not received payment but have provided you with insurance since the renewal 
date. If you do not want this insurance, please call us immediately to cancel your policy.
The letter says that unless payment was received by a specified date, the policy would be 
cancelled and Admiral would tell Mrs D how much she owed. 
Ive listened to a phone call between Mr and Mrs D and Admiral, after the renewal notice 
was sent but before the renewal date. Mr and Mrs D said the quote was a lot more 
expensive than the previous year. They discussed ways of reducing the cost with the call 
handler, who said she would email the details. 
Mr D asked not to auto-renew. The call handler said in that case she would have to cancel 
the policy. Mr D said they would call before the renewal date and cancel if they had to. Mr D 
said they werent using the car and asked if they could renew with a gap. The call handler 
said then they would have to cancel the policy, and start a new one. Mr D didnt say they 
wanted to do this, and didnt call back before the agreed date to cancel.
Ive also listened to a call from Mr D after the payment had been taken. The payment had 
come from a card belonging to Mr Ds friend and Mr D asked for it to be refunded. The call 
handler said he would refund Mr Ds friend but would need details of another card to remove 
the friends details. Mr D gave a new card, but said it wasnt there for auto-renewal. Then the 
call handler offered a lower quote, and said he would suspend the payment until a given 
date. Mr D had until then to decide or Admiral would automatically apply for the payment. Mr 
and Mrs D didnt contact Admiral before this date.
I think that Admiral was clear in all its contacts with Mr and Mrs D that the policy would auto-
renew unless it was cancelled. How to cancel and cancellation charges were explained but 
at no time did Mr or Mrs D ask to cancel the policy. Mrs D had approximately one month of 
insurance cover for her car. I think it was fair and reasonable for Admiral to charge her for 
this and for the cancellation fees as set out in her policy.
So I wont be asking Admiral to refund the amount Mrs D paid or compensate her for any 
negative effect on her credit rating.
Mrs D took out cover with a different insurer. This started after her policy with Admiral ended. 
Had there been an overlap I might have expected Admiral to refund her for the period of dual 
cover. It seems this wasnt the case so I wont be asking Admiral to do that.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman