DRN-2614185
The complaint
Mr L complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) didnt do enough to retrieve 
a misdirected payment that was mistakenly sent to an unknown third party. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Natwest (as the receiving bank of the funds) placed a temporary hold on the third-
party account after Mr L got in contact on 24 February 2020 to say there had been a 
mistake with the payees details, where it then asked the third-party for permission to 
take back the funds. However, Natwest didnt receive any response and, by the time 
it did receive a formal request from GT Bank (the sending bank) to recall the funds in 
May 2020, they promptly responded. But by this point the funds had unfortunately 
already been withdrawn from the third-party account. 
I appreciate Mr L feels strongly that a recall request was sent by GT Bank on 
12 February 2020. But Ive seen no evidence that would suggest this was the case, 
or that Natwest had authorisation to recall the funds at this point. Indeed, GT Bank 
even confirmed to Natwest on 24 February 2020 that the account numberwhich 
was credited is the correct account number of the beneficiary. Kindly proceed further 
as the payment is valid. I acknowledge that GT Bank contacted Natwest on 28 April 
2020 to advise that they should return the funds if they were not able to apply them to 
the account. But this does not amount to a formal recall request, which GT Bank 
have confirmed it did not send until 14 May 2020 when it said, Kindly take this as 
your authority to recall the funds as confirmed by the remitting bank. So Im satisfied 
that Natwest have not acted unreasonably by failing to act until they received such a 
formal notification in May 2020.
Mr L is also unhappy as he says that Natwest placed him under investigation for 
fraud. However, Natwest has confirmed that the misdirected funds were not treated 
as an instance of fraud due to it being an error made by the remitter of the funds. It 
said that Mr L was not investigated and that none of his accounts had any restrictions 
placed upon them. Ive also seen no persuasive evidence to indicate that Mr L has 
been treated unfairly by the bank in this regard. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Natwest has complied with its obligations. It initially queried 
the payment on 13 February 2020, which was later confirmed by the remitter as 
being correct on 14 February 2020. It placed a block on the account when Mr L 
subsequently got in contact, but then had to remove the block when GT Bank 
confirmed that the payment was valid. I appreciate this was incorrect information, but 
Natwest were relying on the information it had been given by the remitting bank. It 
also wrote to the account beneficiary more than once asking that the funds be 
returned but received no response. Natwest then acted promptly after receiving the 
formal recall request in May 2020, but unfortunately the funds had already been 
withdrawn by that point. 
I appreciate that a new Confirmation of Payee (CoP) system was since introduced 
by many UK banks in 2020, which requires an account holder to confirm whether that 
the details of the payees account match the name of the person they are paying. 
However, the CoP system checks domestic payments only and does not apply to 
inbound international transfers like Mr Ls. So there was no obligation on Natwest to 
correctly match the details as the receiving bank in this instance either. 
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr L, and that it must have been very 
distressing to lose such a significant amount of money as a result of a mistake made by the 
remitter overseas. But in the circumstances, Im not persuaded Natwest has done anything 
wrong here or can fairly or reasonably be held liable for the loss of Mr Ls funds. So I will not 
be directing it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman