DRN-3951500
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Sainsburys Bank Plc failed to provide them with adequate 
information when dealing with their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had an insurance policy with Sainsburys, which they took out in June 2021. 
They say that in September 2021, Sainsburys was informed of a change of address and of 
future renovation works at the new address.
But, Mr and Mrs M say no advice was provided at the time, and they werent told that the 
insurance may be affected by the future renovation works. Only when Mr and Mrs M later 
advised Sainsburys the works were commencing, were they told the policy would have to be 
cancelled.
Mr and Mrs M then struggled to find affordable insurance elsewhere and were left uninsured 
for a number of months, causing anxiety and leading to them feeling unable to leave the 
home for anything more than a few hours at a time. As well as incurring the cost of installing 
CCTV in an attempt to help reassure themselves.
Mr and Mrs M complained about this, saying they may have been in a better position if 
theyd known in advance their insurance would have to be cancelled. Sainsburys apologised 
for not having made things clear in September 2021. They offered to refund the cancellation 
fee and pay £50 compensation.
Mr and Mrs M didnt think that was sufficient in the circumstances so brought their case to 
us. An investigator here looked into the matter, they said the offer had been fair and that 
there was insufficient evidence to show Mr and Mrs M had suffered a greater loss as a result 
of what had happened.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree, so the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, it would be helpful for me to acknowledge that Mr and Mrs M have referred to a 
number of Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules which they consider Sainsburys to have 
breached. Id like to reassure them that everything they have said has been considered, but I 
havent commented on each and every point raised.
That isnt intended in any way as a discourtesy, it simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service. I have focussed on what I consider to be the key points in this case.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M, but I think Sainsburys have offered suitable 
compensation already. That is not to say they havent done anything wrong, but when we 
consider compensation in cases of this nature it can tend to be modest. Ill explain why I 
have reached this conclusion.
Mr and Mrs M say that if theyd been given better information back in September 2021, then 
they would have had more time to find cover which could continue once the renovations 
began. They also say it was more difficult to find appropriate cover after the work had 
started.
While I appreciate Sainsburys have apologised for what happened, it is worth pointing out 
that underwriting criteria can frequently change. That means it was possible the cover could 
have been extended to include a property being renovated in April 2022, it just mightnt have 
been known earlier.
I understand this will sound like speculation, and that Mr and Mrs M have said they dont 
have an intimate knowledge of how insurance works, but it is always the case that when the 
terms of cover are changed by a consumer the insurer also has the option of changing the 
terms of what theyre willing to offer. Policies will generally have a degree of flexibility, as is 
the case here  but ultimately  it is for the insurer to decide whether or not it continues.
Mr and Mrs M have said that they read the terms of cover and understood that when 
changes were made (i.e. renovations began) then the insurer may charge an additional 
premium or may cancel the cover. So, while Sainsburys could have reminded them of this in 
September 2021, I cant say they werent already aware.
Once the renovations began, and Sainsburys were informed, the policy was cancelled. I 
know Mr and Mrs M have also said that part of the reason they struggled to find cover, or 
competitive cover, elsewhere after that was because theyd been disclosing that their insurer 
had cancelled their policy. And they only later discovered that the cancellation wasnt the 
type of one they needed to declare.
But when the policy was cancelled, Mr and Mrs M were sent a letter which said that it was 
them who cancelled the policy  not the other way around. So, while I can understand the 
confusion there, I dont think it was entirely down to Sainsburys.
Im also mindful that Mr and Mrs M will have saved money during the period they were 
uninsured. I appreciate that might not have given the comfort that being insured would have 
provided but it is still a factor worth considering, alongside the compensation offered.
Overall, while its clear that Sainsburys couldve been clearer with Mr and Mrs M, I dont 
think the resolution they offered was unfair.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require Sainsburys Bank Plc to 
reimburse the cancellation fee and pay Mr and Mrs M £50 compensation (if they havent 
already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman