DRN-3130249
The complaint
Ms G complains about the way that her claim against a removal companys insurance was
dealt with by AXA Insurance UK Plc.  
What happened
In June 2019 Ms G and her family were moved to temporary accommodation by the local
authority (LA). The LA arranged for her furniture and possessions to be moved into storage.
In October 2019 Ms G visited the site where her goods were being stored, to get some
winter clothes. She was shocked to find a lot of her items were damaged including storage
boxes, cupboards, a sofa and plates.
Ms G made a claim to the removal company, but shortly after that the company went into
liquidation. She was advised to contact the brokers for the liquidating company, E, who
provided her with a claim form. She also took photos of some of the damaged items and
forwarded them to E. The storage site was some way away so Ms G had difficulty in
travelling there so as to list all the items.
In February 2020 the LA found a property for Ms G, and although it was too small, decided
that it wouldnt pay for Ms Gs goods to remain in storage, so they were removed to that
property. Unfortunately because of the size of the property, Ms G wasnt able to unpack and
list all the items. She did provide a partially completed claim form in March 2020, which listed
the items she had identified as damaged so far.
AXAs appointed broker, P, who had delegated authority to deal with all claims under the
policy, received details of the claim in March 2020. It asked E to provide further information,
including evidence of when Ms G visited the storage site, when the company were first
notified of the claim and the liability offered by the company and for the claim form to be
completed in full. It appears that this request wasnt passed onto Ms G until April 2020.
Ms G says she tried to contact P but was unsuccessful, so referred her complaint to this
service. In turn P says that it tried to contact Ms G on her mobile but got no response.
The LA then found a more suitable property for Ms G, so she and her family moved again at
the end of August 2020. A new removal company was employed, and had to remove the
damaged goods as well.
AXA agreed (through P) in August 2020 to appoint a loss adjuster. The loss adjuster visited
in September 2020 and criticised Ms G for not allowing it to look at items packed away. It
also said that the damage was mostly minor cosmetic damage. Ms G was asked to provide a
list of items damaged or missing and to give a cost for replacement or repair of them. Ms G
asked if AXA would arrange disposal of the sofa and the broken cupboards, but it declined to
do so, as the items had been moved by a new removal company.
Our investigator asked AXA if it was prepared to make an offer, but it said Ms G hadnt
provided original purchase receipts and values for the items to support her claim and so
wasnt in a position to make one. It pointed out that there was a £1,000 excess on the policy,
which its not liable to pay.
AXA advised Ms G that it was still awaiting costings and documents from her in October
2020. I understand the claim hasnt progressed since then.
Our investigator first had to decide if Ms G was an eligible complainant, having not been a
party to the original insurance. He decided that, in accordance with the Third Party Rights
Against Insurers Act, she was, and that AXA is liable to deal with the claim and that we are
able to consider her complaint because she is an eligible complainant. AXA accepted this
position.
Our investigator took the view that AXA was responsible for delays in dealing with the claim,
and that it was unreasonable to expect her to provide costs for replacement and repair. On
Ms G providing any necessary details to AXA, he said it should pay her claim for the
damaged/missing items. He further said that AXA should pay for the sofa and cupboards to
be disposed of, and that it should pay one third (on the basis that this is the proportion of
damaged goods) of her removal costs, and pay £600 compensation. He said however that
the excess still applied, and he wouldnt expect AXA to pay that.
AXA said the delays were due to Ms Gs a failure to co-operate and that it had tried to get in
touch with her, but she insisted on pursuing her complaints through this service.
Ms G felt that £600 wasnt enough to compensate her and her family for the distress AXA
had caused them, and the effect on their health. She believes that it should be AXAs
responsibility to chase up payment of the excess (as a debt against the removal company).
I issued a provisional decision. I said that, in order to settle the claim, AXA should pay Ms G 
£3,000, less any applicable excess, together with interest. I further said that it should pay 
£600 compensation.
AXA accepted my provisional decision. Ms G hasnt replied to my provisional decision, 
though Im satisfied that she received it and has had time to respond to it.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
The effect of the Third Party Rights Against Insurers Act is that, where the insured company
is in liquidation, a third party it would be liable to, has the right to make a claim against the
insurer as if they were the insured person.
claim
There have been allegations and counter allegations that the parties havent co-operated
with each other. I appreciate also that Ms G raised her complaints through this service rather
than directly with AXA. But I think that was because it was unclear that AXA was the insurer
 she was told to communicate with E, then the claim was taken over by P, who has
delegated authority from AXA to deal with all claims under the policy. P did receive details of
the claim in March 2020, and a partially completed claim form. It requested further details
from E, the request not being passed on to Ms G until April 2020.
Ms G did send photos to P, and says she tried to get in touch. P says it also tried to call
Ms G, although Ive seen no telephone notes or details of when the calls were made. I referto my earlier comment that the claim should have been treated as if Ms G were the insured
person. Im not clear that AXA did that, as it regarded Ms G as being ineligible to complain to
us. When our investigator issued his view, that Ms G was eligible to complain, on 12 March
2021, AXA didnt accept this until 25 June 2021. P didnt appoint a loss adjuster until August
2020, when approached by this service and Ms Gs position was explained. By that time
Ms Gs goods had been moved to the first property. And while the loss adjuster blamed
Ms G for being uncooperative, she has pointed out that all her goods were crammed into a
small property because the LA was unwilling to pay for continued storage.
Whilst I understand AXAs point that appointing a loss adjuster incurred costs, I think if this
had been treated as a proper claim one would have been appointed earlier and the goods
could have been inspected where they were in storage. The loss adjuster visited in early
September 2020 but didnt provide a report until the end of October. I think in all from the
end of April 2020 AXA was responsible for about five months delay.
liability
I think that it is likely that the insured removal company was responsible for all the damage
to Ms Gs goods. I say this because she provided photos of the items in storage and of the
damage she could see (which the removal company agreed was shocking). Whilst a new
removal company was involved in moving the goods from storage to her first property, and
then onwards to her second property, I dont think its likely that they were responsible for
any of the damage. As regards the actual damage some of it looks to be minor, but other
items, such as cupboards and storage boxes look to be beyond economic repair. I think it
was suggested that the washing machine had existing rust damage to it, however Ms G has
confirmed shes not claiming for this.
cost of repairing/replacing items
Ms G objects to being asked for costs of repair/replacement. I think the loss adjusters were
in a position to provide estimated costs, much more so than Ms G. And whilst it might be
reasonable to ask for receipts and proof of purchase where goods are stolen, I dont think its
reasonable to do so where they are still available. I think AXA was in a position to make an
offer in September 2020. I also think the matter has dragged on long enough. So, I propose
to put forward a cash settlement for what I think is a reasonable sum to cover the repair
and/or replacement of Ms Gs goods. This is based on the fact that, apart from things like the
cupboards, plates and storage boxes most of the items appear to be repairable. This would
mean that no more inspections would need to take place, nor would Ms G need to produce
any further information.
I propose to require AXA to pay £3,000 in settlement of Ms Gs claim, together with interest
from 30 September 2020 until reimbursement. I appreciate that this isnt a scientific
calculation, but I think its a fair and reasonable proposal taking into account the relevant
items and the damage sustained. However if either party wants to give me more detailed
calculations in response to this provisional decision I would be happy to consider them. This
settlement is also intended to cover the disposal of the sofa and cupboards. I understand the
LA would do this for £50 (for up to three items). If in response to this provisional decision,
neither party persuades me this settlement is unfair or unreasonable, Ill likely award it in my
final decision.
In respect of Ms Gs removal costs, I dont intend to make AXA pay these, as I understand
they were funded by the LA.
As for compensation, I realise that Ms G was vulnerable and was put in a difficult position by
having to have her goods stored and then not getting a suitable property until August 2020. Ican imagine it must have been very stressful for her and her family. And I know this will have
been aggravated by the damage done to her goods. However AXA isnt liable for the distress
and inconvenience caused by the claim. To the extent that its delays added to that and as it
declined to put an offer forward, I think AXA should pay compensation of £600.
In respect of the excess, as Ive said above Ms G is treated as if she were the insured
customer. And in those circumstances the excess is an uninsured loss, which the insurer
isnt obliged to recover. I know that as the removal company is in liquidation, shed be
unlikely to recover that loss. But it is one of the terms and conditions of the insurance that
covered her agreement with the removal company. So Im afraid that AXA is entitled to
deduct the excess when paying the claim.
As AXA has accepted my provisional decision, and as Ms G hasnt responded to it, I have no 
further comment to make. My provisional findings are now final and form part of this final 
decision.
Putting things right
AXA should pay £3,000, less any applicable excess, in full payment of Ms Gs claim.
On the amount due to Ms G it should add 8% simple interest from 30 September 2020 until it
reimburses Ms G.
AXA Insurance UK Plc is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any
interest paid. Should Ms G request it, it should provide her with a certificate showing how
much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, she can reclaim it.
AXA should further pay Ms G £600 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman