DRN-1338381
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs G.  
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2005. M&S sold Mrs G the policy 
by phone, some months after the credit card account started. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs G and her representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why:
I think M&S made Mrs G aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take 
it  although I can understand if she can no longer remember this. The records show 
that she agree to take PPI during a phone call. And the information Ive seen, about 
how staff were told to present PPI during phone calls, does support that it was 
offered as a genuine choice. 
M&S recommended the PPI to Mrs G, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. The PPI could have 
helped pay the credit card bill, and this would probably have been for a period longer 
than Mrs Gs employer sick pay (6 months full and 6 months half) lasted. And it would 
have paid out at the same time as any sick pay or redundancy pay, so leaving Mrs G 
more financially secure for longer. So, overall, the PPI was potentially useful. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable. And I cant see any other reason why the 
recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well M&S actually explained the PPI. Its possible the 
information M&S gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
But I dont think, in Mrs Gs circumstances, full information about costs and benefits 
would have affected whether she took the PPI. And it doesnt look like shed have 
been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
 
This means M&S doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G. But M&S has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because: M&S got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because M&S didnt tell Mrs G, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, M&S has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc does have to pay back to Mrs G any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, and so Im not awarding any further compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman