DRN-3748152
The complaint
Mr S complains that advice given by AS Financial Limited to open a self-invested personal 
pension and invest some of his pension funds into high risk investments wasnt in his best 
interests.
Mr S is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
Mr S was an experienced property investor and was interested in a particular German 
property investment (Dolphin Capital), which hed apparently heard about through an 
unauthorised introducer Mr F. 
In December 2013 Mr S consulted Ms A from AS Financial Limited (ASFL) to arrange a 
mortgage on one of his investment properties. He also asked about accessing his pensions 
in order to release tax-free cash (TFC) to purchase a car, and use the funds to invest in 
Dolphin Capital, which he couldnt do through his existing plans.
A fact find was completed which recorded his circumstances as follows;
Aged 59, employed as a chartered surveyor;
Buy to let property portfolio valued at around £8m, from which he received annual 
income of approximately £250,000;
Savings of around £240,000
Two paid up personal pensions totalling around £84,472 to which he last contributed 
to in 2000:
Ms A didnt think high risk investments were suitable for Mr S, based on his age and attitude 
to risk. But she arranged for him to sign letters of authority so ASFL could obtain information 
from his pension providers. Mr S was subsequently advised by another ASFL adviser Mr H. 
Two suitability reports were produced. The first one from March 2014 recorded Mr Ss 
objective as taking greater control of his pensions, transferring them to a Self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP) to invest in a range of investments, and specifically Dolphin Capital. 
ASFL considered a number of options, and recommended a SIPP with provider R, which 
permitted that type of investment. 
ASFLs charges would be 3% of the overall amount transferred to the SIPP plus 1% ongoing 
fees. The report also set out Rs fees for administering the SIPP. The funds would initially be 
transferred to the SIPP in cash, and then a decision would be made about the investments. 
A more detailed report was issued in May 2014 which explained that Mr Ss existing plans 
didnt allow drawdown, nor would they permit the type of investments he wanted to make. 
The report said the Dolphin investment was high risk, but Mr S was aware of this. 
Mr S accepted the advice, and after releasing the 25% TFC, the balance of both plans was 
transferred to the new SIPP with R. In May 2014 Mr S invested £60,000 in Dolphin by way of 
a loan note, held within his SIPP. This investment subsequently failed.
In 2020 Mr S, through his representatives, complained that ASFL shouldnt have 
recommended he transfer his pension funds in order to invest in Dolphin, which was an 
Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS), and too high risk for him.
ASFL didnt uphold the complaint, saying Mr S had approached ASFL with the intention of 
using his pension funds to release TFC to buy a car and invest the remainder in high risk 
investments, particularly German property. It said he was a high net worth individual with 
income of £700,000 with assets of almost £10m, including 10 buy-to-let properties valued at 
around £8.4m, many unencumbered, two of which were overseas properties, including one 
in Germany (10 flats).The investment in Dolphin represented less than 1% of his overall 
portfolio so he had the capacity for loss, and hed been advised to use his cash savings for 
the investment, but hed preferred to use his pension funds. They said Mr S hadnt 
challenged any of the information within the suitability report, including his assets, income or 
attitude to risk. And they disputed that if the risks had been explained to Mr S he wouldnt 
have invested in Dolphin. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S through his representatives referred his complaint to this service, 
saying ASFL hadnt exercised the appropriate duty of care to him as a retail client, as he was 
not in a financial position to bear the risk. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in September 2022, where I set out why based 
on what Id seen so far I wasnt going to uphold the complaint. Prior to issuing a final 
decision I invited both parties to provide any final arguments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider.
My provisional findings
I said there were two things to decide - firstly whether ASFLs advice was in Mr Ss best 
interests, and if it wasnt and it should have advised him differently, would it have made a 
difference to the position Mr S finds himself in.
The advice given by ASFL
If Mr S had heard about Dolphin through an unauthorised introducer Mr F, hed need 
regulated financial advice to arrange the transfer, as the pensions were both valued at more 
than £30,000. Although Mr S says he never consulted ASFL and doesnt recall any 
paperwork in relation to the transfer, the fact-find and suitability reports suggest Mr S dealt 
with two ASFL advisers.
The fact-find and note from the initial meeting in December 2013 records that Mr S has a 
portfolio of 10 properties not including his main residence, in UK, Spain and Germany valued 
at more than £8.4m, yielding annual rental income of £459,480. The adviser noted Mr S 
would rather access his pensions than utilise the £240,000 held in his bank account. The 
advice was given prior to pension freedoms legislation, so after releasing the TFC its likely 
Mr S wouldve had to use his pension savings to purchase an annuity. And it seems he 
wasnt impressed by the level of income an annuity would generate, which may have led him 
to consider other investments. ASFL has confirmed Mr F isnt one of their advisers, it didnt 
introduce Mr S to Dolphin and no other of its clients have invested in Dolphin. 
But even if I accept ASFL didnt suggest or recommend Mr S invest some of his pension 
funds in Dolphin, as a regulated firm, ASFL was required to follow various rules and 
guidance when providing advice to Mr S. 
These are set out in the regulators handbook under the conduct of business sourcebook 
(COBS) and principles for businesses (PRIN). The most relevant rules to this complaint are; COBS 2.1 says a firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
their clients best interests. 
COBS 9.2 says a firm needs to obtain the necessary information regarding their clients 
knowledge and experience in the investment field, financial situation and objectives. 
PRIN 6 says a firm must pay due regard to their customers interests and treat them 
fairly. 
PRIN 9 says a firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice. 
Over the years the regulator has issued supplementary alerts and guidance for firms 
providing advice and recommendations in situations like this. In January 2013, (so before 
ASFL advised Mr S), the then regulator, the FSA, issued an alert regarding advice to transfer 
pensions. Amongst other things, it said in summary, that even if the investor already knew 
about the investment it wished to make and had approached a firm with an interest in 
investing, a regulated firm such as ASFL shouldnt simply facilitate a transfer into a SIPP 
wrapper without providing an assessment of the underlying investments the consumer 
intended to make within his SIPP. So it wasnt enough for ASFL to facilitate the transfer of 
Mr Ss two pensions into a SIPP without including a recommendation about how the funds 
should be invested.
Mr S says ASFL didnt warn him the investment in Dolphin was risky, and had they done so 
he wouldnt have gone ahead. The second more detailed suitability report dated May 2014 
recommended Mr S transfer his pension savings in cash to the R SIPP to enable him to 
invest in German property, specifically Dolphin. It said if Mr S retained his personal pensions 
hed have to use them to purchase an annuity at retirement as neither plan allowed 
drawdown, nor would they permit the type of investments Mr S wanted to make.  
In section 10 underlying investment choice the report explained that Dolphin aims to 
identify, acquire and develop listed buildings in Germany. In order to finance the acquisition 
and development of these properties, a subsidiary of Dolphin called NewCo, will be 
incorporated. NewCo will borrow funds by way of loans from investors who are resident or 
based in the UK through SIPP plans. The loans will be secured against properties purchased 
by NewCo. The Dolphin marketing material was included as an appendix to the report, so it 
seems the adviser had reviewed the investment to some extent. Having done so he 
commented I class this as a high risk investment. However you are comfortable with the 
risks associated. 
The report included an assessment of Mr Ss attitude to risk (ATR), determined from a 
questionnaire hed completed, which assessed him as a medium to low risk investor. The 
report went on People in this category are relatively cautious with investment risk. They 
want to try to achieve a reasonable return and are prepared to accept some risk in doing so. 
These portfolios will exhibit modest yet frequent fluctuations in value. This is at odds with 
the ATR in the earlier report. Its not clear why ASFL deemed Mr Ss ATR to have changed. 
But it seems that prior to making the investment in Dolphin ASFL was aware a high-risk 
investment such as Dolphin didnt align with Mr Ss updated ATR. 
Under the Risks section it pointed out Mr S may not get back the full amount invested. 
Given ASFL had assessed Mr S as medium to low risk I think the warnings about the risks of 
investing in a UCIS scheme should have been made clearer. It should have recommended a 
more balanced portfolio, rather than one exclusively based on investment property. And the 
report contained no details of any other pension provision which Id expect to see. So for 
example its not clear if Mr S had an occupational pension from his employment as a 
surveyor.  So based on this I thought ASFLs advice fell short, as it recommended Mr Ss existing 
pensions be transferred to a SIPP in order to invest in Dolphin which it considered to be high 
risk.
Would Mr S have acted differently?
Having concluded I dont think ASFLs advice was satisfactory, Ive then thought about 
whether Mr S wouldve acted differently had ASFL given appropriate advice. And on balance 
I dont think he would.  
FCA guidance says high risk investments such as UCIS cant be promoted to retail 
investors, only to a select group of individuals  certified high net worth investors, certified 
sophisticated investors, or self-certified sophisticated investors. And even where the 
individual meets the above criteria, the FCA has indicated these investments should only 
make up between 3-5% of the investors portfolio.
I havent seen anything to show Mr S was certified as a high net worth investor. High net 
worth in this context typically means an income of £100,000 and/or net personal assets and 
property, (excluding a main residence or pension funds) valued at £250,000. From the fact 
find completed in December 2013, which Mr S didnt challenge at the time, his net monthly 
income was recorded as £12,000 (annual £240,000), rental property (excluding his private 
residence) valued at just under £8.4m, and cash assets of £160,000 and £80,000. Theres 
also a note to explain Mr S had lent a friend £100,000. 
In the complaint Mr Ss representatives said his annual income at the time of the advice had 
been only £18,000 to £26,000, which doesnt align with the income captured in the fact find. 
As I understand it, Mr S had recently retired from his role as a surveyor, so his employment 
income may have reduced. But in addition to his personal residence valued at £750,000, 
ASFL provided a document listing Mr Ss ten rental properties, their value and the annual 
rental income from each. The actual amount isnt totally clear as two properties receive rent 
in Euros, one property is jointly owned with another party, and some are mortgaged. But the 
income appears to be in excess of £250,000 per year. So even if Mr S didnt sign anything to 
verify his high net worth status, Im satisfied he provided ASFL with information to show he 
was of substantial means.  
Ive said I dont think ASFL did everything it should have done. It arranged to open the SIPP 
and facilitated the transfer of both of Mr Ss pensions in cash into the SIPP, without making 
an assessment in relation to the suitability of the underlying investments he intended to 
make, save to describe them as high risk, which appeared to be incompatible with his ATR. 
From the information Ive seen Mr Ss personal pensions provided no flexibility, didnt 
provide any guaranteed benefits, and the annuity income theyd generate is likely to have 
been modest. And it appears Mr S distrusted pensions and was more comfortable with cash 
and property, so Im not persuaded hed have been interested in diversifying his portfolio into 
for example gilts, with-profits funds or equities even if ASFL had recommended them. 
Mr S was an experienced property investor, had some knowledge of the German market, 
and told us he actually visited a Dolphin development in Germany and was impressed by the 
structure and quality of the work being carried out, although he didnt carry out due diligence 
into the investment itself. I think this demonstrates a high level of commitment to that course 
of action. 
Im sure Mr S was disappointed when the Dolphin investment failed. But that doesnt mean I 
think it would be fair to hold ASFL responsible for his £60,000 loss. The Dolphin investment 
appears to represent less than 1% of his assets, well below the proportion recommended by 
the regulator. He considered his property portfolio to be his pension, which would continue to generate rental income into retirement, as well as offering the longer-term option of selling 
some of the properties to generate cash should he need it in the future. 
I think on balance Mr S is likely to have gone ahead with the investment in Dolphin, no 
matter how strongly ASFL expressed the risks involved. Mr S didnt heed the advice of Ms A 
who said he shouldnt transfer his pension savings for the purpose of high risk investments, 
due to his age (as he was approaching retirement so had a limited horizon for making up any 
losses), and such investments didnt match his ATR. If he wanted to invest in Dolphin, Mr S 
couldve used his substantial cash savings. But he preferred to access his pensions, as he 
didnt understand or trust pensions, he didnt want to be tied to an annuity and wouldve 
preferred to completely cash in his pension to invest in more property if he could.
Having given authority for ASFL to obtain information from his pension providers, Mr S 
decided to proceed with the transfer even though the suitability report stated the Dolphin 
investment was high risk and warned that he might not get his money back. Mr S appears to 
have been more persuaded by Mr F, the Dolphin marketing material, and his own visit to the 
site in Germany, than the warnings given by ASFL. 
So while I dont think ASFL did everything it should have, on balance I think Mr S wouldve 
proceeded with the transfer and the investment in Dolphin regardless. 
So my provisional decision was I didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint and didnt hold ASFL 
responsible for his loss. 
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond to my provisional findings, and extended the 
response deadline when Mr Ss representatives requested it. Despite this, neither party 
responded. 
So Im now able to issue the final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The provisional decision set out in some detail why I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Ss 
complaint. And as neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for me to 
consider, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. 
So while I appreciate this is likely to be disappointing for Mr S I dont uphold his complaint 
and make no award.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman