DRN-2798455
The complaint
Mrs Y complains about how Sainsburys Bank Plc handled her request to return a credit 
balance from her credit card account.
What happened
In June 2020, Mrs Y received a large refund onto her Sainsburys credit card. She contacted 
Sainsburys to find out how she could get this money refunded. Sainsburys explained that 
she would need to post a statement from her current account showing her name and 
address. Mrs Y wasnt happy with this and asked Sainsburys to put this in writing, but the 
call was disconnected.
Sainsburys didnt send her a letter as she asked though and nor did it call her back after the 
call disconnected. So Mrs Y called Sainsburys again and complained about this. 
Sainsburys accepted that it didnt write to her, or call her back and offered her £50 for this. 
But it didnt think it had done anything wrong in following its process to ask for a statement to 
be posted to her.
Mrs Y remained unhappy about this and referred her complaint to this service, where one of 
our investigators looked into it. They said that Sainsburys acted fairly in asking for the 
information it did from Mrs Y. But they felt that it could have been clearer in some responses 
and could have provided clarity around what it would do with Mrs Ys statement once it was 
received  given the concerns she raised. Our investigator felt that Sainsburys should offer 
a further £50 in addition to the £50 already offered.
Mrs Y accepted this, but Sainsburys didnt. It felt that it had dealt with things correctly. While 
it may not have provided a specific answer about what would happen with the statement, 
Sainsburys said that Mrs Ys contact had focused on the fact that she had to provide the 
statement, rather than what would happen with it. Sainsburys felt that as a bank, Mrs Y 
shouldve trusted it, as it told her she should - given its obligations in retaining information. 
So the complaint has been passed to me
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys accepts that it didnt call Mrs Y back, or write to her as she asked here. For that 
its offered £50 and I think thats fair. What I have to decide here is whether Sainsburys 
should offer any more here. In the circumstances, I think it should.
There are a few points here where Sainsburys seems to have made assumptions that Mrs Y 
should have understood more than she perhaps did. I can see why Sainsburys might think 
that it didnt need to explain certain things in any more detail than it would usually. But, each 
customers circumstances are different and whats important is that someones individual 
situation is taken into account. Here, it was clear that Mrs Y felt strongly about the situation 
and wanted to know more than most customers about the process behind getting her refund.
Like our investigator, I dont think Sainsburys has been unfair in asking for the information it 
did. Its more that the service around this could have been better. For example, Sainsburys 
didnt provide specific information about where Mrs Y should send her statement. By the 
point this letter was sent, it was clear that Mrs Y was already concerned about having to 
send the statement, so I think Sainsburys could have been clearer about that.
The calls between Sainsburys and Mrs Y seem to have become heated at points. I think its 
fair to say that this made it difficult for both sides to feel like they were being heard. But when 
Mrs Y expressed her concerns about what Sainsburys would do with her statement  its 
only response was that she should trust Sainsburys and that feedback would be given.
Sainsburys has explained to this service - and Mrs Y now knows - that Sainsburys would 
only use the statement for the stated purpose and then confidentially destroy the document. 
Its also mentioned to us that, as a business, it has to act in line with its obligations and 
responsibilities under the relevant rules. But it didnt explain that to Mrs Y at the time. Had it 
done so  I think it couldve provided some reassurance by tackling her concerns more 
directly and going into a bit more detail about this. Thats not to say it should do that for all 
customers  but I think it wouldve been fair for it to do so here.
That said, Mrs Y clearly felt strongly that the request for a statement wasnt appropriate. So 
there are no guarantees that this wouldve necessarily given her the reassurances she 
needed to send this. But equally, Sainsburys had already failed to respond to her requests a 
few times by this point and so these small failings would only have added to the frustration 
she felt by this point.
Putting things right
Whatever wouldve happened here, while these may only have been small oversights in its 
service, the impact of Sainsburys handling of Mrs Ys requests here meant that she was 
further confused and frustrated. Not to mention that she was put to more inconvenience by 
having to contact Sainsburys again. For that, I think its fair that Sainsburys compensates 
her  and I think an extra £50, bringing the total to £100, is a fair and proportionate amount. 
So Sainsburys should pay Mrs Y £100 in total to resolve her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Sainsbury's Bank Plc should pay Mrs Y £100 in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman