DRN-3038727
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt allow him to renew his car insurance 
in 2016. And that it didnt accept his historic no claims discount (NCD) when he did want to 
reinsure with it in 2020.
What happened
In February 2015 Mr C held a car insurance policy with UKI. In that policy year he 
needed to change his vehicle a number of times. This was initially due to his car being 
involved in an accident and being uneconomical to repair. 
Mr C owned another car that wasnt in use, so his policy was amended to insure this car. 
However, when Mr C took this car for its MOT it failed, so his insurance was returned to 
his original vehicle, despite this still needing some repair work.
Mr C purchased a second-hand car online and this was put on his policy, but he then 
found this wasnt suitable for what he needed, so looked for a different car. He 
purchased another car online and the policy was updated to this fourth car. This car 
unfortunately broke down and wasnt economical to repair, so the policy was then 
returned to insuring the original car.
UKI agreed to the above changes, but during this process warned Mr C that he was 
making more changes to his policy than expected. It referred the later requests for 
changes to the underwriter. While these were accepted, it let Mr C know that it was doing 
this and ultimately that it wouldnt be offering him a renewal from February 2016.
Mr C renewed with another insurer in 2016 and then moved abroad. In 2020 Mr C 
returned from abroad and wanted to reinsure with UKI. He declared the NCD he 
previously held and expected this to be evidenced by his previous policy with UKI. It 
wouldnt accept this and said the records couldnt be carried over from that long ago.
Mr C complained about UKI not renewing his cover in 2016 and the NCD. He said he 
was being discriminated against because he has a disability and cant afford high quality 
cars that dont have issues. UKI didnt uphold his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think UKI had done anything wrong. She was satisfied Mr C had 
been treated the same as other customers and said it was entitled to not offer him a  
renewal. She was also satisfied it wasnt responsible for his NCD as hed insured 
elsewhere from 2016, so this company shouldve taken over his NCD.
Mr C asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He maintained that hed been 
discriminated against for being disabled and unable to afford better cars. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for these reasons: 
I havent seen any evidence UKI has discriminated against Mr C due to his disability. 
Its policy is to contact its underwriter to make a risk-based decision about a 
customer, if there are numerous vehicle changes in a policy year. It applied this 
policy in Mr Cs case and informed him of it; and how it could impact him. I can see it 
continued cover for him until the end of the policy year when it could have stopped 
covering him mid-way, considering how many changes were made. So Im satisfied it 
treated Mr C fairly and in the same way as other customers in the same situation.
Mr C has said that he is more likely to need vehicle changes on his policy due to the 
fact he cant afford higher specification cars, so hes being discriminated against. But 
I dont agree the underwriting criteria does discriminate against him in this way. 
There are many factors that can lead to someone changing their car. For example a 
wealthy person could also want to change their car numerous times in a year, as they 
have the funds to do so. But regardless of their financial situation, the terms apply to 
all UKI customers. Also, Im aware that one of the changes was due to Mr C buying 
an unsuitable car, rather than any faults with the car he bought. So his financial 
situation isnt the only reason for the numerous changes.
UKI is entitled to decide who it has as a customer, in the same way Mr C can chose 
who he insures with. Due to the increased risk he posed by the vehicle changes, UKI 
decided not to offer for Mr C to renew with it. I cant say thats unfair, as this decision 
is based on clear underwriting criteria and its a legitimate commercial decision.
When Mr C left UKI in 2016 his NCD should have transferred to his new insurer for 
that policy year. And as he then moved abroad, he didnt hold UK car insurance for a 
number of years. UKI has explained it wouldve accepted his historic NCD if it was 
from two or less years ago; or up to three years ago, if he hadnt been insured 
elsewhere. Mr C was outside these timescales as he was insured elsewhere in 2016 
and wanted to reinsure with UKI in 2020. So it isnt required to accept the NCD he 
previously held or apply this to a new policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman