DRN-4444476
The complaint
Mr W complains that ReAssure Limited failed to inform him of the intended short-term nature 
of their Cash Fund. He says they also failed to manage the performance of his pension 
funds leading to a financial loss. 
What happened
Mr W had a personal pension with L&G invested in a lifestyle plan. He says his chosen 
retirement date was originally in 2017 but he chose to delay taking his benefits for a further 
five years.
In late 2020 Mr Ws pension was transferred to ReAssure as part of a bulk transfer agreed 
by the High Court. So, ReAssure became responsible for the administration of Mr Ws 
pension and any complaints that arose from it. At that time his pension was valued at around 
£85,000.
In January 2021 Mr W took a tax-free lump sum of around £21,000, leaving around £64,000 
in his pension with ReAssure.  
In March 2023 Mr W received his yearly statement from ReAssure. It showed the value of 
his pension had dropped to around £52,000.
Mr W complained to L&G (who passed the complaint on to ReAssure). He questioned the 
due diligence that was carried out on ReAssure before his pension was transferred to them. 
He wanted ReAssure to make up the shortfall he now had in his pension fund. 
In response to the complaint ReAssure said Mr Ws funds were invested in a Cash 
Accumulator Fund and Fixed Interest Fund. They said the funds had been managed within 
their stated aims and the drop in value was due to global financial circumstances. ReAssure 
noted that although the Cash Accumulator Fund had shown positive returns, there had been 
a 20% reduction in the unit price of the Fixed Interest Fund.
ReAssure went on to say they were responsible for the administration of Mr Ws funds and 
acted on instructions given by the policyholder. But they werent regulated to give financial 
advice to Mr W and suggested he speak to a financial advisor. 
In April 2023 Mr W asked ReAssure what their approach was to re-balancing his plan. 
Specifically, if they buy and sell investments and how they make sure the level of risk 
matched the chosen investment style. ReAssure responded, advising they dont adjust any 
funds without instruction and that Mr W should contact a financial adviser for further 
assistance
ReAssure wrote to Mr W again in June 2023. They said theyd noticed more than 10% of Mr 
Ws money was invested in a cash-like fund. Such funds are lower risk and its possible the 
returns may not be enough to cover policy charges, so the fund could go down in value over 
time. These funds are intended for short term use. 
They explained that if Mr W planned on investing for a longer term, he may wish to consider 
whether his funds are likely to grow enough to meet his future plans. 
Following receipt of this letter Mr W raised a further complaint. He questioned why this was 
the first and only review of his pension ReAssure had conducted in the three years his plan 
had been administered by them. Mr W said he was concerned that ReAssure had chosen to 
invest his funds in low-growth policies on his plans transfer to them.
He asked ReAssure to accept responsibility for not advising him of the short-term nature of 
these funds he was invested in. And asked that they compensate him for his losses. 
ReAssure first responded to Mr W in July 2023 saying that they had already addressed the 
issues Mr W had raised in their earlier responses to his complaint.
They sent a further complaint response in September 2023 specifically addressing Mr Ws 
point that ReAssure hadnt advised him of the nature of the Cash Fund. But ReAssure said 
they were unable to give Mr W financial advice and could only give factual information. So, 
they didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr W was unhappy with ReAssures responses and so brought his complaint to our Service. 
Our Investigator looked into things but concluded that Mr W was responsible for monitoring 
his own funds and seeking advice if he needed it. She thought ReAssure had acted fairly in 
administering his funds and responding to his complaints.
Mr W disagreed. He said it was wrong that a pension provider could switch a customers 
pension fund without accepting financial responsibility for its poor performance.
As Mr W disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this will come as disappointing news for Mr W but, for broadly the same reasons 
as our Investigator, Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain my reasons below. 
To be clear, my decision here focuses on the complaints that Mr W has made to ReAssure, 
those being the performance of his funds in recent years; and his concerns that the letter 
from ReAssure in June 2023 was the first time theyd warned him that his fund choice was 
intended for short term use. 
I havent considered whether it was suitable for Mr W to be in a lifestyle fund as that goes 
beyond the scope of his complaints to ReAssure and this decision. 
Mr W says the information L&G gave him describes his pension as being invested in a 
lifestyle profile. Plans of that nature were typically designed to reduce the level of risk a 
pension was subject to, the closer to retirement a consumer was.
Mr W seems to be under the impression that ReAssure chose investments for him when his 
pension moved from L&G to them. Therefore, hes of the opinion that losses to his fund 
arose because of decisions ReAssure made. But I dont think thats right. Thats because, 
Mr Ws funds were already invested in the Fixed Interest and Cash Funds prior to his 
pension moving to ReAssure. Mr W says that originally his retirement date was expected to be in 2017. Generally, Lifestyle 
funds sought to protect the investment growth which was built up during the life of a pension 
plan by automatically moving investments into lower risk funds as the member got closer to 
retirement. It seems likely Mr Ws funds were moved into what was considered less risky 
funds as he approached his expected retirement age in 2017. Thats in keeping with the 
lifestyle profile of his pension. 
However, a large proportion of Mr Ws funds were still invested in the Fixed Interest Fund 
and while its likely the aim of the Lifestyle plan was to protect the fund as much as possible, 
this isnt something that can be guaranteed. Its still dependent upon the performance of the 
investment markets which no pension provider can predict. 
In Mr Ws case his funds being held in the Fixed Interest Fund coincided with changes in the 
market due to the economic and political instability arising from events such as the global 
pandemic and the Russian war. These events affected the markets significantly and in turn 
likely affected the value of Mr Ws pension, as well as most investment products generally.
I can understand why Mr W is concerned about the drop in value of his funds and why that 
would cause him to complain to ReAssure. However, our Service wouldnt generally uphold 
a complaint based on poor performance alone. I can only uphold this part of the complaint if I 
thought ReAssure had caused the loss Mr W has suffered. And based on everything I have 
seen, I dont think they have.
Its also important to note that ReAssure were Mr Ws pension provider. And while they had 
many obligations towards him, it wasnt their role to give financial advice. ReAssure dont 
hold the required permission to give financial advice to their customers. Instead, they 
recommend their customers seek advice from financial advisers.
ReAssure wrote to Mr W in June 2023 specifically pointing out that he had more than 10% of 
his pension invested in cash-like funds. They also said these funds could go down over time 
and are more intended for short-term use. So, Im satisfied ReAssure explained the purpose 
of funds such as this and that the value wasnt guaranteed.  
I appreciate why it would concern Mr W that hed never received a similar letter before, and 
why he felt that meant ReAssure hadnt reviewed his pension before. But I dont think 
ReAssure acted unfairly here. Ill explain why.
As Ive previously said, ReAssure werent allowed to advise Mr W on his pension 
investments. They could only give him factual information. So, any review of Mr Ws 
pension by ReAssure wasnt intended to include an assessment of the suitability of his 
investments or recommend any changes. 
I note that ReAssure sent Mr W annual statements regarding his pension. In 2020 the 
document was entitled yearly review but in recent years its been called an annual 
statement. I can certainly appreciate why Mr W might have felt ReAssure should review his 
pension investments for him given the terminology used by ReAssure in 2020. But thats not 
its role. And regardless of its name, I think the document aims to give Mr W an overview of 
his pension each year along with information about his holdings and the options available to 
him.
In recent years the Regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, has sought to encourage 
firms like ReAssure to give greater levels of support to their customers while keeping within 
the existing boundaries between providing advice and information. And I think thats whats 
happened here. ReAssures letter in June 2023 gave Mr W a greater level of guidance than 
hed previously received in his annual statements. There werent specific rules which said ReAssure must provide information to Mr W like it did 
in June 2023. And, just because ReAssure gave greater guidance to Mr W in June 2023, 
doesnt automatically mean theyve acted unfairly before. I think its likely ReAssure did this 
in an attempt to provide a better level of service, but that doesnt mean the service they 
previously provided was below the level expected of them.
ReAssure needed to provide Mr W with information that was clear and not misleading. They 
also needed to act in his best interest. So, Ive considered if the information Mr W had 
previously been sent by ReAssure met those standards.
The statements ReAssure sent recorded that Mr W was invested in the Fixed Interest and 
Cash Funds. It also contained information such as;
Review your investment
You should regularly review the funds youre invested in especially if your 
circumstances or plans have changed. Please keep in mind that the value of any 
investment can go down as well as up. You should always make sure that your policy 
and the funds youre invested in match your attitude to risk and what you have 
planned for your money. For example:
 If you stay in low risk funds too long you may miss out on strong growth in financial 
markets and your policy could be more vulnerable to the effects of inflation.
 On the other hand, if youre planning on taking a large proportion of your savings 
soon, being in higher risk funds puts you at risk of sudden movements in the stock 
markets affecting what you may get back.
ReAssure also included leaflets and information about their Investment Pathways, which 
explained that different options were available dependant on when and how customers 
wanted to access their funds. They suggested speaking to a financial adviser or 
Pension Wise before making any decisions.
Mr Ws statements also gave an indication of what ReAssure thought his pension might be 
worth in the future. It explained that assumptions had been used such as the growth rates 
based on Mr Ws current mix of investments. In the statements Ive seen from 2021, 2022 
and 2023 they estimated that the longer Mr W remained invested in his current mix of funds, 
the less his pension would be worth. For example, the 2021 statement estimated Mr Ws 
pension would be worth £61,500 at age 70, dropping down to £53,900 by age 90. 
Im satisfied that the information contained in Mr Ws yearly statements was clear and it 
encouraged Mr W to review his investments regularly. It explained that Mr W had a 
responsibility to ensure his investments were suitable for him which wasnt something 
ReAssure could help him with. The options available to Mr W were explained, and 
information given as to how he could get advice if he wanted it. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
ReAssure did anything wrong or acted unfairly towards Mr W in the communications they 
sent to him prior to June 2023.
My final decision
Taking into account everything Ive said above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman