DRN-2180337
Complaint
Mrs S has complained that Pinnacle Insurance plc has unfairly increased the cost of her pet
insurance policy.
Background
Mrs Ss lifetime pet insurance policy has been underwritten by Pinnacle since renewal in 
February 2020. 
Mrs S complained to Pinnacle about the significant increase in her premium. She says the 
size of the increase is unfair - and that she cant go elsewhere as her dog has existing 
conditions that wouldnt be covered under another policy.
Pinnacle says the premium has been calculated correctly for the risk presented to it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by explaining that businesses are entitled to decide how much to charge for
the insurance cover it provides, and I dont have the power to tell a business what its
insurance should cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should
operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mrs Ss policy is too high, she
should have been charged less for the policy or that she should be charged less in the
future.
Insurance premiums are calculated so that they can reasonably be expected to cover the
likely claims arising from an insurance contract, with a safety margin to ensure the long-term
viability of the insurer. The calculation is generally based on the probability of the insured
event occurring, combined with the likely financial loss resulting from the claim. All insurers
take a number of different factors into account when doing this calculation. 
A factor commonly taken into account is the age of a pet, and the price of the insurance will 
generally increase each year as the pet gets older - as most insurers consider there's more 
risk of needing to make a claim. Other factors which contribute to the price increases are 
things such as increased vet costs, changes in insurance premium tax and other changes in 
underwriting.
In 2020 when Pinnacle took over as the insurer it assessed the risk it was insuring to make 
sure it would be able to cover claims made by its customers in the future  theres nothing 
wrong with it doing this. 
An insurer is unlikely continue to provide any cover if it knows its going to make a
loss. It could find itself in a position where theres no money to pay the claims. So
its fair for an insurer to take steps to avoid this happening, much like Pinnacle did in 2020.
Unfortunately for Mrs S, this meant she saw her premium increase significantly.
I appreciate Mrs Ss premium has seen a significant increase and this puts her in a difficult 
position. But having carefully reviewed the information Pinnacle have provided about how 
her premiums were calculated, I can see that she hasnt been treated any differently to how 
any other policyholder in the same position would have been treated. So I cant say Pinnacle 
has singled her out and treated her unfairly compared to its other customers or that it should 
charge her a lower premium going forwards.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman