DRN-2859679
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Santander UK Plc restricted their accounts when they 
discovered a fraud prevention marker by a third-party bank. They would like to be 
compensated for the impact this had on them.
 
What happened
 Mr and Mrs S held a joint account with Santander, and Mr S held an account in his sole 
name. 
Mr S applied for a credit card with Santander. During the application Santander found that 
another bank (Bank B) had recorded a marker against Mr S with the CIFAS fraud prevention 
database. This marker said that a company Mr S had been director of had received 
fraudulent funds.
Santander declined the credit card application and took the decision to close Mr S accounts, 
including the joint account with Mrs S. They issued a letter saying the accounts would be 
closed in 30 days. They also restricted activity on the account, so payments couldnt be 
made to or from the account. They said the money could be withdrawn if Mr S went in to 
branch with ID or transferred out to another account in his name.
Mr S had no idea about the CIFAS marker, and tried to resolve the matter with Bank B.
Unhappy that Santander were closing his accounts, Mr S raised a complaint. Santander 
looked in to what happened but didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They explained they 
reserve the right to withdraw banking facilities at any time. They said the accounts would still 
be closed, but if Mr and Mrs S could provide evidence the marker was placed in error, they 
would review their decision.
Shortly after this letter was sent, Bank B made the decision to remove the marker and 
contacted CIFAS about this. Mr S informed Santander, and they reversed their decision to 
close the account. 
Mr and Mrs S were still unhappy with Santanders response. They said closing the accounts 
had left them destitute and unable to make scheduled payments. They were unhappy 
Santander hadnt taken account of their years of banking history and credit files. Mr S 
explained the account closure had taken a toll on his mental health.
One of our investigators looked in to what happened. They initially felt that Santander hadnt 
done anything wrong by closing the account, as the bank were entitled to rely on CIFAS 
markers left by other businesses. 
They later reconsidered and said that they didnt believe the terms of the account for 
immediate closure applied here. They said it wasnt fair for Santander to rely solely on the 
CIFAS marker to restrict the account. They said the terms of the Santander account didnt 
allow for closure based on fraud happening outside of Santander. Having considered the 
impact on Mr and Mrs S, they said Santander should pay them £250 for the trouble and 
upset caused by restricting their accounts.
Both Santander and Mr S disagreed. Santander felt that the CIFAS marker from Bank B 
reasonably suggested to them that Mr S had been involved in fraud. They said as soon as 
they became aware of Bank B removing the marker, they took steps to remedy the situation. 
They also felt the term they relied on to close the account was broad enough to include 
suspicion of fraud on accounts outside of Santander.
Mr S disagreed with the amount of compensation suggested by the investigator.
Because no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me for decision. 
Since then Mr S has clarified to me that he had no other bank accounts to transfer the funds 
in to, but Mrs S did. He also said he felt an amount of £500 to £1,000 compensation would 
be appropriate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 They key question for me to answer is whether Santander were fair and reasonable in 
restricting the use of Mr and Mrs S accounts once they found the CIFAS marker. Having 
considered what happened, Im not satisfied they were. Ill explain why.
Santanders terms allow them to close an account for whatever reason, provided they give 
two months notice. But in this case, they only gave Mr and Mrs S 30 days notice. And the 
account was restricted immediately, and Santander would only allow specific withdrawals, so 
in practice I consider it was closed with no notice.
Section 17.3 of the terms of the account say that Santander can give less than the two 
months notice if either if Mr or Mrs S act in any way to give rise to reasonable suspicion of 
fraud or other criminal activities. Section 6.6 says Santander can refuse payment 
instructions for the same reasons  so restrict the use of the account.
Restricting the actions an account can take can have a large effect on a consumer and can 
be incredibly disruptive to their lives. Particularly if they are left without access to other 
banking facilities and will miss regularly scheduled payments. So, its not a step Santander 
should take lightly. 
To record a marker with CIFAS the bank or financial business must have enough evidence 
to prove that the individual reported has carried out fraud, and they must have carried out 
sufficient checks to demonstrate this. Santander argue that because of this, they are entitled 
to rely on the information Bank B recorded with CIFAS, and therefore had reasonable 
suspicion of fraud taking place. So, they say they didnt do anything wrong by restricting the 
accounts immediately.
I agree that in general Santander can accept the information from Bank B at face value, and 
so I can see why they would then have concerns about Mr S. However, they are still obliged 
to treat Mr and Mrs S fairly, which should encompass their wider knowledge of the 
consumers and how theyve managed their accounts. I dont think it fair to rely solely on the 
CIFAS marker.
Immediately restricting the accounts would suggest Santander felt there was some urgency, 
or risk to the bank. In this case Id expect to see some evidence of this. But here once Bank 
B removed the marker Santander were happy to continue providing the accounts to Mr and 
Mrs S. This tells me the CIFAS marker was the only concern they had.The information on the CIFAS marker doesnt make it seem like there was an imminent risk 
to Santander. It was recorded over two years prior to it being found by Santander. And I can 
see that its clear its reported in relation to a business current account. But Mr and Mrs S 
only held personal accounts with Santander. 
Looking at Mr and Mrs S accounts, there doesnt appear to be anything alarming about 
them either  Ive not seen anything to suggest there was anything concerning about the 
transactions or money held on either account.
Overall, while I accept the CIFAS marker would cause concern to Santander, Im not 
satisfied it was fair or reasonable for Santander to restrict the account immediately. There 
doesnt appear to have been any financial risk to Santander. If Santander wished to end their 
banking relationship, in accordance with the account terms and conditions they should have 
given Mr and Mrs S the two months notice and allowed the account to be used in this time. 
And in any case the issues with Bank B wouldve been resolved before then.
Ive gone on to consider the impact this restriction had on Mr and Mrs S. Ive not seen any 
evidence of specific financial losses from the accounts being restricted. So, Ive gone on to 
consider compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Santander cant provide a list of direct debits that went unpaid  but based on the account 
history I think its likely payments for council tax and other regular commitments were missed. 
It would have been inconvenient for Mr and Mrs S to then have to make other arrangements 
for these regular payments.
Mr S was left without banking facilities, which I accept would have been very distressing. 
Although this is mitigated by Mrs S still having access to her own banking, which means 
there was some scope for carrying out banking. Santander also said they would allow certain 
transactions  such as those made in branch, or a transfer to another account. Its 
unfortunate these werent suitable for Mr S. 
Its also clear that Mr S is a vulnerable individual, and that suddenly losing access to your 
banking would put him under a great deal of stress.
However, I do have to bear in mind that the root cause of this issue is the CIFAS marker left 
by Bank B  which they subsequently decided to remove. Im not considering whether it was 
fair for Bank B to leave this marker, but I note they decided to remove the marker relatively 
quickly once Mr S queried it. So, I consider a lot of the distress caused was down to the 
existence of this marker, which isnt Santanders responsibility.
Ive also considered that while it wasnt fair for Santander to restrict the account, they did 
then leave the door open to reverse their decision if the CIFAS marker was removed. And 
they duly did so. Although Ive no doubt it was a distressing time for Mr and Mrs S, the 
situation was resolved within two weeks.
Overall, when I consider the distress Santander caused to Mr and Mrs S, I think the amount 
Mr S has asked for is considerably higher than I would ask Santander to pay. I also dont see 
it necessary to award compensation to Mr and Mrs S individually  accounts belonging to 
them both were affected, so I feel a single award is appropriate. Its up to them if they wish to 
divide it.
I recognise how strongly Mr S feels about this, and my decision will likely come as a 
disappointment to him. But I consider £250 compensation to be a fair reflection of the 
distress caused by Santander.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Santander UK Plc to pay Mr and 
Mrs S £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by restricting the accounts.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Ombudsman