DRN-1800577
The complaint
Miss W complains The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc is unfairly holding her responsible for a 
loan which she did not apply for.
What happened
In August 2019 Miss W was visiting a friend in Turkey.  She said she was working for her 
friend in her shop at the time.  He friend would often pay her in cash, and she had little 
reason to withdraw cash from the ATMs there.
On one occasion, she tried to use the ATM - but it would not allow her to withdraw any 
money.  It returned her debit card and she thought nothing more of it at the time.
On 9th September, Miss W got in touch with RBS.  She had discovered a loan application 
had been made in her name of £19,000.  These funds had been paid into her account and 
had been spent.  She had also realised the debit card in her possession was not hers  but 
belonged to another RBS customer who was a male.  She thinks her debit card was taken 
and swapped when she had attempted the failed transaction at the ATM.
RBS looked into the application and the disputed transactions.  The loan had been applied 
for online using Miss Ws online banking details.  The money had been paid into her account 
on 22nd August 2019 and then over the course of the next week, a number of chip and PIN 
transactions had been carried out using Miss Ws original card and PIN.
Following its investigation, RBS said it was going to hold Miss W liable for the loan funds.  It 
subsequently gave her notice to close her account.
Miss W then came to this service.  She said RBS was being unfair and she asked that we 
look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think he could ask RBS to do anymore.  Miss W disagreed.  She 
made further submissions and thought we should also look into the affordability aspect of the 
loan too.  In other words, did RBS make an irresponsible decision in allowing someone to 
successfully apply for a loan in Miss Ws name based on the information which it had.
Our investigator asked RBS about its lending decision.  It showed us it had used credit 
agency checks to decide if the loan was affordable.  By this, it meant that credit agencies 
would check on Miss Ws income across all accounts  not just her RBS account.  Based on 
this figure, the loan and the repayment were deemed affordable.
So, based on this information, our investigator thought RBS had been responsible in its 
lending decision.
Miss W asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss Ws frustration and I am sorry to say that I wont be upholding this 
complaint either. I think she authorised the loan application and the subsequent transactions.  
I dont think she knew exactly how much money was going to be going in and out of her 
account  but I think she knew what was happening.  I think she willingly handed over her 
details for all this to happen.
loan and disputed transactions
Im afraid I dont think Miss Ws account of what happened here is plausible. The application 
of the loan required a fraudster knowing Miss Ws online banking details.  Miss W says she 
didnt have these written down and neither did she give them to anyone.  So, I cant see how 
these were obtained.  When I look at the circumstances of the case as a whole, I think it is 
more likely than not that Miss W gave them to a third party.
The transactions out of the account were then only possible because a third party had 
possession of Miss Ws card and PIN.  Miss W says she doesnt know how her card was 
taken from her.  She suggests maybe at the ATM  she also suggests it was swapped from 
her purse.  Im afraid the first proposition just isnt plausible  that she entered her card into 
the ATM and the ATM returned another card to her.  And here, I remind myself that the ATM 
Miss W was using was in Turkey.  I just dont think its likely that she used an RBS card and 
another RBS card was returned to her.
The second proposition may be plausible  but I cant see the benefit of replacing Miss Ws 
card with another.  Why not just steal Miss Ws card?
However, neither scenario provides an explanation as to how Miss Ws PIN came to be 
compromised.  Again, she said she did not share this with anyone else.
I know Miss W has asked our investigator about how she can prove this was not her 
applying for the loan and making the transactions.  I dont think she does need to prove that 
because I think its likely that it wasnt Miss W making the transactions.  
The difficulty Miss W has here is the issue of authority.  I remind myself that its for RBS to 
prove Miss W authorised these transactions and not for Miss W to prove she did not.  But I 
am satisfied from what I have seen that she did authorise them.
affordability
Ive seen RBS had carried out affordability checks by using the credit reference agencies.  I 
havent seen which of Miss Ws accounts were used in order to assess her income and in 
turn the affordability of this loan  but the assessment showed Miss W was receiving an 
income of £2100 from different sources.  Her outgoings showed she had sufficient 
disposable income to cover the loan repayments.
So, I cant say RBS did anything wrong in approving this loan.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman