DRN-3549479
The complaint
Mr G complains that Cynergy Bank Limited (Cynergy) gave him poor customer service 
including delays in them transferring a Cash ISA from a third party provider to Cynergy.
What happened
Mr G applied for a Cynergy Online Cash Individual Savings Account (OISA) in June 2021 
with an interest rate of 0.47%. Mr G also had an earlier issue number of the OISA (issue 5). 
Within a few days, he noticed that Cynergy had introduced another issue (14) of an OISA 
which was paying 0.54% interest, so he contacted Cynergy and asked for his account to be 
transferred to the higher interest paying OISA. 
Mr G and Cynergy exchanged secured messages over the following week. Cynergy told Mr 
G that he couldnt transfer funds to their newer OISA issue, as he had already subscribed to 
one cash ISA that tax year. Mr G responded that as he was in his cooling off period for the 
account, he wanted Cynergy to update the issue number of his OISA to reflect the increased 
interest rate on issue 14. 
Cynergy informed Mr G that in order to merge his OISAs he would need to close one of the 
accounts and transfer the funds into another account. They also told him how to complete an 
internal transfer. 
Mr G rang Cynergys customer service number and spoke to a call handler. He says the call 
handler did not identify Mr G and the call handler was very unhelpful in answering his 
questions. Mr G says that the call handler placed him on hold for 30 minutes while trying to 
transfer Mr G to his supervisor, but the line disconnected. 
Mr G called Cynergy back and spoke to another call handler who promised to call back Mr 
G, but Mr G says the call handler did not ring him back, so Mr G contacted Cynergy again. 
Mr G says he spoke to a different call handler and he took a message for the previous call 
handler to call back Mr G, but he still didnt get a call from him. Mr G made a complaint with 
Cynergy.
As Mr G had no contact from Cynergy, he contacted them again on 25 June 2021. The call 
handler he spoke to informed him that his ISA was under review and the transfer from his 
third party provider had not been completed yet. Mr G explained that he requested the 
transfer on 10 June 2021. Mr G contacted Cynergy again on 30 June as he had not had a 
response from Cynergy. Mr G says the call handler put him on hold for 20 minutes and then 
the line disconnected. 
Cynergy upheld Mr Gs complaint. They explained to Mr G that he could apply for as many 
OISAs and complete an internal transfer form to transfer funds into the issue he wanted to. 
Cynergy also said that they couldnt change the interest rate from one issue to another as 
these are separate products.
Cynergy apologised to Mr G for the attitude and conduct of the initial call handler he talked to 
and they also apologised for misinformation they gave him about the transfer. Cynergy 
confirmed that the transfer request was sent to the third party ISA provider on 30 June and 
not 10 June as a call handler told Mr G. Cynergy also apologised for the delay on this and 
for their online banking team not responding to his queries. Cynergy offered Mr G £160 
compensation for the errors, but Mr G declined this as he said that £500 was reasonable for 
the issues he had encountered. As Cynergy did not respond to his requests for this 
compensation, Mr G brought his complaint to our service.
Cynergy increased their offer of compensation to £250. Mr G declined the increased offer 
and he said that he would want £500 to settle the complaint. Our investigator said the £250 
compensation was fair as this recognised the poor customer service he received and the 
delay in transferring his third party ISA to Cynergy. Our investigator explained that when 
Cynergy received the funds on 5 July 2021, they backdated this to 10 June 2021, so he 
could benefit from the interest at an earlier stage. Our investigator also explained that while 
Mr G was told incorrect information how to open the newer OISA issue on the phone on 18 
June, he was told by secure message later on in the day how to complete this correctly, but 
he didnt do this.
Mr G asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, Mr G said that it was not properly explained to him how to transfer his ISA to the 
newer issue on 18 June and it sounded like they were giving him wrong information and 
contravening ISA regulations. He also said that he didnt find it a fair practice either to 
constantly change interest rates/issue new OISAs to go through the hassle to get an 
increased interest rate. He recommended that Cynergy should automatically adjust the 
interest rate in line with new product interest rates and notify their customers about it. 
Mr G said that this complaint is similar to a complaint he previously made about an ISA 
transfer and he was awarded £500 for that complaint, so he feels this would be a fair amount 
of compensation for this complaint also.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the 
enforcer for the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts 
as an informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look 
at the circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into 
account relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial 
business has failed their customer in any way.
Where we find they have, we make awards designed to make the business put things right 
with the complainant customer. Our awards are not designed to punish a business or to 
make it change the way it acts in order to protect other customers in the future. That is the 
role of the regulator.
Mr G has made a number of points to this service and Cynergy and Ive considered and read 
everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal 
body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
I want to be clear to Mr G that I cant instruct Cynergy to amend their processes for 
introducing new issues of their OISAs, as this is a commercial decision for Cynergy. So I 
cant ask them to automatically move Mr G onto their highest rates of interest, when this is 
not something they currently do. Only the regulator can make Cynergy change the way they 
act in this regard. While I cant ask Cynergy to change their processes, I have looked into whether they have 
treated Mr G fairly during the course of the events that unfolded. But Im not persuaded that 
Cynergy did treat Mr G fairly and Ill explain why.
Its clear that Cynergy let Mr G down on a number of occasions. They have admitted to 
doing so and they have apologised for this. Not only did they tell Mr G incorrect information 
at times, they failed to give him a call back on several occasions or respond to some of his 
messages and the transfer was not actioned as quickly as it should have been. He should 
not have needed to have chased Cynergy as often as he did, and it would have been 
distressing to find out that the transfer didnt start to take place until 30 June, despite the 
request being made on 10 June and his third party ISA maturing on 22 June. 
So Ive looked at what Cynergy did to try and put things right. The difference between the 
interest rates from the account his funds went into  issue 13 and the account he wanted 
them to go into - issue 14 was 0.07% (issue 13 was paying 0.47% and issue 14 was paying 
0.54%). But as Cynergy backdated the funds to 10 June to ensure that Mr G did not lose out 
on interest, he is likely to have been financially better off as a result of this even though the 
funds didnt credit the slightly higher interest rate that issue 14 offered.
I say this as Mr G would not only have been earning interest with his third party provider 
where the funds were held until the maturity date (and potentially interest after this date also, 
until Cynergy received the funds), but he would have also been earning 0.47% as a result of 
Cynergy backdating the transfer to 10 June. So it appears that Mr G did not suffer a financial 
loss as a result of how Cynergy put things right, regarding them backdating the interest.
But Mr G will have also suffered from inconvenience by having to chase Cynergy for 
information and updates on his transfer, and he will have suffered from distress from 
receiving poor customer service  including, but not limited to a lack of response from 
Cynergy, his experience on the telephone with call handlers and the long times he had on 
hold, only to be disconnected and he was given incorrect/conflicting information.
So Ive considered what compensation would be fair here. I know Mr G strongly feels that 
£500 compensation would be fair as he says this is what he was paid on a similar complaint. 
But here, I can only look into the merits of this particular complaint Mr G brought to our 
service and not look into other complaints, as the circumstances of other complaints may 
have been different, even if Mr G may say they were similar. 
Compensation is a discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a business 
has acted wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer 
over and above that which naturally flows from the event. When we recommend 
compensation, it is often modest and within our established guidelines.  
Im persuaded that Cynergys offer of £250 is fair. I say this because the offer is more than I 
would have awarded Mr G for the issues hes raised if Cynergy did not offer him any 
compensation. Im satisfied that the level of compensation offered recognises the impact that 
the multiple examples of poor customer service had on Mr G. So although I know Mr G will 
be disappointed, it follows that I wont be asking Cynergy to do anything else.
My final decision
Cynergy Bank Limited has already made an offer to pay £250 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my final decision is that Cynergy Bank Limited should pay Mr G £250.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman