DRN-3234498
The complaint
The estate of the late Mr A has complained that PSA Finance UK Limited should not have 
granted Mr A a conditional sale agreement. 
Mr As son, who Ill call Mr A2, has brought this complaint in his capacity as executor. 
What happened
Mr A2 says Mr A spoke to him in February 2019 to let him know he was planning on 
acquiring a mid-specification car and that it would cost less than the car he had at the time. 
Mr A was acquiring it from a dealer, who Ill refer to as R, that hed had previous dealings 
with.
On 22 February 2019, Mr A wrote to R to cancel the order. A couple of days later Mr A 
changed his mind and wanted to proceed with the acquisition. On 28 February 2019, Mr A2 
says he called R to express his concerns about Mr As decision making. He was ultimately 
concerned Mr A was 88 and had shown signs of confusion, which meant he could be 
vulnerable.
It looks like R came to visit Mr A at home on 3 March 2019 to discuss the acquisition. The 
following day I understand Mr A went to R to collect the car, but it wasnt the specification he 
thought hed ordered. This is because the car didnt come with a satellite navigation system 
or reversing camera. Expecting the deal to have gone through, Mr A2 says he contacted 
Mr A to ask if he liked the new car but was told the wrong one had been ordered. Mr A2 says 
Mr A told him hed had no option but to pay about £2,000 more for the car he wanted. 
The next day Mr A2 says he spoke to R again about his concerns about Mr As decision 
making. And he also wrote to R as well. In summary, Mr A2 said:
Mr A was the decision maker, and that Mr A2 had no say in his decisions. Mr A was 
not aware of the contact, and Mr A2s role was no more than a concerned son. 
Mr A had known R over the years and had always been satisfied with the service. 
Hed never felt the need to ask for evidence the purchase was sensible, but in this 
case he wanted some reassurance. 
Thered been some confusion around the purchase and whether it was going ahead, 
as well as around the specification car thatd been ordered. Thered also been some 
confusion about what Mr A had said about his wifes health.
He was worried Mr A was given finance for a loan to be paid off over three years 
considering he was 88. 
He wanted to know all the relevant Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidelines had 
been followed and that Mr A understood everything correctly.  
It looks like R wrote back to Mr A2 to say it didnt have authority to discuss the transaction 
with him. But it also said, in summary:
It was happy to allay any concerns Mr A2 or his family had about the acquisition. 
The car didnt arrive for a few days. Given the concerns, this would give Mr A2 or 
another family member the time and opportunity to visit the showroom with Mr A to 
clear up any points. 
If Mr A2 were to get authority from Mr A, R would discuss matters with him further. 
Mr A decided to proceed with acquiring he car and he collected it on 12 March 2019 and 
entered into a three-year conditional sale agreement with PSA. Mr A was given a part 
exchange allowance of around £7,000. He put money towards the deal himself. And took out 
around £14,000 of finance with PSA. Payments towards the agreement were around £380. 
There was no interest added to the agreement. 
Mr A2 says the paperwork was completed incorrectly initially because the cars details were 
incorrect. And he also said the payments were around £70 more per month than the 
previous car.
Mr A2 says Mr A used the car for a couple of months but stopped using it in May 2019 when 
his health sadly deteriorated. On 15 May 2019 a Power of Attorney was set up. Mr A2 says 
Mr A was admitted to hospital. The Power of Attorney was registered with the Office of the 
Public Guardian in July 2019. I understand Mr A was in hospital for five months before going 
to a care home having been diagnosed with vascular dementia. 
Mr A2 entered into correspondence with R towards the end of 2019. He wanted assurances 
R followed the relevant rules given Mr A was vulnerable. R essentially said that it did follow 
the relevant rules. It said its staff were trained and that Mr A did have decision making 
capacity at the time he entered into the agreement. It said Mr A knew what he was acquiring 
and that he didnt show any signs of confusion. R also pointed out that various people at the 
dealership knew Mr A and his wife, and had done for around 15 years. R also said Mr A 
asked it not to discuss things with his family. But R did offer to buy the car back from Mr A 
for £21,500. 
Unhappy with the situation, Mr A2 brought the complaint to our service. PSA sent a final 
response in October 2020 not upholding the complaint. In summary, it said:
It wasnt there at the point of supply so its difficult for it to know what was discussed. 
It wouldve expected R to have followed the correct procedures.
The documentation didnt highlight any issues. 
There was insufficient evidence Mr A didnt comprehend what he was doing, or that 
he wasnt given enough time to make decision. 
It had spoken to R who said Mr A was very much financially aware and specific with 
regards to the type of car he wanted. 
Mr A had signed the documentation and shouldnt have done so if he disagreed with 
the terms or thought they werent fully explained. 
It carried out an assessment to ensure the agreement was suitable and affordable. 
If Mr A wanted to end the agreement early there were options for him. 
It has a special team to support customers who may need more support due to a 
change in circumstances. 
Sadly, Mr A passed away in 2021. 
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt make any recommendations. Mr A2 
reiterated that the appropriate checks werent carried out. He said R didnt act appropriately 
given Mr A was acting differently. Mr A2 said Mr A never before had difficulty making 
decisions. Hed not previously shown confusion or required clarity. And never before had 
Mr A2 felt the need to get involved to express his concerns. Mr A2 said hed provided clear evidence R, as an agent of PSA, didnt behave as it should 
have done. And that it didnt offer appropriate care and protection to a vulnerable customer. 
He thought Mr A had been pressured into signing a deal. Mr A2 also thought PSA, through 
its agent, had breached FCA guidelines by rushing Mr A into an agreement.
I issued a provisional decision that said: 
I first want to say that Im very sorry to hear Mr A passed away. I want to thank Mr A2 for the 
time and effort hes gone to in bringing the complaint to our service. 
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend 
any discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure 
Mr A2 and PSA that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, 
its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the 
key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
I think the key question I need to ask myself in this case flows from one of the FCAs 
Principles. Did PSA pay due regards to the interests of Mr A and treat him fairly? 
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and what I believe to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.  
Mr A acquired the car under a regulated conditional sale agreement with PSA. And our 
service is able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
I think the thrust of Mr A2s position is that hes unhappy R didnt do more to make sure the 
agreement was appropriate for Mr A. And that ultimately PSA should not have offered the 
finance. PSA and R are separate entities. But section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA) says PSA can be held responsible for antecedent negotiations carried out by the 
credit broker  in this case R. So Im satisfied I can consider the complaint about the 
negotiations that were carried out in this complaint against PSA. And I can also consider 
whether PSA acted fairly by granting finance. 
The evidence here is rather conflicting. On the one hand, its not in dispute the sale didnt go 
seamlessly. Mr A changed his mind once on deciding whether he wanted to go ahead with 
the acquisition. And the car that was initially supplied wasnt of the specification Mr A was 
expecting. Further, Mr A2 himself, as a concerned son, had informed R he was troubled by 
the deal. So R was put on notice that the situation may have changed since Mr A last 
acquired a car from it. And Mr As health did deteriorate, so he only had a couple of a 
months worth of use of the car. 
But on the other hand, R has explained it followed the relevant rules and its staff were 
suitably trained. Further its also said it had known Mr A for a long time, and that it felt he had 
the decision-making capacity at all times. Indeed, the fact he wasnt happy with the 
specification of the initial car would indicate he knew what he wanted. Further to this, R 
explained to Mr A2 it wanted to reassure him, and that there was still time before the deal 
would be finalised for Mr A to be accompanied by a representative to make sure all was well.
Further to this, PSA has pointed towards the documentation that was signed by Mr A that 
sets out the terms of the arrangement.  
So there are contrasting views of what happened.As a starting point, Ive thought about Mr As capacity to make decisions when he entered 
into the agreement with PSA. A key argument of Mr A2 is that Mr A lacked the ability to 
contract and so the contract should be voidable under Scottish Law. If I were to find Mr A 
lacked ability, or in other words, mental capacity, there could be grounds to uphold the 
complaint and direct PSA to take action if it was aware, or ought to have been aware. 
I think its important to note when Mr A2 contacted R he said that Mr A was the decision 
maker. And that Mr A2 had no say in the decision that were made. This would indicate Mr A, 
at that point, had the capacity to make decisions. Moreover, Mr A granted a Power of 
Attorney a few months after he entered into the agreement with PSA. The solicitor acting for 
Mr A certified it to say Mr A understood its nature and extent, that is, he had the capacity to 
grant it. The Power of Attorney was also registered with the Office of the Public Guardian. So 
this also tells me Mr A did have capacity to make decisions after he entered into the 
agreement with PSA. Ive also not seen any medical diagnosis to show Mr A lacked mental 
capacity at the relevant point. 
That being said, I can appreciate people can have good and bad days. Mr As health 
deteriorated, certainly after he entered into the agreement. And lacking capacity to make 
informed decisions doesnt necessarily happen instantaneously. So Ive also considered the 
mental capacity guidance in the FCAs consumer credit sourcebook (CONC). The guidance 
can be found in the FCA handbook under CONC 2.10. It says firms need to consider the 
customers individual circumstances when granting credit under a regulated credit 
agreement. And the starting point is set out in CONC 2.10.4:
A firm should assume a customer has mental capacity at the time the decision has to 
be made, unless the firm knows, or is told by a person it reasonably believes should 
know, or reasonably suspects, that the customer lacks capacity.
In this case, Mr A2 has said he raised his concerns with R, and that Mr A was acting out of 
character. And evidence Mr A2 supplied of calls he had with R suggest R recognised the 
confusion.
Ive reviewed the list of indicators that a person may have some form of mental capacity 
limitation as set out in CONC 2.10.8. One of those is where a firm has an existing 
relationship with a customer, and the customer makes a decision that appears to be out of 
character. Given Mr A had acquired cars from R before, I dont think acquiring another one 
would seem out of character. It sounds like Mr A changed his cars every few years. But 
Mr A2 has said changing his mind about the purchase and being confused about the 
specification being supplied was out of character. As Ive said above, hes provided evidence 
R itself thought Mr R was confused on certain things. And another indicator on the list is 
where an informed person (such as Mr A2) raises a concern as to the capacity. As is the 
case here. 
So Ive thought about what PSA, through R, ought to have done with this information. CONC 
2.10.9 says: 
(1) A firm should not unfairly discriminate against a customer who it understands, or 
reasonably suspects, has a mental capacity limitation, in particular, by inappropriately 
denying the customer access to credit. 
(2) It would not be inappropriate not to grant credit  where the firm reasonably believes 
the agreement or decision would be voidable at the instance of the customer or the 
agreement is void.CONC 2.10.10 also says firms should make sure they have suitable business practices in 
place for fair treatment of customers who they know or suspect may have a mental capacity 
limitation. And it goes on to say in CONC 2.10.12 that firms should make responsible lending 
decisions and assist customers where possible to make an informed borrowing decision. 
PSA and R were also required to present the arrangement in such a way that it was as easy 
as possible for Mr A to understand and give him sufficient time to weigh up the information. 
They also needed to make sure the agreement was affordable and suitable. Theres 
ultimately a balance to be struck between a persons right to make a decision with that 
persons right to protection.
Theres lots to think about here. And I do empathise with Mr A2. He was a concerned son 
doing what he could to safeguard his father. And, as Ive said, Mr A2 himself told R that Mr A 
was the sole decisions maker. I dont think Mr A2 would have said this if he considered at 
that point Mr A lacked capacity.
Ive also thought about the overall sales process and Mr A2s comments about the pressure 
put on Mr A to sign the deal. But I think Mr A was given enough time to make a decision 
about entering into the agreement. This wasnt a situation where the whole deal was 
completed on a single day within one trip to R. The car had to be ordered, and it was 
subsequently changed. It looks like from the time Mr A enquired about getting the car it was 
longer than a fortnight before he signed the conditional sale agreement. And R let Mr A2 
know it would be willing to speak to a family member with Mr A if he wanted. Even though 
the deal Mr A ended up taking was slightly more expensive than he initially expected, on 
balance, I think he was given sufficient space to make an informed choice on entering into 
the agreement. 
Moreover, given Mr A was driving at the time, I dont think I can find that the borrowing was 
unsuitable. And Ive not seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable either. 
So I dont find I have the grounds to uphold the complaint on this basis. 
However, Mr A2 has also questioned PSAs decision to offer Mr A a three-year finance 
agreement when he was 88 and vulnerable. 
For the purposes of this complaint, and in line with the FCA guidance for firms on fair 
treatment, a vulnerable customer is someone who, due to their personal circumstances is 
especially susceptible to harm, particularly when a firm is not acting with appropriate levels 
of care. The lines are slightly blurred here because a customer with capacity issues of 
course could be considered vulnerable. So a lot of the considerations are the same and Im 
not going to repeat everything. Ive set out above about why I think PSA has, on the whole, 
acted fairly. But Ive also gone on to consider whether theres any other reason PSA hasnt 
acted appropriately after Mr A2 raised concerns it was giving Mr A a three-year agreement 
when he was 88. 
I dont think Mr A was vulnerable just because hed reached a certain age. But of course, 
there are common characteristics involving health and life events associated with old age. 
As Ive said above, Mr A was driving at the time. It seems as though he was living 
independently and, at the time he entered into the agreement, there was no formal process 
in place to help him such as the Power of Attorney. 
Age is also a protected characteristic under the Equality Act 2010. And service providers 
shouldnt unlawfully discriminate against someone based on their age. There are, however, 
certain provisions for financial service providers to make decisions based on someones age 
when providing their services. But it doesnt mean firms can have age limits and refuse to 
lend without any justification. In Mr As case, it wouldnt have been fair for PSA to simply refuse to lend to him because he was 88 at the time he applied for finance. And PSA didnt 
do that. 
Taking all this into account, Im not persuaded PSA acted unfairly by granting Mr A a three-
year credit agreement just because he was 88. 
Ive finally thought about what Mr A2 has said about the errors on the paperwork. Hes said 
the car was recorded incorrectly with PSA. It looks like this was an administration error. And 
I can understand why Mr A2 has included this as part of the complaint. But I dont think this 
would give me the grounds to say the deal should be unwound. I think the remedy for that 
would be to correct the paperwork, and what is held on PSAs systems. Given Mr A2 settled 
the agreement now I suspect its not causing an issue, but if thats not true, he should let us 
know in a response to this provisional decision. 
All things considered, while Im very sympathetic to Mr A2, I dont find I have the proper 
grounds to direct PSA to buy the car back from him. While Mr A2 may not agree, I hope it 
helps to have had someone independent and impartial look into things for him.
PSA hasnt submitted anything further. 
Mr A2 responded. He said he agrees that lending for three years is acceptable if Mr A had 
capacity. And he accepted my conclusion regarding the errors on the paperwork. But he also 
wanted to provide further information for me to consider. 
Mr A2 wanted it noted the complaint was originally brought in his capacity as an attorney 
prior to Mr A passing away. He also wanted to highlight Mr A and his wife originally 
registered a Power of Attorney in 2014. And around 2016 Mr As wife became unwell and so 
Mr A became her attorney and carer. And as Mr A deteriorated, he changed his lawyer 
around the end of 2018. At this point Mr A2 was concerned about Mr As capacity. Mr A2 
said the more recent change to the Power of Attorney was to remove Mr As wife from it. But 
that it should have been done well before that point, which Mr A2 says Mr A didnt 
understand. 
Mr A2 also included articles from two law firms discussing fluctuating mental capacity. And 
he said it was perfectly reasonable to say Mr A understood the need to change the Power of 
Attorney, but that doesnt mean he understood far more complex situations where he had 
difficulties making a decision. 
Mr A2 provided evidence of how people are affected by vascular dementia, and the different 
stages of it. He said prior to 2015 Mr A had a stroke and he was informed he would likely 
develop vascular dementia. And that he was diagnosed with the condition in 2019 shortly 
after he acquired the car. So Mr A2 says Mr A was already in mid stages of the condition 
when he acquired the car. 
With regards to Mr A2 saying Mr A was the decision maker, at that point, he says the 2014 
Power of Attorney hadnt been invoked and so Mr A2 couldnt be the decision maker. But he 
wanted to make clear he certainly didnt think Mr A had capacity at the time. And this was 
the reason he contacted the R. 
Mr A2 also wanted me to understand that it wasnt possible for him or another family 
member to travel with Mr A to R to discuss the acquisition for various reasons. And Mr A2 
highlighted Mr A was getting upset and didnt want help from family members because he 
was getting confused and having difficulty comprehending things properly.Mr A2 agrees that there was enough time for a person with capacity to make an informed 
choice about entering into the agreement. But he didnt think Mr A had capacity. And he 
reiterated earlier points that indicate Mr A had difficulty making decisions. Mr A2 also set out 
why he didnt think the requirements under CONC 2.10.10 had been followed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to thank Mr A2 once again for taking the time to put together his submissions. Ive 
reviewed everything in detail and, while I have a great deal of sympathy, the further evidence 
hasnt led me to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I think the 
key point from Mr A2s submissions is that he thinks Mr A lacked capacity at the time he 
acquired the car. So Ive thought again about what hes said. 
Its not in dispute that Mr A2 had concerns at the time Mr A entered into the agreement with 
PSA, and that he put R on notice. Ive taken on board Mr A2s comments about how he felt 
about Mr As decision-making abilities at the time. Along with the evidence he submitted 
detailing part of the conversations he had with R. And Ive thought about what Mr A2 has 
said about the stage of vascular dementia Mr A was likely at around the time he acquired the 
car. 
I think its important to first note I havent been provided any specific medical evidence from 
a suitably qualified medical practitioner to demonstrate Mr A lacked capacity to enter into the 
agreement. I also have to bear in mind Mr A2 didnt tell R that Mr A lacked capacity. The 
evidence of the telephone calls between Mr A2 and R are limited. From what I can see, Mr A 
was living independently at the time. He was still driving. And Mr A2 has acknowledged Mr A 
did have capacity to make some decisions. Moreover, as I pointed out in my provisional 
decision, I think R did allow Mr A sufficient time to make an informed choice. And, while it 
wasnt ultimately possible, R was willing to discuss the acquisition with Mr A2 or another 
family member. 
When Ive weighed all this up, I dont think I have sufficient evidence to show Mr A lacked 
capacity at the time he acquired the car. And I dont think I can safely conclude the way R 
arranged the deal was unfair. 
Im sincerely sorry to hear how things played out. As I explained above, there needs to be a 
balance struck between not discriminating against customers with capacity limitations and 
that persons right to protection. Making a decision isnt straight-forward in this case. But 
where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive (as some of it is here) I reach my decision 
on the balance of probabilities. In the particular circumstances of this complaint, for the 
reasons given above, I dont think I have proper grounds to safely conclude, on balance, 
PSA unreasonably granted finance or that it needs to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr A 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman