DRN-3709565
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage that Mr and Mrs H took out in 2020 with Bank of Scotland 
plc trading as Halifax. Theyre unhappy that when they changed property, Halifax wouldnt 
honour the same rate theyd already been offered.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 5 September 2022, I set out my provisional 
conclusions on this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr and Mrs H and Halifax, 
and not in dispute. So I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Mr and Mrs H being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of 
the main points, rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs H applied for the mortgage in February 2020, via a broker; Halifax issued 
a mortgage offer on 30 March 2020, which was valid until 30 September 2020. The 
interest rate product attached to the mortgage was a fixed rate of 1.50% running until 
31 March 2022.
In August 2020, Mr and Mrs Hs vendor withdrew the property from sale and they had 
to look for a new property to buy. They found one, and on 24 August 2020, their 
broker spoke to Halifax on the phone. Halifaxs caller handler issued an illustration 
with the same interest rate product that was in the original mortgage offer, and the 
application was re-keyed with the new property details. 
Halifax initially proposed a desk-top valuation, but then realised the loan to value 
ratio (LTV) was slightly higher than before, which meant a physical valuation was 
required. The earliest date a physical valuation could be carried out was 
25 September 2020. Halifax then told the broker that Mr and Mrs H would need to 
apply for a new rate as the 1.50% product was no longer available. At short notice, 
and not wanting to risk losing their home for a second time, Mr and Mrs H agreed to 
a five-year fixed rate of 2.95%. Halifax issued an offer on 6 October 2020, and the 
purchase completed a month later. 
Mr and Mrs H complained, saying that if Halifax had arranged the valuation sooner, 
theyd have been able to complete before 30 September 2020, the expiry date of the 
original offer. Halifax offered £150 compensation for the mix up over the valuation but 
didnt think it was to blame for Mr and Mrs H having to take the higher rate. 
Mr and Mrs H referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator initially upheld the complaint and recommended Halifax pay the 
difference between the original rate and the new rate for the duration of the original 
rate, but otherwise leave the five-year fixed interest rate running until its end date. He 
also thought compensation should be £300 rather than £250. Mr and Mrs H accepted 
the recommendation, but Halifax challenged it. The investigator subsequently 
changed his mind and rejected the complaint altogether. He did so after Halifax 
explained that the physical valuation was always necessary, due to the LTV increase, 
and even if the booking had been placed earlier, the valuation would still not have 
been carried out before 25 September 2020.
Mr and Mrs H asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial 
businesses, and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate 
generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with 
individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of 
the ombudsman service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive taken account of what 
Mr and Mrs H have said about expiry date of their first offer always being 
30 September 2020 from the outset, after the investigator mistakenly referred to it as 
having originally been June 2020 and then extended to 20 September 2020.
Having taken into account everything that both parties have said and provided, Ive 
reached a different conclusion on how this case should fairly be settled. Because of 
that, I set out my current findings in this provisional decision, in order that both 
parties have the opportunity to comment before I finalise my decision.
My starting point here is that the mortgage offer for the original property always had 
an expiry date of 30 September 2020. That being so, if Mr and Mrs H had completed 
their purchase of that property before 30 September 2020, theyd have done so on 
the 1.50% fixed rate product. Once that property fell through and they were forced to 
find a new one, the question I have to consider is whether there was ever any 
prospect of them obtaining a mortgage on the new property with that same interest 
rate product.
Mr and Mrs H have argued, quite plausibly on first glance, that but for the time taken 
to carry out the valuation, its likely they would have been able to complete by 
30 September 2020. Their argument isnt without merit, however as the parties 
making it, it falls to them to show that if their application had proceeded as normal 
from the outset, then its more likely than not that theyd have completed on or 
before 30 September 2020. 
Ive emphasised the phrase more likely than not because just as likely isnt 
enough. Based on all that Ive seen thus far, Id struggle to conclude that completion 
on or before 30 September 2020 was more likely to have happened than not.  But in any event, Im not persuaded its the issue on which the outcome of Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint turns. The position is a little more nuanced than that. 
The expiry date of 30 September 2020 applied to the original offer for the original 
property. The change of property, and the increased LTV, meant a new offer would 
always be required. Any new offer would supersede the original, would have its own 
expiry date and, critically, could only be issued with an interest rate product that was 
available at the time the new offer was issued.
When Mr and Mrs Hs broker spoke to Halifax on 24 August 2020, the call handler 
located the rate product code (ending in 005) from the original mortgage offer and 
succeeded in raising an illustration for a new mortgage at 1.50%. This clearly gave 
the impression that the product was still available at that point, and the expectation 
thus created informed the discussions between Mr and Mrs H and their broker about 
how to proceed. But I think that expectation was false; Ill explain why.
Theres an internal note in Halifaxs record of the complaint investigation dated 
20 November 2002, which I reproduce below verbatim:
"Use the product code, don't check when it expiries (sic). As long as the product is 
showing. It doesn't say when it will expiry. we would do the MI and not check 
anything else. Useless (sic) the Broker ask us to
The inference Ive drawn from this is that when Halifax raised the illustration for the 
new mortgage on 24 August 2020 incorporating product code ending 005, it did so 
without having checked the product was still available to put into a new offer. It 
wasnt, and Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Hs broker already knew this, because on 21 
August 2020, she said, in an email to them:
I can ask Halifax whether they will honour the 1.5% rate and change the property 
details. They may say no or insist the expiry date remains or a product currently 
available.
(My emphasis in bold.)
Putting all of the above together, Ive concluded that the product code ending 005 
had already been withdrawn before Mr and Mrs H were forced to look for a new 
property to buy. 
The investigator has requested evidence of the withdrawal date from Halifax; Id ask 
that it include that information with its response to this provisional decision. In the 
meantime, this would point to that the answer to the question I posed earlier being 
that there was never any prospect of them obtaining a mortgage on the new property 
with product code ending 005, regardless of whether they completed on or before 
30 September 2020. Halifaxs error was to create a false expectation that they could. 
So Im satisfied that this complaint should be upheld; the next question for to decide 
is how Mr and Mrs H should fairly be compensated for Halifaxs error.
When a business gives wrong information, we dont expect it to place the customer in 
the position theyd be in if that information had been correct. We expect it to put them 
in the position they would have be in if the incorrect information hadnt been given. 
What should have happened here is that, instead of being told theyd need to choose 
a new product in late September 2020, Mr and Mrs H should have been told this on 
24 August 2020. So I have to assess what they would have done if the same news 
had been given to them a month or so earlier than it was.Ive seen the evidence from Mr and Mrs H of their discussions with their broker about 
the possibility of changing to a different lender that was offering a deal at 2.29%. 
Although lower than the 2.95% deal Halifax was proposing for the offer on the new 
property, the thinking was that starting afresh with a new lender at a time when 
underwriting checks were quite onerous was a riskier option than staying with 
Halifax. 
It seem to me more likely than not that if Halifax hadnt misled them and 
Mr and Mrs H and their broker had held this discussion a month earlier, theyd have 
reached the same conclusion. Mr and Mrs H had already lost one property; I dont 
think theyd have risked losing another by starting the entire mortgage underwriting 
process again with a new lender.
In that context, my provisional conclusion is that Mr and Mrs H would still have taken 
the 2.95% five-year fixed rate deal they now have with Halifax. Its also likely the 
valuation would still have been carried out when it did, given the limitation there 
appears ultimately to have been on the availability of the surveyor to conduct it. 
All things considered, it seems to me that Mr and Mrs H are already in the position 
theyd have been in if Halifax hadnt messed up on 24 August 2020. But theyd have 
made their decision sooner, and reached that same position having avoided a great 
deal of the stress and anxiety that came from having their expectations raised 
unrealistically and then lowered back to reality. 
Mr and Mrs H deserve compensation for being put through all of that unnecessarily. 
Taking everything into account, Im presently minded to assess fair compensation at 
£400. Halifax sent Mr and Mrs H a cheque for £150, but they have told us they never 
cashed that cheque. Im inclined to take them at face value on that, but Ive no doubt 
Halifax would be able to show if the cheque had been cashed.
 I gave the parties two weeks to reply to the provisional decision; that time has now passed.
Mr and Mrs H havent commented; Halifax has confirmed product code 005 was withdrawn a 
matter of days after the original offer was issued, but didnt think the award of £400 was 
warranted. It hasnt provided any evidence to suggest the cheque for £150 was cashed, so I 
am taking Mr and Mrs H at their word when they say it wasnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
I wont be departing from my provisional conclusion.
Halifax asks how Mr and Mrs H were inconvenienced by what happened on 24 August 2020 
bearing in mind it had no impact on when the mortgage would have completed, and they 
were unaware the product had been withdrawn. As I explained in the provisional decision, 
Mr and Mrs H were wrongly led to believe they could still have that rate, only to find out 
weeks later that they couldnt. 
Its for having their hopes raised and then dashed that I have made this award. It would have 
had less impact on them if theyd been given the right information on 24 August 2020. 
Finding out when they did, so much closer to the transaction end point, will have caused much more upset, and contributed to the rush of getting a valid offer in place ready for 
completion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part by ordering Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax to pay Mrs and Mr H £400 compensation for their time, trouble and upset.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman