DRN-2213449
The complaint
Mr P complains about ReAssure Limiteds (ReAssure) poor customer service when he 
phoned to ask about his pension policy statements. 
What happened
Mr P called ReAssure in early February 2020 to ask when it would be releasing his annual 
pension policy statement. He told the call handler he didnt have his policy to hand, so 
suggested the call handler might want to ask him security questions such as his postcode or 
National Insurance number. The call handler asked Mr P questions such as the end date for 
the policy and the funds it was invested in, along with other details including his date of birth. 
Mr P couldn't answer the questions about his policy, so he didnt pass the security questions.  
And the call handler said he couldnt give Mr P the information he wanted. Mr P asked to 
speak to a manager. After putting him on hold, the call handler said a manager wasnt 
available and, as Mr P hadnt completed security, he couldnt arrange a manager call back. 
The call ended. Mr P rang back shortly after and spoke to another call handler who asked 
different security questions (which Mr P answered) and who gave him the information he 
wanted. 
Mr P complained to ReAssure, which responded shortly after. It explained the purpose of its 
security questions and said that normally if a manager isnt available to speak to a customer, 
a call back should be arranged. ReAssure felt its representative could have handled the call 
better and said it had recommended further training for him. It apologised because Mr P 
hadnt received a professional service when he first called.
Mr P wasnt happy with ReAssures response and said the situation warranted 
compensation. ReAssure recognised the call might have caused Mr P some inconvenience, 
but said it didnt agree it should pay compensation. It told Mr P he could contact our service 
if he wasnt happy.
Mr P complained to us. Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think ReAssure 
needed to do anything else to put things right. Whilst she recognised the handling of the call 
probably caused Mr P frustration, she thought this would likely have lasted for a fairly short 
time, as ReAssure managed to resolve his concerns - and apologise - soon after. So, the 
investigator felt ReAssure had already done enough.
Mr P didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P thinks ReAssure should pay him compensation to reflect the inconvenience caused by 
its handling of the situation  and in particular, the first call handlers rudeness.  
ReAssure didnt agree.
Ive listened to the call that Mr Ps complained about. And having done so, I dont agree with 
Mr P that the call handler was rude. Im satisfied he was polite and explained he was 
restricted in the types of security questions he could ask. That said, I appreciate Mr Ps 
frustration at being asked security questions he didnt feel he could answer - particularly as 
he told the call handler upfront that he didnt have his policy documents to hand. And, 
without those, Id imagine most people would struggle to answer the types of questions 
asked. I can also appreciate that his frustration was probably made worse at being told a 
manager wasnt available and that a call back couldnt be arranged because hed failed 
security. 
But I also need to keep in mind from the evidence Ive seen that Mr P did receive the 
information he was looking for soon after and on the same day. And from what Mr P said, it 
seems his experience of dealing with ReAssure during that call was much different. So, it 
appears to me that any frustration or inconvenience Mr P felt was likely to have been 
short-lived. And Im also mindful ReAssure has apologised to Mr P and told him the call 
handler involved would receive additional training.
Were not the industry regulator. So, my role isnt to punish ReAssure for anything that went 
wrong. Instead Ill look to see if ReAssure has dealt with Mr P fairly and reasonably. And, if it 
hasn't, if it needs to do anything else to put things right. And while thinking about that I need 
to be clear that not every instance of poor service warrants compensation.
In this case I think ReAssures already done enough to put things right. So I'm not going to 
direct it to take any further action. I recognise Mr P had a less than satisfactory experience 
during one call, and that this caused him some frustration. But I think ReAssures apology 
and recommendation for retraining is sufficient to address that frustration. 
For completeness, Ill add that Mr P seems to think ReAssure should reimburse him, not 
least for the time he spent making the phone calls. But I dont think thats reasonable. 
This was an enquiry led by Mr P. And whilst I appreciate he made two calls in fairly quick 
succession, he got an answer to his query during the second call. Overall, I dont find the 
time spent dealing with the query to have been excessive. 
Im satisfied ReAssure Limiteds response is fair in the circumstances, so I wont be asking it 
to do anything more. I realise Mr P is likely to be disappointed, but I hope he understands 
the reasons for my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require ReAssure Limited to do anything further. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman