DRN-3843535
The complaint
Mrs B says Advantage Insurance Company Limited didnt ensure that repairs to her car were 
completed properly when she made a claim on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
One of Advantages approved windscreen repairers (firm N) fitted a windscreen to Mrs Bs 
car in September 2021, but as it was fitted badly, water got into the car and flooded the 
footwell. Firm N sent several technicians to inspect and / or to rectify the work over the next 
few months. After the windscreen was refitted, a whistling noise started. And during a repair 
attempt in February 2022, a technician damaged the cars paintwork and headliner when 
applying a primer and glue using a knife. 
Mrs B made a formal complaint to Advantage in February 2022, having kept it updated on 
the poor repair attempts before that. In March 2022 Advantage asked an independent 
engineer to inspect the car. He said the cause of all the damage was the windscreen repair. 
He noted that Mrs B had taken her car for an inspection of the damp and its cause by firm H 
recently and that its report said there was no sign of remaining water damage by then. But 
he estimated the cost of the repairs to the paintwork and headliner to be over £2,000. 
On 25 April 2022 Advantage agreed to pay for the repairs, once Mrs B submitted an invoice 
from a garage of her choice. It also offered her £225 compensation. Mrs B can show that 
she sent the invoice to Advantage on 28 April 2022, but she got no response.
 
Mrs B told us shed planned to sell the car in December 2021 (as shed previously ordered a 
new one to be delivered at that point) but she couldnt do so, given the damage to it. A sale 
was agreed in May 2022 (at £28,500) but Mrs B says that wasnt the cars full market value, 
as it was sold in a damaged state. Initially she wanted Advantage to pay for all the repairs, 
but Mrs B said later on that she thought it should pay for the cars loss of value instead, and 
for the damp inspection / report shed had done, plus compensation. Mrs B doesnt think 
Advantage should record the claim, given that what led to it wasnt her fault. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Bs complaint. He noted that shed paid for finance on 
the new car from December 2021 and had to continue paying the finance instalments on the 
older car until it was sold. He thought Advantage should refund the latter payments to Mrs B. 
He also thought it should pay for the damp investigation report and raise the compensation 
for distress and inconvenience to £350. Advantage asked for evidence that Mrs Bs car was 
sold at a loss, given that similar vehicles to hers were on sale for less than she was paid for 
her car. It said Mrs B hadnt tried to mitigate her losses by trying to sell the car earlier. And it 
said she should have chased it for a response to the invoice. As there was no agreement, 
the complaint was passed to me for review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage says Mrs B should have mitigated her losses, so we asked her why she didnt 
pay for the repairs to the car herself and claim the cost back from Advantage. She said all 
her savings were used on the £6,000 deposit for the new car in December 2021. Mrs B told 
us it wasnt an option to postpone the purchase either, as the new cars price rose each 
month and there was a waiting list for cars of its type. I think her explanation is reasonable. 
Although I think Mrs B could have put the car up for sale in December 2021 (given the 
significant extra expense she was facing from then onwards) I understand why she didnt do 
so. Attempts were still being made to repair the windscreen - and the car was damp. I think it 
was reasonable in that situation for Mrs B to assume that it wouldnt sell for its full market 
value. I also think it was reasonable for her to expect that effective repairs would be done 
early in 2022 - at no cost to her. Mrs B didnt know that the repairs would drag on for so long 
- or that extra damage would be caused to the car during rectification work in February 2022. 
  
Mrs Bs main financial loss was caused by paying for the finance on two cars at the same 
time. In my opinion, Advantage is responsible for that. I dont think a windscreen repair done 
by its repairer in September 2021 should have caused problems that were still ongoing well 
beyond December 2021. Advantage says the service Mrs B got from firm N was appalling, 
and I agree. But had it been more proactive in dealing with firm Ns actions  I think the issues 
could have been resolved much more quickly and Mrs B could have sold her car earlier. 
Advantage didnt take full responsibility for the situation until April 2022. I dont think Mrs B 
not chasing its lack of response to the invoice she submitted that month is significant. The 
main point is that she can show she got the estimate, as requested, and sent it in promptly.
  
Mrs B told us her car would have been worth £32,000 in May 2022 (rather than the £28,500 
she got for it) had it not been damaged. She thinks Advantage should pay for the reduction 
in its value. Mrs B didnt provide any evidence to support her view, so we checked the 
national trade guides estimates for Mrs Bs car. The guides are based on extensive national 
research, and we think they reflect likely market value selling prices reliably. In September 
2021 the average sum quoted by the guides for Mrs Bs car was £28,348. In May 2022 it 
was £27,966. So it seems the damage didnt lead to a loss in the cars value. 
 
To put matters right, I think Advantage should pay for the £120 damp investigation / report 
(plus interest) as it was a reasonable expense for Mrs B to incur. And I think it would be fair 
for it to pay Mrs B £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience. I think Advantage 
should also refund the relevant finance payments, for the reasons set out above. Although 
its an uninsured loss, we can consider any financial losses that arise as a direct result of  
delays caused by an insurer and were reasonably foreseeable. Mrs B told Advantage 
months earlier that shed ordered a new car for delivery in December 2022. In my opinion, 
Advantages delays deprived her of the chance to sell her old car at that point.
I think its reasonable for Advantage to record Mrs Bs claim on her policy. I know she 
doesnt think thats fair, but many consumers make claims that arent caused by any fault on 
their part, and even non-fault claims are recorded.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
Refund Mrs B for the cost of the £120 damp investigation / report. Add interest to that sum, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Refund the £379 monthly finance payments made by Mrs B from December 2021 to 
May 2022. Add interest, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of each 
payment to the date of settlement
Pay Mrs B £350 compensation in total for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
If Advantage thinks its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mrs B how much it has taken off. It should also provide a tax 
deduction certificate if required, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.  
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman