DRN-2887592
The complaint
Mr O complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) were wrong to
report a late payment marker to his credit file.  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in May 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
AESEL have explained that a repayment plan was agreed by a debt collection agency on
their behalf in February 2016. They say that repayment plans would last for a maximum of
12 months after which a new arrangement would need to be agreed. They say that would
have been explained to Mr O when the payment plan was established.
Ive reviewed the business system notes and can see that calls were made to reset payment
plans in March 2017 and again, around the same period, in 2018. But I dont think theres
enough evidence in that fact alone that Mr O knew the payment arrangement would need to
be revisited annually. Ive not seen he was told that and, although I accept it would be usual,
I dont accept a typical consumer would necessarily understand the payment authority would
need to be revisited or understand when that review would take place. 
Ive seen that Mr O was called on 25 March 2019 by the debt collection company working on 
AESELs behalf. Mr O didnt answer and its AESELs position that this was a call to review 
the payment plan and, as Mr O didnt answer, the payment authority ended, and a payment 
was missed. The system notes dont explain the purpose of the call. They simply explain that 
Mr O didnt answer.
I dont think theres evidence the business made sufficient efforts to talk to Mr O and agree
the payment plan for the next 12 months. Ive not seen, for instance, that they wrote to Mr O
to warn him the plan would need to be discussed again or that theyd texted him or emailed
when the single call they made to him failed.
When Mr O did become aware the plan had reached the end of its term he arranged a new
payment plan and that suggests he would have been able to do so if the business had made
more effort to reach out to him when the previous agreement was ending.
So, I think it would be fair for AESEL to remove the late payment marker as I think the late
payment was likely to have happened because Mr O wasnt given enough warning that the
payment authority wasnt open-ended, and a review was needed.
Mr O has explained that the presence of the marker only became clear to him when he
applied for a new mortgage in 2020. Hes not asking to be recompensed for this, but I think
its fair for me to consider it.
Mr O provided correspondence to suggest the late payment marker was being discussed
with the broker as a possible reason for his mortgage application being declined. However, I
think there were other reasons the application may not have been successful such as the
fact Mr O was engaged in a repayment plan. So, Im not asking AESEL to compensate Mr O
for the failed credit application.
But I do think their actions have inconvenienced Mr O. Hes had to escalate his complaint to
this service, and I dont think AESEL communicated very effectively with him to ensure he
was aware when payment plans were due for renewal. In those circumstances I think
AESEL should pay Mr O £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above I am expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell
American Express Services Europe Limited to:
remove the 2019 late payment marker from Mr Os credit file;
pay Mr O £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AESEL didnt provide any further evidence for me to consider but Mr O did.
He said the business should have tried to contact him before they stopped taking payments 
and he explained the negative impact the late payment marker would have had on his ability 
to get credit at all or obtain favourable interest rates. He said all hed ever wanted to achieve 
was to have the late payment marker removed.  
Putting things right
I can understand Mr Os frustration about this problem, and I hope the redress Im 
suggesting goes some way to putting things right for him. Ive not seen any information that 
would change that opinion, however; and my provisional decision therefore remains 
unchanged and becomes my final decision on this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and to tell American Express 
Services Europe Limited to:
remove the 2019 late payment marker from Mr Os credit file;
pay Mr O £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hesexperienced.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman