DRN-3627142
The complaint
V, a limited company, complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc wont increase its borrowing limits 
and provide financial help.
What happened
V had an overdraft limit of £25,000. It applied to increase this and is unhappy that it was 
declined by Clydesdale and that important payments wouldnt be made over the limit. V 
considers that a change in branding at Clydesdale has affected its operation.
Clydesdale said it hadnt made a mistake. It had written to V about the application for an 
increase in its overdraft of £50,000. It had explained why it didnt think that this was 
affordable for V. And that it could reconsider if V provided its up to date accounts and 
projections. It was holding security for the borrowing and would need to arrange a valuation 
if V wanted one property to be released from this. It had rebranded but this wouldnt affect 
the service it provided to V. Clydesdale provided details of its financial difficulties team if V 
wanted to access assistance.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He noted what V had said 
about the impact of economic and trading pressures. But he said that Clydesdale was 
entitled to make a commercial decision about whether to lend money or pay excesses over 
any overdraft limit. It was also up to Clydesdale how it structured its business operations.
V didnt agree. The director which represents it said that Clydesdale hasnt assisted. He 
didnt think that its standards were up to those of other financial businesses. V is a small 
family company and he didnt think Clydesdale was interested in it. V had asked it and this 
service for help and not received anything. He didnt think we were impartial. No account had 
been taking of all the problems in the economy that had affected V. It would be considering 
legal action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service provides informal dispute resolution and we arent the regulator. I know that V 
wants this service to try and mediate a solution regarding its financial problems. But Im 
afraid thats not our role. We look impartially at what both V and Clydesdale have said and 
provided in assessing this complaint.
I appreciate that V is a long-standing business and that it has been affected by economic 
problems arising for example from the impact of the pandemic and inflation. The director 
says that his understanding was that he had agreement to a higher overdraft limit for V and 
that influenced a previous decision to change banks. I can see from publicly available 
records that V gave Clydesdale a floating charge over its property and assets in September 
2010 to support borrowing. And V has stated that its borrowing in relation to those assets 
now is low.
Ive reviewed a copy of correspondence Clydesdale sent to V in January 2022 following an 
application to increase its overdraft limit by £50,000. It had reviewed accounts for V for 2020. 
And it explained that its turnover and profit wouldnt support this borrowing. It provided 
details of how to appeal the decision.
Im afraid that our investigator is right here. Its a matter for Clydesdale to decide what 
borrowing if any to provide to V. Its explained that this decision now is about the 
serviceability of borrowing and cant rely just on security. And here it has followed its normal 
process. Its also explained to V what additional information might assist in any further 
review. So, I dont have a basis to require Clydesdale to do more or to find its not acted 
reasonably. I cant see evidence to support that it had made any past binding commitment to 
lend V anything more.
Clydesdale has explained that to consider releasing security it would need updated 
valuations. And that if V is in financial difficulty then it should speak to its team about that. I 
havent seen evidence Vs done this and so assess what other help might be available or 
offered. Id expect Clydesdale to consider all the information V provided in addressing that 
and deal with it positively. 
I appreciate that V thinks that the rebranding of Clydesdales business has affected how it 
operates. I dont have evidence to support that and it says it wont affect the service 
provided.
I fully understand that the director has had very difficult personal issues to face and the 
financial pressures now for V. So, I know he will remain unhappy when I say that I wont be 
requiring Clydesdale to take any further action on this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman