DRN-3555734
The complaint
Mr T has complained about QIC Europe Ltds decision to decline a storm damage claim he 
made under his home and buildings insurance policy.
All reference to QIC in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr T made a claim to his insurer QIC following a named storm. The flat roof to his home and 
a fence was damaged. 
QIC instructed a Surveyor to inspect the damage. The Surveyor recommended QIC decline 
the claim due to wear and tear  which was excluded from cover under the policy. He said a 
well maintained roof wouldnt have de-bonded and lifted - even in storm conditions. He said 
other similar roofs in the area would have shown signs of damage but they didnt. 
Mr T complained to QIC but it didnt change its decision. So Mr T asked us to look at his 
complaint. 
Our Investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He didnt find QIC had 
reasonably shown that it had fairly applied the exclusion of wear and tear, based on the 
Surveyors findings. 
The Investigator recommended QIC meet Mr Ts claim in full. If Mr T had paid for repairs, he 
recommended QIC reimburse Mr T for the costs of the repairs with interest at a rate of 8% 
simple interest a year. 
Mr T accepted the Investigators view. 
QIC didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. It says it is reasonable to take into 
consideration the condition of other roofs in the area. The fact that other roofs in the area 
were not damaged (to the same extent) evidently shows Mr Ts roof was in a bad condition. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers provide cover for specific sudden unforeseen events such as storm, flood or fire. It 
isnt unusual for insurers to exclude cover for damage caused by non-insured perils such as 
wear and tear or a gradual decline in materials. 
As QIC declined Mr Ts claim by applying the wear and tear exclusion, Ive looked at 
whether it reached this decision reasonably.
When we look at storm damage claims, we ask three questions. These are:
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
All parties agree that storm conditions occurred at the time of the event. Having checked 
local weather data, this shows that winds peaked at 74 mph. This is higher than the wind 
gust peak QIC noted at 56 mph. I mention this as this demonstrates that in the nearby area 
winds were stronger. 
I think the answer to the first two questions is yes as storm conditions occurred and the 
damage to Mr Ts roof and fence is consistent with damage a storm typically causes. 
The issue that is in dispute is whether storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. 
In order for QIC to be able to show that its decision was reasonable, it needs to show that it 
fairly applied the wear and tear exclusion.
QIC relied on the opinion of a Surveyor who attended Mr Ts home to inspect the damage. 
Key comments from their findings were:
We explained that we would not expect prevalent winds (even storm force winds) to 
have caused the felted roof to de-bond or to result in its detachment if the felted roof 
had been in good, well maintained condition and given the lack of damage to 
numerous felted roofs in the immediate vicinity this element of the claim was 
repudiated.
Im unable to see any photos were taken by or provided by the Surveyor to support his 
findings. Photos provided by Mr T show the damaged flat roof debris on the front garden and 
damage to a fence. Mr T says as QIC rejected his claim for the roof damage, it didnt 
consider his claim for the fence damage which he says was also caused by the storm. 
Having looked at the photos provided by Mr T, Im satisfied that the storm caused the 
damage to his fence and this is covered under Mr Ts policy with QIC. The policy says:
Storm
We will cover loss of damage caused by storm.
We dont cover:
b. loss or damage to drives, patios, footpaths, terraces, gates, fences and hedges 
unless your home has been damaged at the same time and by the same cause.
I dont think its enough to say that generally if the roof was in a good, well maintained 
condition it couldnt have been damaged by storm conditions without any supporting 
evidence by way of photos to demonstrate and support the Surveyors opinion. And I dont 
think its a strong enough argument to assume that other roofs in the area werent damaged 
as a reason to decline the claim. In any event, Mr T says several roofs in the area were 
damaged. 
So I dont think QIC has shown that its decision to rely on the exclusion of wear and tear 
has been fairly applied. This means Im upholding Mr Ts complaint in line with the 
Investigators recommendations which Ive set out below.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd to do the following:Settle Mr Ts claim for storm damage to his home and fence. 
If Mr T has already paid for these repairs, subject to reasonable proof, QIC 
should reimburse Mr T minus any applicable excess. QIC Europe Ltd should add 
interest at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date Mr T made payment 
to the date QIC reimburses him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman