DRN-3043512
The complaint
Mr S has complained about advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portafina) to transfer a defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) he held with his 
former employer to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). The funds within the SIPP 
were then used to invest in several unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS).
Mr S appears to hold a number of wraps with the same SIPP provider and has been advised 
to transfer more than one OPS to the SIPP. This complaint only relates to the advice Mr S 
received in 2014/15 to transfer his OPS from his former employer (M).
What happened
Mr S was introduced to Portafina in 2014 after hed been in contact with another business, 
from here on referred to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed representative 
(AR) of a regulated business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority to provide investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were permitted to provide 
pension transfer advice. 
Following several conversations with Mr S, Portafina produced a suitability report setting out 
its advice. In summary the report said: 
Mr Ss circumstances were:
- He was 53 years old, married and employed with an income of £30,800
- He owned his own home, with an outstanding mortgage of £40,000
- He was in good health with an intended retirement age of 65 
- He had cash savings of £800 and no investments 
- He had other pension plans, larger than the OPS being transferred, but these 
were not being looked at
Regarding Mr Ss OPS:
- His preserved OPS was projected to pay an income of £1,432 from age 65
- The scheme offered a spouses benefit of 55% of the pension on death 
- The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) was £16,715
Mr Ss Main Stated Objectives were:
 
- Lifetime Hurdle Rate is acceptable
- Projected future returns are acceptable
- Willing to take more risk
- Does not want an escalating annuity
- Death Benefits
- Future drawdown (TFC at age 55/draw income)
It was noted under Your Key Financial Objectives that enhanced death benefits 
were a significant priority for Mr S and it was important for him to maximise his death 
benefits
Mr Ss risk profile suggested he was a Moderately Adventurous investor. Based on 
this risk classification, Portafina estimated a personal pension would grow at a rate of 
6.445%, not including advice and plan charges
The required growth rate (critical yield) needed for the SIPP to match the benefits 
Mr S was entitled to through his OPS was 10.7%. But if Mr S used income drawdown 
to access benefits, instead of purchasing an annuity, then over his lifetime the 
investment return needed to match his OPS was 5.82% per year 
Mr S had two other pension plans, which were not included in the advice from 
Portafina. Information from the SIPP provider shows that these were a personal 
pension and an occupational scheme. Although no advice was provided by Portafina 
in relation to either of these plans, the personal pension was paid into the SIPP at the 
same time the transfer of the OPS was being recommended
Although Portafina wasnt providing advice regarding where Mr Ss fund would be 
invested after a transfer  this would be given by Firm C  Portafina set out its fund 
recommendations suggesting that, due to his risk profile, Mr S invest in the following 
assets:
Cash 10%
Equities 70%
Other Fixed Interest   5%
Secured Structured Bonds 15%
Portafina explained that secured bonds werent regulated collective investments and could 
only be recommended by authorised and regulated independent financial advisers (IFAs) 
such as itself. It said that while secured bonds werent covered by the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS), its recommendations relating to them were. It added that 
secured bonds werent unstable and therefore reduced the overall volatility of Mr Ss 
portfolio.
Having considered all the information, Portafina recommended that Mr S transfer his OPS to 
a SIPP. Some of the reasons given for this were;
- A suitable model portfolio for Mr S could achieve targeted returns of 6.445% 
before initial and ongoing advice charges, and plan charges 
- Based on the growth rate required as a result of Mr S taking benefits via income 
drawdown, it believed a transfer was likely to increase the overall pension and tax 
free cash benefits available to him
- Transferring would give Mr S ownership and control over his retirement fund
- If Mr S died in retirement, his spouse could take a pension income equivalent to 
his current scheme via drawdown, as opposed to the 55% widows pension 
provided by his OPS
- The potential for an enhanced annuity. Although he had no health issues at 
present it was noted that this was an important consideration for Mr S
- The transfer would allow him to draw 25% of the fund as tax free cash from age 
55
- Flexibility to draw an income earlier or later than his OPS retirement date
Mr Ss SIPP was established in late 2014 and shortly afterwards a personal pension plan 
was transferred into it. In April 2015, following Portafinas advice, Mr S set up another wrap 
(wrap no. ****108) with the same SIPP provider. The increased OPS CETV of £22,522.83 
was transferred to Mr Ss SIPP. The funds were then invested by Firm C in various regulated 
funds. These were cashed in by Firm C for a value of £19,576.56 before being re-invested 
within another wrap with the same SIPP provider. The following investments were made:UCIS
Brisa Investments  £1,100
Biomass Investments  £1,100 
UK Strategic Residential  £1,100
Lakeview UK Holdings  £1,100
Motion Picture Global  £1,100 
Regulated investments
Marlborough ETF Global  £3,727.05
VT iFunds Absolute Return Orange  £4,658.52 
VT iFunds Absolute Return Indigo  £2,795.59
The non-UCIS funds have been sold and reinvested in other standard investments multiple 
times within the SIPP. The UCIS funds had not been sold as at the date of the last statement 
we hold.
In October 2018, Mr S complained to Portafina about the advice he received to transfer. He 
said the advice was negligent and unsuitable for someone with no investment experience, a 
medium attitude to risk and low capacity for loss. He also said that Portafina couldnt have 
made a suitable recommendation without considering the underlying investments.
Mr S said his moderately adventurous ATR did not reflect his circumstances when he had no 
investment experience, couldnt afford to lose the pension income, which was one of his 
main sources of retirement income. And he didnt have any disposable income.
Portafina rejected Mr Ss complaint, stating that any grievances relating to the underlying 
investment were the responsibility of Firm C. Mr Ss main objective was to release tax-free 
cash at 55. He also wanted the option of varying the amount of pension he could take each 
year and understood the guarantees he was giving up. This was not his main pension 
provision, which gave him a greater capacity for loss. The hurdle rate of 5.82% was 
achievable as Portafinas model portfolio, based on his attitude to risk, showed an assumed 
growth rate of 6.445%.
Following this, Mr S contacted this service in March 2019. An investigator considered the 
matter and concluded that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Portafinas 
advice was suitable. In summary the investigator said:
Based on rates published by the FCA, a reasonable growth rate to retirement was 
5.3%. The critical yield of 10.7% was significantly higher than this, so the opportunity 
to improve on the benefits Mr S had was limited
Portafina said a growth rate of 6.445% could be expected, but the SIPP illustration 
showed that a high growth rate was 5.37%
The hurdle rate of 5.82% was based on Mr S taking drawdown income. The critical 
yield should have been used to illustrate the cost of purchasing the same benefits 
being given up and this was significantly higher than what he was likely to achieve
Mr S didnt have a moderately adventurous attitude to risk, as he had no investment 
experience
Mr S was very likely to be worse off by transferring his benefits
Portafina should have considered the underlying investments as part of their 
recommendation
Portafina disagreed with the investigators findings and in summary said:Mr Ss objectives were to take control of his pension, improve death benefits and the 
flexibility of the plan generally
It had considered Mr Ss other pensions, which were much larger
Its model portfolio had projected a return of 6.445%, based on Mr Ss own risk 
classification
It had used the hurdle rate as a more accurate means of measuring the ceding 
scheme benefits as this was more appropriate to Mr Ss situation
As Mr S would use drawdown, the investment timeframe was always in excess of 12 
years and could be expected to be thirty years, which meant he could accept a 
higher level of risk
It should not be held responsible for the performance of the investments, as these 
were recommended by Firm C
Prior to Portafina agreeing to accept referrals from Firm C, it conducted due diligence 
checks on Firm C and Firm S, which included requesting details from Firm C of the 
likely investment strategy it would deploy for clients such as Mr S. 
In considering the transfer, Portafina considered what it believed would be the likely 
investment strategy Firm C would use post transfer.  Portafina set this out in the 
suitability  report  as its planning  basis:  Cash  10%,  Equities  70%,  Secured  Bonds  
15%,  Other  Fixed  Interest  5%. This was Portafinas  understanding  of the likely  
asset  allocation  that Firm C was to recommend  to a client  such  as Mr S, being  an 
asset-allocation  focused  on liquid  market-listed  securities  that it understood  
would  be achieved  through  authorised  collective  investment  schemes  and 
approved  securities  e.g. on the Official  List maintained  by FCA [Part  VI, FSMA].
Mr S has recourse  to the FSCS  regarding  Firm C
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Im upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Portafina advised Mr S to transfer his OPS to a SIPP but says it didnt provide any 
recommendation regarding the investments held within the SIPP as Firm C was meant to 
provide this. Although the intention was for another regulated firm to advise on and arrange 
Mr Ss underlying SIPP investments, I dont think that meant Portafinas responsibilities 
ended once the SIPP was set up, the funds transferred, and the money then made available 
for investment. I believe that as Mr Ss financial adviser, Portafina still had a duty to ensure 
the overall transaction was suitable, notwithstanding that another regulated firm was going to 
be involved. 
Suitable advice couldnt, in my view, be given without thinking about the intended 
investment. Portafina appeared to recognise this in its suitability report when, despite saying 
Firm C would provide specific investment advice, it set out recommendations for the fund 
asset classes Mr S should invest in and to what extent. 
The recommendations made up a model portfolio for a moderately adventurous investor, 
which Portafina satisfied itself Mr S was. And its partly on the basis that Mr S invested in line 
with a suitable model portfolio, and achieved the relevant targeted returns, that Portafina 
concluded transferring could increase his overall pension benefits and therefore be 
worthwhile.The regulators position
Having thought carefully about what happened here, I dont think Portafinas advice to 
transfer was suitable. And I dont think it was right to try to limit its advice in the way it sought 
to. At the time of the advice the regulator had made its view clear that it considered in order 
to suitably advise on pension transfers, a firm needed to consider the suitability of the 
underlying investments to be held in the new arrangement. 
The regulators position was evident in its 2013 alert where it said:
Financial advisers () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have to consider 
the unregulated investment as part of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect. 
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating () If you give 
regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated items, you 
cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
A further alert from the regulator in 2014 stated: 
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will () transfer 
() to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying 
investment must form part of the advice given to the customer. If the underlying investment 
is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
Portafina appears to have been under the impression that, as it told Mr S it wasnt providing 
any advice on the underlying investments, this enabled it to provide advice on a restricted 
basis. But this wasnt right. It couldnt separate out the two elements. Its advice on the 
suitability of the transfer had to include the suitability of the underlying investments. I dont 
think there was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position on the matter.
Both alerts specifically referred to the regulators overarching Principles for Businesses 
(PRIN) and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which Portafina was subject to. And with 
reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts said a firm would fall short of its obligations under 
these precepts if it didnt familiarise itself with the intended investment strategy and that it 
wouldnt be able to recommend transferring to a SIPP, without doing so.
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portafina also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to 
Mr S under the regulatory system. So, telling Mr S it wasnt providing advice on the 
investments didnt absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing was 
suitable  again, this had to include consideration of how Mr Ss funds would be invested.
COBS 9.2 required Portafina to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was 
suitable for Mr S. To achieve this, COBS 9.2.2R said Portafina had to obtain enough information from Mr S to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear 
the related investment risks consistent with these objectives and that he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction. COBS 9.2.2R 
included the following wording () The information regarding the investment objectives of a 
client must include, where relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to 
hold the investment, his preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes 
of the investment.
So as part of the fact-finding process Portafina had to understand Mr Ss objectives  one of 
which was being willing to take more risks  and the related risks. It wasnt free to ignore 
how Mr Ss funds were going to be invested irrespective of Firm Cs involvement. I consider 
the underlying investments in the SIPP to be inextricably linked to the risks relating to the 
SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a transfer without knowing what Mr S would 
invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind seem reasonably possible.
Like COBS, PRIN formed part of the regulatory framework that existed at the time of 
Portafinas advice and had to be complied with. Principles 1 (conducting business with 
integrity); 2 (exercising due skill, care and diligence); 6 (having regard for customers 
interests and treating them fairly); 7 (communicating information in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way) and 9 (ensuring the suitability of advice for a customer entitled to rely on the 
firms judgement) are of particular relevance to this case. In addition to what Ive outlined 
above, Ive considered Portafinas advice with these in mind. 
Portafina doesnt consider itself responsible for any advice regarding the underlying assets 
in the SIPP because it says this was being provided by Firm C. I accept that as a result of its 
AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give suitable advice. However, I dont 
agree that this negated Portafinas duty to do the same. As Mr Ss appointed financial 
adviser, it had a significant responsibility to provide suitable advice and to act in Mr Ss best 
interests. And as Ive said, this had to include an awareness of where Mr Ss funds would be 
invested. 
I recognise that the FCA allows for two advisers to work together to provide suitable advice
to their mutual client. However, the alerts make it clear that a firm that is asked to advise on
a pension transfer needs to be aware of the intended investments before it advises on the
transfer, in order to provide suitable advice. So, it shouldve requested this information from
Firm C before providing advice. And, as confirmed in the 2014 alert, if it didnt fully
understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held within a SIPP, then it
should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all. So, in the absence of
Portafina knowing the investment strategy Firm C intended for Mr S, it couldnt provide him
with suitable advice to transfer his OPS.
Portafina says it based its advice on what it believed would be the likely investment strategy 
Firm C would use post transfer.  But I havent seen anything to suggest that Portafina, at any 
point, checked with Firm C what risk category it considered Mr S to fall under. Nor did it 
check that its understanding of the likely investments was correct. I believe it should have, 
given the unavoidable connection this had to the transfer it was proposing. 
As part of its duty of care to Mr S, I consider that Portafina shouldve asked Firm C for the 
details of the portfolio intended for Mr S and the proposed investment, making an 
assumption of what it thought Firm C would likely recommend wasnt in my view sufficient.  
Portafina couldnt reasonably assess the suitability of the transfer it was recommending 
without knowing Firms Cs intentions.  
Im also conscious that Mr Ss SIPP was established prior to the OPS funds being 
transferred and the funds from another personal pension he held were invested several months before his CETV was received. Statements provided by Mr S show that a significant 
share of his personal pension fund was invested in UCIS funds in January 2015. This was 
after Portafinas report had been issued but was still almost three months before the OPS 
was transferred. So there was ample time for Portafina to check with Firm C to see if it 
intended to invest Mr Ss CETV in the same way as his other pension funds. 
Portafina may say that it wouldnt have been aware that Firm C has invested Mr Ss personal 
pension funds in this way. But had it taken full details of Mr Ss other pension plans during its 
fact finding exercise - as it ought to have done to fully review whether the OPS transfer was 
suitable  I think its likely that this information would have come to light. Or at the very least 
Mr S may have explained that he had already transferred a personal pension plan to a SIPP. 
Portafina could then have requested further details from Firm C regarding this so it could 
adequately consider Mr Ss overall circumstances. Simply relying on Mr Ss answer that the 
other pension plans he held were larger, wasnt enough for Portafina to have assessed his 
overall circumstances and what his plans would provide in retirement. Portafina needed to 
do this in order to assess the suitability of the transfer and to determine whether Mr S would 
be relying on the OPS in retirement.    
After the OPS was transferred to the SIPP, Mr Ss funds were initially invested in regulated 
funds, with the majority being placed in the Dimensional World Equity Fund. The available 
data for this fund shows that it primarily invests in shares of companies with exposure to 
developed and/or emerging markets; using a core strategy involving a greater allocation to 
shares of smaller sized and valued companies. In my view, smaller companies are generally 
more vulnerable than larger companies to adverse market conditions, with their shares also 
sometimes being more difficult to sell. The fund information highlights the additional risks 
associated with the fund, such as, currency and market risks. And I think its reasonable to 
believe there could also be issuer specific, economic or political risks presented by 
investments in emerging markets. With reference to risks, Dimensional currently gives its 
World Equity fund a risk and reward profile rating of 6 on a scale of 1 to 7. 
I dont think Mr S was the type of investor this Dimensional fund appeared to be geared 
towards. Although Mr Ss objective may have been to secure a higher-level of investment 
performance, Im not persuaded he wouldve wanted, or had the capacity to expose his 
capital to the level of risk I believe was associated with this fund. I think it was clear Mr S 
wasnt the moderately adventurous investor Portafina said he was. Ive further explained my 
findings regarding Mr Ss risk profile later in the decision. 
Although initially the OPS funds were invested in regulated funds  albeit unsuitable for 
Mr Ss risk profile - within a few months, Firm C had moved the funds to a new wrap and 
invested a significant proportion in UCIS. I dont think UCIS was suitable for Mr S at all, let 
alone in the proportion invested. Theres nothing to indicate Mr S had the requisite 
knowledge or experience to accept or understand the risks associated with these types of 
investments. And, it is worth noting that the proportion of Mr Ss personal pension which was 
allocated to UCIS was even higher than the OPS funds, so there was no rebalancing of risk 
within the portfolio.
Ive also thought about the model portfolio Portafina set out in Mr Ss suitability report and 
upon which it based its transfer advice. But I dont agree it was suitable for Mr Ss attitude to 
risk in any event. I say this because the model portfolio suggested that 15% of the pension 
fund should be invested in secure structured bonds. These are described in the suitability 
report as asset back debt securities that are issued for a fix term. The report goes on to 
explain that these are not covered by the FSCS. And that there are credit risks - due to the 
possibility of the company borrowing the money going into default - and liquidity risks. In my 
view, this puts them at the higher end of the risk spectrum and would generally mean that 
theyre unsuitable for an inexperienced investor, with a fairly modest pension fund. So, Im not satisfied that a portfolio that wouldve invested 15% of Mr Ss pension fund in 
unregulated and potentially illiquid funds, wouldve been suitable for a client in Mr Ss 
position in any event. 
Portafina needed to do more to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the 
expected investment proposition that Firm C intended for Mr S. It needed at the very 
least, to ask Firm C for an outline of that proposition. It appears that Portafina failed to do 
that and as a result, a significant part of Mr Ss pension fund was invested in high risk, 
illiquid funds. I would expect Firm C to have given a clear and honest outline of Mr Ss 
investment proposition when asked to do so by Portafina. On receipt of that, I would 
further expect Portafina to have told Mr S that it couldnt recommend the transfer.
I accept, of course, that there is a possibility that Firm C may not have been entirely 
forthcoming to Portafina about its plans to spread a significant portion of Mr Ss portfolio over 
high risk and unregulated investments. Had Portafina requested this information and it had 
been advised that Firm C intended to invest Mr S in these unsuitable funds, then it couldve 
questioned this. And in the event that Portafina had been misled by Firm C as to the 
proposed investments, then its likely Mr S wouldve realised that the investments Firm C 
went on to arrange differed to those Portafina had based its suitability assessment on. And 
Mr S couldve taken action accordingly. 
Portafina says that its advisers carried out extensive due diligence on Firm C, including 
background checks on the company directors, accounts and information about previous 
complaints. It hasnt provided us with evidence of the due diligence it carried out on Firm C 
in connection with this complaint. But even if Portafina had carried the general due diligence 
checks it has mentioned, I dont think that negated the need to check the specific investment 
Firm C envisaged for Mr S. 
I also havent seen any evidence that further checks were made by Portafina to satisfy itself 
that the pension transfer advice it was giving to clients was aligned with the investment 
advice they were receiving from Firm C. The need to do so was a necessary part of the 
suitability assessment carried out by Portafina for individual clients. But I think it was also a 
reasonable due diligence requirement brought about by the ongoing relationship it had with 
Firm C. This wouldve highlighted any patterns of unsuitable or unaligned advice, which 
could be identified and addressed.
In any event, as was clearly set out in the regulators alerts in both 2013 and 2014, Portafina 
couldnt restrict its advice merely to the transfer; it had to consider the proposed investments 
for Mr S, which it didnt do. Overall, I think Portafina needed to satisfy itself that its 
recommendation was based on the investment proposition that Firm C intended for Mr S. It 
shouldve asked Firm C for the specifics of this. Had it done so, and Firm C had given it a 
clear framework of the proposition, then I wouldve expected Portafina to have advised Mr S 
that it couldnt recommend he transfer away from his OPS in those circumstances. If 
Portafina had warned Mr S against investing in line with Firm Cs proposal, I think he 
wouldve listened to it and not gone ahead with the transfer. 
In my view, the fact that Portafina didnt take sufficient steps to consider the investment 
proposal for Mr S when assessing the suitability of the proposed transfer meant that it 
couldnt reasonably conclude the course of action it recommended as a solution to Mr Ss 
needs was being made on a sound basis. And as a result of these shortcomings, it seems to 
me that Firm C was in effect given the freedom and opportunity to do as it wished with how 
Mr Ss SIPP was invested. 
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont think the suitability of Portafinas advice turns 
solely on where Mr Ss funds were invested. Portafinas recommendation that Mr S transfer to a SIPP in the first place is an important consideration. And were it not for the transfer and 
Portafinas incomplete and, in my view, flawed advice regarding this, Im not persuaded Mr S 
wouldve ultimately gone on to invest as he did.
The advice to transfer 
OPS typically have significant benefits and guarantees. Giving up the benefits and 
guarantees available under an OPS and subjecting future pension income to the risks 
associated with unpredictable investment returns should only be done where it can be 
shown that it was clearly in the best interests of the consumer. The COBS guidance 
(COBS19.1.6G) at the time of the advice, stated:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm 
should start by assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should 
only then consider a transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
Given what the regulator says, my starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. 
Therell need to be good reasons why a transfer will be in the consumers best interests. And 
generally, a transfer will only be in the consumers best interests if theres a reasonable 
prospect that the new arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer will 
also need to be suitable, taking into account the individuals particular circumstances.
At the time of Portafinas advice Mr S was 53 years old, employed and in good health. He 
was a standard retail investor with twelve years until he intended to retire. He had other 
much larger pension plans, but as far as I can see, Portafina did not make any attempt to 
establish the actual value of any of these plans, or the benefits they offered. Mr S had 
minimal savings and no investments and although he was a home owner, he had an 
outstanding amount on his mortgage.
Transferring his OPS meant that Mr S would be losing his guarantees and instead relying on 
investment performance from a new scheme. I dont think his situation lent itself to taking 
such risks. I think it shouldve been clear that while Mr S may have been open to taking 
some risk, he wasnt able to take a significant amount. Mr S has stated that he had a 
medium attitude to risk (ATR) and a low capacity for loss. Based on the information from the 
point of advice, I am inclined to agree with this.
Based on a risk profile Mr S completed, Portafina said it believed he had a moderately 
adventurous ATR and that, as he would be taking income as drawdown, his investment 
horizon was thirty years, which gave him the ability to accept a higher level of risk. Portafina 
have argued that his risk-profile was derived from the answers he gave to a third-party 
profiling tool. This took the form of a series of statements with which the consumer could 
agree or disagree. It is a useful tool in establishing attitude to risk, but is not the only 
consideration and certainly should not override all the other information available. Portafina 
had a duty to query any results which did not tally with the known facts for Mr S.
Portafina defined a moderately adventurous investor as fairly experienced investors, who 
have used a range of investment products and moderate to high levels of financial 
knowledge. They are willing to take risks with a substantial portion of their available assets, 
will usually take gambles where they see the potential rewards as being attractive and 
accept that occasional poor outcomes are a necessary part of long term investment.I do not believe that it is an accurate summary of Mr Ss circumstances and attitude to risk. 
For instance, in the section of the report Tolerance and capacity for Loss, it was recorded 
that Mr S had the capacity to afford to lose 10% of his fund before it started to affect his 
standard of living. With regard to his tolerance of risk, he was prepared to accept  some 
losses in the short term to achieve longer term gains and indicated that losses over 10% 
would make you feel uncomfortable.
I do not believe that an investor with the tolerance and capacity to only be able to accept 
losses of 10% of his fund can reasonably be described as having a moderately adventurous 
attitude to risk. Mr S had no investment experience and minimal savings. He had limited 
means of replacing any losses to capital. He did have other pension provision, but the 
business has not demonstrated that they made any assessment of the level of income these 
arrangements could provide, besides noting they were larger than his OPS. This is 
particularly relevant when his personal pension was being/had been moved to the same 
SIPP by Firm C and would be invested in the same way, with the same exposure to risk. Any 
losses experienced by his transferred OPS would be mirrored by the performance of his 
former personal pension.
If, as noted in the report, Mr S intended to access his TFC from age 55 , i.e. within two 
years, and take drawdown before his scheme retirement age of 65, the period he had to 
recoup any losses to capital was far shorter than the thirty year investment time horizon set 
out and did not allow him to take on additional levels of risk.
Given these factors, I do not believe that Mr S was in a position to be able to expose his 
OPS benefits to anything other than a low level of risk in the short time before they were due 
to become payable.
Portafina also didnt establish what Mr Ss future liabilities and income requirements were 
likely to be in retirement. Nor did it seek to work out what level of income his other pensions 
were projected to provide. So Portafina couldnt say with confidence that transferring was 
necessary to meet his future income needs or to what extent he was likely to be dependent 
on his OPS in retirement. 
An important part of assessing the viability of an OPS transfer, is a careful analysis of the 
investment returns required from any investments in the receiving scheme, to match (let 
alone exceed) the benefits that are being given up by transferring out of the OPS. And that 
needs to be done in conjunction with other important considerations, including the investors 
ATR, financial circumstances and objectives.
Under COBS 19.1.2, the regulator required a business arranging a pension transfer to:
1. compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme or 
stakeholder pension scheme, before it advises a retail client to transfer out of a 
defined benefits pension scheme;
2. ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the retail client to be 
able to make an informed decision;
3. give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the client's attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firms advice, no later than when the key features 
document is provided; and
4. take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firm's comparison 
and its advice.
COBS 19.1.3 goes on to say that in particular the comparison should:1. take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
2. have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and the 
effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed scheme;
3. explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would have 
to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up; and
4. be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns of 
the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested.
Portafinas advice was given at a time when there were no industry standard projection rates 
to assess the likelihood of the critical yield being achieved. But at the time the regulators 
assumed future growth rates for personal pension illustrations were 2% (low); 5% 
(intermediate); and 8% (high). Whilst advisers weren't required to refer to these rates when 
giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth 
rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this 
case.
In terms of the investment risk Mr S would be taking on by transferring, Portafina produced a 
Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report. This showed the critical yield required to match 
benefits from the OPS was 10.7%. So the transfer value needed to consistently grow at a 
rate of around 10.7% each year for him not to be financially worse off by transferring. This 
was high and exceeded the highest maximum projected growth rate at the time. But if the 
transfer was only going to match the benefits given up thered be little point in transferring  
there needed to be a reasonable prospect the consumer would be better off, so I think a 
return in excess of 11% would be required in order to justify the transfer and Im not satisfied 
that was a reasonable expectation.
Portafina based its recommendation on the lifetime hurdle rate of 5.82% instead of the 
critical yield, saying that Mr S required the flexibility of releasing his funds earlier than the 
scheme retirement age and preferred the drawdown model in retirement. Im mindful that 
Portafinas hurdle rate calculation doesnt appear to have taken account of all the charges 
that would apply. As a result, I think the rate of 5.82% may be understated.  And I dont 
agree with Portafinas position here, I think it tends to underplay the importance of the critical 
yield and overstates the significance of the hurdle rate. This level of growth is higher than the 
regulators low and intermediate rates of 2% and 5% and is therefore greater than the level 
of growth Mr S could expect to achieve without taking on more risk than he had the tolerance 
or capacity to accept.
Portafina have stated that their model portfolio projected a growth rate of 6.445%, but this 
was before initial and on-going advice charges and plan charges were taken into account. 
The Annual Management Charge (AMC) for the SIPP was recorded as 0.5% on the report 
and although Firm Cs AMC was not listed, similar cases involving the same firm have 
confirmed it was also 0.5%. With this in mind, the model portfolio growth rate would be 
closer to 5.5% and therefore lower than the hurdle rate. This is close to the high growth rate 
of 5.37% which the SIPP provider quoted in their own illustration of 12 November 2014, 
which did take account of their charges, so I believe it is fair. So even if Firm C had invested 
in line with Portafinas model, Mr S was still likely to be worse off as a result of transferring. 
I cant see that there was any explanation as to why Mr S wanted or needed to take his 
benefits flexibly in retirement. Likewise, there was no discussion about why the TFC was 
needed at age 55. There is little doubt that most people would find the idea of getting tax 
free cash earlier in life appealing, but this should not be at the expense of secure and 
indexing long term retirement income. Mr S was 53 at the time and would not have been able to access his pension for another two 
years. There was no need for him to transfer at that point and expose his funds to short term 
investment risk instead of waiting until age 55. Given that no rationale was provided to say 
what he wanted the TFC for, the obvious conclusion would be that Mr S should have left his 
pension with his OPS until he actually needed the cash, rather than expose it to the risk of 
capital loss.
Furthermore, I do not believe that there was a genuine desire by Mr S to take his cash at 
age 55 and this was no more than a vague sentiment. This is supported by the SIPP 
statements provided which show that Mr S did not take any TFC from his pension at age 55 
and in fact had not made any withdrawals at all (via drawdown or TFC) by the time he 
complained to the service. 
Portafina referred to Mr Ss requirements regarding death benefits as one of the reasons for 
its recommendation that he transfer. Its suitability report recorded that enhanced death 
benefits were a significant priority for him as he wished to provide his wife with the best 
possible widows pension in the event he predeceased her in retirement and that it was 
important to maximise his death benefits. 
While I can appreciate Mr S wanted to pass on as much money as possible to his spouse at 
death, Im conscious that the main purpose for a pension is to provide an income in 
retirement. Other considerations, like death benefits, are secondary to that, particularly 
where, as here, there was nothing to suggest Mr S was in ill health, such that it wasnt 
expected that his pension fund would need to support him for a long time. 
While there is no doubt that an individual would like the idea of leaving as much as possible 
to family on death, this has to be weighed against the likelihood of this happening early 
enough to be a significant benefit, along with the actual benefits being given up. The level of 
additional death benefit provided by transferring was minimal in the short to medium term 
and, based on normal life expectancy, less than his scheme provided over the long term.
Transferring Mr Ss benefits provided a CETV of £16,715. By comparison, the TVAS shows 
that if Mr S stayed with his OPS hed be entitled to a pension of £1,432 per year. If he took 
TFC of £6,360, his OPS was projected to pay an income of £954 a year. If Mr S died before 
retirement, the OPS provided a spouses pension of 55% of this amount, i.e. 55% of £1,432. 
However, the TVAS also showed that if death occurred after retirement, the scheme would 
also pay a guaranteed income for the first five years, before the spouses pension was 
taken. So, provided he lived to age 65, the OPS would pay a minimum of £11,130 (TFC + 5 
x £954) before any spouses pension became payable. As the spouses pension would be 
approximately £790 before any indexing was included, it would not take very long before the 
total paid out by the OPS exceeded the CETV, both as an absolute amount and in real 
terms.
This guaranteed minimum payment term was not recorded in the report given to Mr S and I 
can only conclude that he was therefore not fully aware of the comparative benefits of 
remaining with his OPS, as opposed to transferring.Although I appreciate retirement planning may have regard for an individuals general 
preferences, its primary focus should be a consumers personal circumstances with a view to 
putting them in the best possible position at retirement, with the appropriate income 
provision in place long-term. So, it wasnt Portafinas role to simply justify and make the 
transfer happen because it met Mr Ss objective of enabling flexibility, releasing cash and 
providing a notionally higher death benefit. It had a responsibility to challenge these 
objectives and not accept them at face value. I cant see that it did this and I dont think the 
consumer was provided with a clear picture of the extent of what was available under his 
OPS, compared to the perceived benefit of transferring. So overall, Im not satisfied 
Portafinas reasons for the transfer, which in my view werent compelling, were an 
appropriate basis for its recommendation.
Regarding the risks associated with its recommendation, I do accept that Portafina covered 
some of these. However, disclosure isnt the same as suitability and in my view Portafina 
shouldnt have gone on to recommend the transfer. 
I dont think the advice for Mr S to transfer was suitable and think it presented a level of risk 
above what he shouldve been advised to take. Accordingly, I dont think it was in his best 
interests. Although Portafina provided Mr S with information about the transfer, I dont 
believe it was as clear, comprehensive and balanced as it needed to be for him to make an 
informed decision about whether to transfer.
Under COBS 19.1.6 (3) the regulator says a firm should only consider a transfer to be 
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence that the transfer is in the 
clients best interests. Im afraid I dont think Portafina met this test in this case. I dont agree 
that making the recommendation on the basis that it met Mr Ss recorded objectives was 
enough. In my view, if Mr S had been properly informed of the benefits he was relinquishing, 
in the form of clear projections and comparisons with what might be available via income 
drawdown or an annuity purchase, I think it wouldve been clear the transfer wasnt in his 
best interests. 
Would Mr S have gone ahead with the transfer anyway?
Ive thought about whether, if hed been correctly advised by Portafina not to transfer, Mr S 
would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway. Having carefully considered all the 
circumstances in this case, I dont believe he would. Mr S went ahead with the transfer on 
the understanding that he was unlikely to be financially disadvantaged in the long term and 
was maximising the level of death benefit payable to his wife, neither of which were 
accurate. 
Had he been appropriately advised, I think its more likely that Mr S would have chosen to 
maintain his OPS. I appreciate that he was switching an existing personal pension into the 
SIPP at the same time, but the factors which apply to switching one money purchase 
scheme for another are significantly different to those which are relevant when assessing a 
defined benefits scheme and the associated loss of guarantees. Had Mr S been made fully 
aware of this, I do not believe he would have proceeded with the transfer, given how vague 
most of the objectives listed were, plus the fact that he would not be able to take any 
benefits for another two years.
As a professional adviser, which unlike Firm C was authorised to provide transfer advice, 
Portafinas recommendation wouldve carried significant weight and could, I believe, have 
dissuaded Mr S from proceeding with the transfer and subsequent investments. I accept its 
possible Mr S may still have wanted to go ahead anyway. But I think, at the very least, if 
Portafina had advised against this, that would have made him think about things. Alternatively, had Mr S proceeded against such advice, Portafina couldve discharged its 
professional responsibility to him appropriately. For example, it couldve treated him as an 
insistent client. However, theres nothing to indicate Mr S was acting against the advice hed 
been given.
Overall, I consider that the losses suffered by Mr S are as a result of the inappropriate 
advice provided by Portafina. And had it not been for this unsuitable advice, I dont believe 
he would have gone ahead with the transfer of his OPS or the subsequent unsuitable 
investments.  
Ive considered whether I should apportion only part of the responsibility for compensating 
the loss to Portafina. In the circumstances, though, I think apportioning responsibility to 
Portafina for the whole of the loss represents fair compensation. I dont accept that anything 
Firm C did was an intervening act which absolves Portafina of its responsibility for Mr Ss 
losses. 
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portafina were in a business relationship 
in which each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring about a single 
outcome for clients  pension-release advice and investment.  Because Firm C wasnt 
authorised to provide pension transfer advice, it referred Mr S to Portafina. Portafina advised 
Mr S to transfer to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for his existing pension benefits 
to be switched over. 
I acknowledge that Firm C advised Mr S to invest a significant share of his SIPP funds in 
unsuitable funds. And Ive thought about the fact that Mr Ss funds are now illiquid as a result 
of Firm Cs subsequent advice to transfer Mr Ss OPS funds to several UCIS. Portafina may 
argue that Firm C should be also be held partly responsible for Mr Ss losses as a result of 
its later advice. But I think it is fair to hold Portafina fully responsible for Mr Ss loss. 
Ultimately Portafina recommended Mr S should transfer his OPS benefits to the SIPP, 
without ensuring the subsequent investments he would go on to make, through Firm C, were 
suitable for him. So, in my view, the entirety of Mr Ss loss stems from Portafinas unsuitable 
advice to transfer away from his OPS. Portafinas understanding that it could reasonably limit 
its advice to just the transfer and the SIPP was wrong; it needed to consider the proposed 
investments too, even if Firm C was advising Mr S on the investments. It was only as a result 
of Portafinas involvement that Mr S transferred his OPS to the SIPP. Portafinas role was 
pivotal, since the eventual investments were fully reliant on the funds being transferred over 
first; if that hadnt happened, he couldnt have invested as he did.
In terms of the FSCS, I am aware that, as a fund of last resort, the FSCS wont pay out on 
claims where it is aware that another firm was involved in the transaction, and it considers 
that firm might also be responsible for a consumers losses. In Mr Ss case the FSCS has 
confirmed that as he has a complaint against Portafina its unable to consider his claim at 
this time. This means that apportionment of only part of the loss to Portafina could risk 
leaving Mr S out of pocket. 
I think its important to point out that Im not saying Portafina is wholly responsible for the 
losses simply because Firm S and Firm C are now in liquidation. My starting point as to 
causation is that Portafina gave unsuitable advice and it is responsible for the losses Mr S 
suffered in switching his OPS to the SIPP and investing as he did. That isnt, to my mind, 
wrong in law or irrational but reflects the facts of the case and my view of the fair and 
reasonable position. So, overall, I think apportioning responsibility to Portafina for the whole 
of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Portafinas unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S would 
have remained in the occupational scheme. Portafina must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the pension review methodology, as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
The FCA has announced it intends to update the inflation assumptions used in this 
guidance. This could materially affect the amount of compensation due. Portafina must 
therefore take into account any amendments to the regulators Finalised Guidance FG 17/9.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ss acceptance of the decision.
Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ss contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P).These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ss 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date
Portafina LLP receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest 
must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date 
of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes
Portafina to pay Mr S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
A copy of Portafinas calculations should be provided to Mr Ss representative.
As Ive said, my aim is to return Mr S to the position he would have been in but for the 
actions of Portafina. This is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot 
be readily sold on the open market), as its value cant be determined. That appears to be the 
case here.To calculate the compensation, Portafina should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as 
a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs and take 
ownership of the investment. If Portafina is unable or unwilling to buy the investment, it 
should give it a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP 
used in the calculations should include anything Portafina has paid into the SIPP and any 
outstanding charges yet to be applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portafina may ask Mr S to provide an undertaking to account to it for the 
net amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should 
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portafina will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portafina asks Mr S to provide an undertaking, 
payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that 
undertaking.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Portafina LLP to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman