DRN-2858023
The complaint
Mrs P is complaining that she was advised by Phoenix Life Limited to take out life and critical 
illness cover when a standalone critical illness policy may have been more suitable. Mrs P is 
represented by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
In 1987, Mrs P took out a living assurance whole of life and critical illness policy with a 
guaranteed insurability option (GIO) and sum assured of £50,000. She also took out a 
covermaster policy with a sum assured of £100,000. This provided whole of life cover only, 
and also had a GIO. Both of these were qualifying policies which meant that the premiums 
couldnt be increased in the future. Instead, the GIO allowed Mrs P to take out new policies 
at five-year intervals without the need for further medical evidence. These new policies 
would have broadly the same terms as the existing policies and would offset the impact of 
inflation by enabling Mrs P to increase her sum assured.
In 1992, Mrs P was advised to exercise both GIOs and take out an additional whole of life 
and critical illness policy (with a sum assured of £17,939) and an additional whole of life only 
policy (for £35,878).
All the policies have now lapsed.   
Mrs P approached a CMC in 2019. The CMC reviewed Mrs Ps policies and complained to 
Phoenix Life. They said Mrs P shouldnt have been advised to take up the whole of life and 
critical illness GIO option without considering standalone critical illness cover. The CMC said 
as a result Mrs P had paid for two separate life assurance policies, to her financial detriment.
In reply, Phoenix Life said that at the time the original policy was sold, critical illness cover 
was only available with life cover. And the GIO was for new policies on similar terms  so 
would need to be for whole of life with critical illness cover  they couldnt have offered 
standalone critical illness cover. They added that if Mrs P hadnt taken the GIO at the time, 
shed have lost the opportunity to take up the GIO in future.
The CMC wasnt happy with Phoenix Lifes reply so they brought the complaint to our 
service. They said the adviser hadnt told Mrs P that she was taking out two different life 
cover products or that she could instead look at taking out standalone critical illness cover. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ps complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary he said he 
thought the policy Phoenix Life recommended met Mrs Ps objectives at the time. He also 
thought Mrs P would have been aware that both new policies included life assurance. And 
he added that its likely standalone critical illness cover would have been expensive. 
The CMC remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint  so its 
come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
The crux of Mrs Ps complaint seems to be that she wasnt told that she could take out a 
standalone critical illness policy instead of exercising the GIO on the living assurance policy. 
I appreciate that standalone critical illness policies werent generally available in 1987 when 
Mrs P first took out her cover but were being sold in 1992  so its possible Mrs P wasnt 
aware that there might be other options available for her. However Ive seen no evidence 
that Mrs P wanted standalone critical illness cover, or that this was a higher priority for her 
than life assurance.
The notes from the time of the advice in 1992 are very brief. They dont say that the adviser 
discussed alternatives with Mrs P  and they dont say that he didnt. But they do state that 
Mrs Ps objectives were to make ample provision in case of [her] untimely death or critical 
illness. Im satisfied that the advice given to Mrs P (to exercise both GIOs) was suitable for 
achieving those objectives. 
Ive had a look at inflation rates for the United Kingdom from 1987 to 1992  and I can see 
that the sum assured on the two new 1992 policies was simply to take account of inflation in 
each case. So the new policies were ensuring that Mrs Ps life and critical illness cover was 
worth as much in real terms in 1992 as it had been in 1987.
I havent seen any evidence that Mrs P didnt want to extend her life assurance. And Ive 
seen no indication that Mrs P couldnt afford the policies, or that she felt she was over-
insured. If Mrs P had chosen to take a standalone policy instead of the GIO shed have lost 
any possibility of exercising the GIO again in the future  so I can understand why the 
adviser suggested taking the GIO option on both policies.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im satisfied the advice given to Mrs P was suitable for her 
objectives at the time. Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint against Phoenix Life Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman