DRN-3405854
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (Halifax) mis-sold him a fee-paying 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). 
Mr H has also complained that Halifax failed to downgrade his account to a fee-free account 
after hed asked Halifax to do so in 2018.
What happened
Halifax said that Mr H had complained too late about the sale of his URCA for our service to 
be able to consider that part of his complaint. One of our ombudsmen considered this point 
and he concluded that Mr Hs complaint about the sale of his URCA had been raised outside 
of the time limits that apply to complaints that are referred to our service. This means that 
our service is unable to consider whether the URCA was mis-sold.
One of our adjudicators then went on to assess Mr Hs complaint about his request to 
downgrade not being actioned, and he did not find in Mr Hs favour. Mr H disagreed with the 
adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
As it has already been established that our service cannot consider whether the URCA was 
mis-sold, this decision will only address Mr Hs complaint about his request to downgrade 
not being actioned.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered all the 
information that is available, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr H has explained that he asked for his URCA to be downgraded to a fee-free account 
around three years prior to his complaint being made i.e. around 2018.  Mr H thought it had 
been, but he has since discovered that it was not downgraded and that he was in fact still 
being charged the monthly fee for the URCA.
Having reviewed everything that is available, Ive not seen enough evidence to show that Mr 
H did request that his account be downgraded and that this request was not actioned by 
Halifax. Looking through the contact notes Halifax has for Mr H, I can see that requests to 
cancel specific Direct Debits and to update his address were recorded, so I think its likely 
that a request to downgrade the account wouldve also been recorded. 
Furthermore, even if its the case that Mr H did request the URCA to be downgraded and 
Halifax didnt make a note of this, in the complaint form Mr H (or a representative) explained 
that when the request was made, Halifax asked Mr H to provide a number, but he was 
unable to do so, as that number was recorded on a phone that had been lost. 
Unfortunately, its not clear what number Mr H is referring to, although there is a strong 
possibility that Halifax couldve been asking Mr H for the account number and sort code of 
the account he wanted to downgrade, or perhaps a security passcode. But in any event, 
even going by Mr Hs testimony, I cant rule out the possibility that the reason why the 
account was not downgraded around 2018 was because Mr H was not able to provide the 
necessary information Halifax needed to be able to proceed with the account downgrade.
As such, based on everything I have seen, Im not able to say that Halifax did receive a 
request to downgrade the account around 2018. And even if I thought it had received such a 
request, Ive not seen enough to say that the reason why it wasnt downgraded was because 
of something that Halifax had done wrong or that it had acted unreasonably. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman