DRN-4099236
The complaint
Mr B and Miss D complain about the service they received from Mortgage Advice Bureau 
Limited (MAB) when the applied for a mortgage to buy their first home. They said the 
advice they got was unsuitable, and they want back all the money they paid.
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr B and Miss D, as the mortgage application was in 
both their names, our dealings have been with Miss D. So Ill mainly refer to her in this 
decision. 
Miss D said she and Mr B applied for a mortgage through MAB. They were advised to 
choose a particular lender, and they also started to pay for the legal work on the house they 
wanted. But they said they were turned down for lending. Miss D said shed found out MAB 
applied for this mortgage three times. Shed only known about the first application, then the 
third one, made on the basis of their revised salaries. 
Miss D said some of the details on the application to this lender were wrong, and they 
thought that could be why they were declined. 
Miss D said they were then told to apply to other lenders, but the application couldnt be 
submitted to the second lender. They failed the credit score. MAB made a third application 
for them, but they never heard anything about this  their broker went on holiday, and no one 
was taking care of the application while he was away. 
Miss D said in this time mortgage rates had gone up, and theyd had to pull out of the 
purchase of their home. She thought the advice they had been given was wrong. 
Miss D said theyd lost the home they wanted to buy, but also lost out with money they paid. 
They just wanted back what this had cost them, £195 for the fee theyd paid to B and 
£437.70 for their solicitors fees. 
MAB didnt uphold their complaint. It said theyd received a decision in principle from the first 
lender MAB selected, but thats only an indication of what a mortgage lender might be 
prepared to lend. It is not a formal offer, which is only done after a full application has been 
assessed by the lender. 
After Miss D and Mr B found a house, MAB completed their application, and that triggered 
the payment of MABs £195 fee. But then this lender said it wasnt prepared to lend to them. 
MAB said it didnt then make a new application to this lender without telling Miss D and Mr B. 
What it did was appeal that decision. But the lender wouldnt change its mind. The broker 
then discussed this with Miss D and Mr B, and worked out what changes they could make to 
try to get the lending approved. He then made a revised appeal with some amendments, but 
without success. 
MAB said it had a positive indication from a second lender, but it had explained why the 
second lender wouldnt then consider their full application. And MAB had then submitted a 
third application, but this third lender would only offer less than they wanted. Mr B and Miss 
D had since decided to withdraw from the purchase.
MAB didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that Mr B and Miss D had agreed to pay 
MABs fee once an application was done. It told our service that it had waived its fee for their 
second and third applications, but it wouldnt refund what they had paid. 
MAB also denied providing poor advice. It showed us the fact find it carried out with Mr B 
and Miss D, which explained that theyd chosen a very long term for their mortgage, to keep 
costs down. They wanted to be able to maintain some of their lifestyle options, like meals 
out, and also still have disposable income for hobbies. They also preferred not to use up all 
of their savings for a deposit, and were receiving some of the deposit as a gift. They wanted 
to add the fees to the loan, as they preferred to manage their overheads. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said MAB had submitted 
these mortgage applications in line with the information provided in the fact find. She didnt 
think MAB would have known that the applications would be turned down. It had shown for 
each of the lenders that applications could, in principle, be successful. She didnt think MAB 
had let Mr B and Miss D down, and she said it didnt have to pay back the fee theyd paid.
Miss D replied to disagree. She said two key pieces of information were wrong on the 
application to the first lender, her date of birth and her workplace, so she didnt see how this 
could ever have been successful. 
Our investigator sought some more information directly from this lender, and it said although 
it couldnt rule out that the mistake wed mentioned could cause problems, that wasnt likely 
in this case, because this application was declined by an underwriter on affordability and 
other risk factors. MAB also said that when this lender turned down lending again in July, it 
said that the problem was to do with the buyers deposit.
So our investigator said she didnt think that this lenders decision not to lend was impacted 
by any incorrect information MAB gave it.
Mr B and Miss D wanted their complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it came to 
me for a final decisions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr B and Miss D were first-time buyers, hoping to buy a house costing a little over £300,000. 
They wanted a 95% mortgage. They had a small deposit, and planned to use some gifted 
money to make up the rest. Their budget meant they would have to take borrowing over 35 
years or more  their initial application was made for a 38 year term. 
Lenders do have to make sure any borrowing is affordable for the buyer, both now and in the 
future. And they have to consider things like future potential interest rate rises, to make sure 
the borrowing is likely to be affordable in the long term. As our investigator explained, 
lenders arent under any obligation to agree to lend money. I know Miss D and Mr B were expecting to be approved for the borrowing they wanted, but I think that the circumstances 
described mean that the borrowing Mr B and Miss D wanted would, unfortunately, not have 
been easy to find in the current market. 
I can see that MAB obtained a number of decisions in principle for them  lenders who had 
made initial positive indications about being able to lend to them. But in each case, the 
lender then decided not to proceed. After the first lender declined, MAB appealed this 
decision informally, then spoke to Mr B and Miss D, and made some changes to support a 
fresh appeal, but unfortunately that wasnt successful. 
Given the reasons that this lender gave for refusing the lending, I dont think its likely this 
problem was caused by the errors Miss B has identified in that application document.
MAB then made an application to a different lender, waiving its fee, and this unfortunately 
was also declined. 
I think its worth noting at this point that when these requests were refused, MABs broker 
didnt simply accept that. I can see that he was in contact with both lenders to dig into the 
reasons for their decisions, and worked to see if these could be overturned. Unfortunately, 
that wasnt successful with either of the first two lenders.
I can also see that the broker discussed these decisions with Mr B and Miss D, making 
changes to their application where that was possible, and explaining or offering other options 
where it wasnt. As an example, Miss D said they could reduce the percentage of their 
deposit that was gifted, in an email dated 21 July, and the broker replied the same day to 
explain why that wouldnt help with their first application. But he did suggest a change to the 
deposit amount might help. And on the second application, when the lender didnt offer any 
hope of overturning the decision, the broker moved to suggest an alternative.
An application to a third lender was then made, again with the fee waived. This lender 
indicated it wasnt prepared to lend as much as Mr B and Miss D would like. That application 
was apparently still in progress when Mr B and Miss D decided to pull out of the purchase. 
MAB has shown us that its staff were in contact with Mr B and Miss D while their broker was 
on leave, so I dont think that their application was neglected during this time. 
I understand this experience has been very upsetting for Mr B and Miss D, but for the 
reasons set out above, I dont think thats MABs fault. I dont think it has let them down, or 
provided them with poor advice. So I dont think MAB has to pay back the fee they paid, or to 
reimburse them for other purchase costs theyve paid elsewhere. I realise Mr B and Miss D 
will also be disappointed by my decision, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss D 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman