DRN-4052416
The complaint 
Mrs S complains about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds administration of her personal 
pension policy.
What happened
Mrs S was a member of her former employers (which Ill refer to as S) defined benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme. Her DB pension included a guaranteed minimum pension 
(GMP). 
Mrs S took advice from another financial business, H, which advised her to transfer her DB 
pension to a Transfer Plan (formerly known as Transfer Plan 32). Mrs S accepted that 
advice and transferred her pension. Its now administered by Aviva, so Ill refer to Aviva 
throughout this decision.
Aviva required a policy proposal form to be completed, so that it could issue detailed policy 
documents and make sure it paid the right benefits on Mrs S retirement. The information 
provided on the form included things such as the dates Mrs S was a member of S DB 
scheme and her pensions transfer value. Under a section called Benefits, the guaranteed 
fund value was initially cited as £11,827. That was crossed out and replaced with £10,887. 
Another question on the form related to whether Mrs S had transferred in any other 
pensions, which were then reflected in her DB schemes transfer value. Although the answer 
to that question was no, figures were initially entered in the relevant section and then 
crossed out. 
According to a 1990 bonus statement (dated 1 January 1991) that Aviva sent to Mrs S, the 
value of the with profits benefit within her fund (the guaranteed benefit to which bonuses 
were added) was £10,887. Other statements sent to Mrs S showed a similar amount for the 
guaranteed fund value. 
H later reviewed its sale as part of an industry wide pension review set up by the regulator. 
It found that Mrs S policy had likely been mis-sold. It paid her compensation in line with the 
regulators guidelines. 
Mrs S lived overseas for a while. During that time, an investment adviser acting for her 
asked Aviva whether it was possible for her to transfer her Aviva pension to another plan. In 
a letter sent in June 2005 Aviva said the plan couldnt be transferred as its total value wasnt 
enough to cover the cost of the GMP.
Aviva wrote to Mrs S in 2022 as she was approaching retirement. It set out the estimated 
value of her retirement fund which was made up of a GMP and non GMP. 
Mrs S later complained to H as the amount of pension she was receiving didnt reflect the 
projections she was given when she first took out the policy. She also complained to this 
Service and another Ombudsman sent Mrs S his decision about that complaint. 
Whilst Mrs S was in touch with H about her complaint, other questions came to light, which H 
couldnt answer. Those were redirected to Aviva. They included things such as why 
amendments had been made to the policy proposal form without being initialled - Mrs S 
didnt recall any amendments being made. As she wasnt allowed to transfer her policy to 
another provider, she questioned where in the policy documentation it said this wasnt 
allowed. And if it came about as a result of a change in legislation/policy conditions, why 
Aviva didnt tell her about it. Similarly, Mrs S said she was told at the outset that she could 
take 100% of her pension as a lump sum, so she wanted to know where in the policy 
documents it said she couldnt. 
Aviva responded in August 2022 and said: 
Policy condition 7 says that the funds would be used in retirement to buy an annuity 
based on Avivas rates at the time. The policy schedule also explains that the annuity 
bought would at least match the contracted out GMP. 
The policy schedule on file didnt contain amendments. (Aviva appeared to accept in 
later responses that there were amendments to some of the documentation). 
The legislation concerning transfers of Section 32 policies that include a GMP to an 
overseas arrangement is something that HMRC, not Aviva, is responsible for. As 
such, detail wouldnt be included in a policy schedule. HMRC states that the cost of 
the GMP must be less than the plans transfer value in order for a transfer to take 
place. In Mrs S case, the cost of securing the GMP was greater than the transfer 
value. 
The costs associated with GMPs and transfer values change on a regular basis, so 
its only possible to know if a transfer can go ahead at the point Avivas asked for a 
transfer pack. This wasnt a change to Mrs S policy terms - HMRC legislation had 
always covered the contracted-out benefits within Mrs S policy. 
The policy was never designed to be paid out as a lump sum. The policy schedule 
explained it was an annuity contract that contained a GMP. Also, as the GMP is a 
defined benefit, it has to be paid as pension income. 
Following further contact from Mrs S, Aviva wrote to her again in September 2022 making 
some of the same points. It added that, when asked for a transfer pack in 2003, it completed 
the necessary calculations and confirmed the cost of providing the GMP was more than the 
transfer value.
Matters werent resolved despite further correspondence between Aviva and Mrs S. Aviva 
also confirmed that any projections given were estimates only and werent guaranteed. That 
said, it thought the initial illustrations relating to Mrs S policy were a reasonable expectation 
of returns and were thought to be achievable at the time. Recent investment returns had 
been lower. 
Mrs S complained to Aviva. It sent her a final response letter (FRL) on 7 November 2022. It 
said it didnt know why information on the policy proposal form had been crossed out, but it 
suspected the initial information included was in error. It said it wasnt obliged to notify 
customers of every legislative change, but it gave similar responses about when a plan such 
as Mrs S could be transferred and explained why hers couldnt be. Specifically, paragraph 5 
of Statutory Instrument 1996/1462 prevented a transfer in Mrs S particular case. Finally, it 
said the policy couldnt be taken as a lump sum as it contained a GMP. The GMP had to be 
taken as a pension income when benefits were taken from the policy.Mrs S complained to our Service. She raised similar issues to those raised with Aviva and 
said her complaint was about how the pension was sold to her in 1989 and the colourful 
picture [named financial business] projected. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint, but he didnt agree that Aviva had acted 
unfairly. The Investigator also thought, on balance, that figures had been crossed out 
because theyd been added in error.
Mrs S didnt agree with the Investigators assessment and made various comments in 
response. Ultimately, they didnt cause the Investigator to change his opinion. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has given me detailed comments in support of her complaint. I appreciate that this is a 
very important matter to her. And I understand why shed be concerned to find that the 
pension shes receiving doesnt reflect the projections she was given when she first took out 
the policy. Whilst Ive considered everything Mrs S has said, I wont be commenting on all of 
the points shes made. Thats because its clear to me that many of the residual questions 
and concerns Mrs S has actually relate to what she was told when she first took the policy 
out and the colourful projections she was led to expect. 
But Aviva didnt sell Mrs S the policy  an entirely separate company, H, did. And that 
company has already considered a complaint from Mrs S and has compensated her for the 
fact that the policy was likely mis-sold. I appreciate that Mrs S is clearly still unhappy about 
what happened and may think the compensation shes received doesnt go far enough. But 
that doesnt automatically mean that, as the policy provider, Aviva now has a case to 
answer. 
One of the points Mrs S makes is that it effectively doesnt matter who sold her the policy. I 
disagree. I think its directly relevant that Aviva didnt sell her the policy. So, it wasnt Aviva 
that raised her expectation about what pension she might receive in retirement. Its also 
worth pointing out that another Ombudsman at this Service has already given Mrs S his 
decision about her mis-selling complaint. So, taking those factors into account, I wont be 
addressing anything to do with the sale of the policy within this decision. 
Mrs S has raised a number of questions and concerns with Aviva. Those concerns broadly 
relate to the policy terms and specifically why Aviva didnt tell her if there was a change in 
legislation/policy conditions preventing a transfer. Shes also concerned that she wasnt able 
to take a lump sum on retirement. Mrs S feels Avivas actions and responses are at odds 
with the policy features described to her.
Again, I appreciate why Mrs S is concerned to find that her policy doesnt work in the way 
she expected it to  especially when she says features such as a lump sum and a potential 
transfer were key selling points for her. But, as Ive indicated, any remaining concerns Mrs S 
has about what she was told at the outset are intrinsic to her complaint that the policy was 
mis-sold. For the reasons Ive already given, its not something Ill be addressing here. A 
point that Mrs S has made is that other policyholders, such as her ex-husband, were able to 
transfer their policies in circumstances similar to hers. Whilst I haven't looked at  and cant 
comment on  somebody elses specific circumstances, in general terms, I think its worth 
saying that the fact another policyholder may have been able to transfer a policy, in what 
Mrs S believes to be similar circumstances, doesnt mean that Aviva did something wrong. I say that largely because small changes in fact can lead to entirely different outcomes for 
consumers. For example, a slightly larger sum invested could make the difference between 
whether the GMP sum is met - and so a transfer allowed - whereas a smaller sum invested 
may not meet the GMP threshold and as such a transfer won't be possible. And whilst 
individual policies might look and feel similar, in practice they will often have distinct terms 
and conditions and so operate in very different ways.
In any event, my role here is not to compare Mrs S policy to someone elses but to decide, 
based on the evidence Ive seen, whether Aviva responded to Mrs S questions and 
concerns in a fair and reasonable way. 
Mrs S seems to think that her inability to transfer her pension may have come about as a 
result of a legislation/policy change that Aviva didnt tell her about. Avivas response was that 
its not obliged to notify its customers of every legislative change. But in any event, it referred 
to the legislation concerning transfers. I think the relevant section that applies here is: 
A transfer payment may be made to a money purchase contracted-out scheme or an 
appropriate personal pension scheme
(c) the transfer payment (whether or not it forms part of a larger payment in respect of both 
guaranteed minimum pensions and other rights) is of an amount at least equal to the cash 
equivalent of the earners accrued rights to guaranteed minimum pensions, as calculated 
and verified in a manner consistent with regulations made under section 97 of the 1993 Act 
(calculation of cash equivalents).
And as Mrs S pension value was less than her GMP, a transfer wasnt allowed under that 
legislation.
I also think Avivas point  that its not obliged to notify every customer whenever theres a 
change in legislation  is reasonable. Im inclined to think that probably wouldnt be feasible. 
But, in Mrs S case, I'm not aware that there was a change of legislation. And, aside from the 
legislation Aviva cited, from what I can tell, theres always been a clause in Mrs S policy that 
says a transfer can only go ahead in limited circumstances. It says: 
Transfer out option
For contracted out cases the full value of your total fund can only be transferred if
a) you become a member of an employers contracted out exempt approved plan;
b) you effect a personal pension capable of accepting contracted out contributions;
c) you effect another Plan issued in accordance with Section 591 of Chapter I, Part XIV 
of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
If the transfer is to a plan other than that described above, the transfer value will only be that 
in excess of the amount requiredto secure the GMP.
My interpretation of the policy clause above is that unless the transfer was in one of the 
specific situations described (it doesnt appear that Mrs S was) a transfer could only be 
considered for amounts in excess of the GMP. In other words, the cost of meeting the GMP 
has to be met first before a transfer of any funds in excess of the GMP can be considered. 
That accords with my understanding of the conditions that often apply to policies such as 
Mrs S. So, taking account of the context Ive included above, I think Aviva has given Mrs S a 
reasonable response to this point. 
As far as taking benefits as a lump sum are concerned, Aviva said that as Mrs S policy 
includes a GMP, it had to be taken as pension income rather than as a lump sum. It referred 
to condition 7 of Mrs S policy. Ive looked at that condition within the policy schedule, which 
says:At the benefit datethe capital sum shall be applied using...current annuity rates to secure 
such relevant benefits as the Insured shall decide provided that
Each pension purchased under this condition shall be payable in regular instalments of 
such frequency as the Insured shall elect. A pension payable to the Insured shall be payable 
for the lifetime of the insured
The condition Ive referred to above does suggest that Mrs S pension would be paid in 
regular instalments throughout her lifetime rather than in a lump sum. Thats a common 
feature of annuity contracts. I appreciate that Mrs S may have a very different recollection of 
how benefits would be paid in her retirement, but, again, Avivas response seems fair and 
reasonable.
That said, Ive noted that the policy terms also say:  
Benefits on retirement
you can use the full value of your total fund to provide the following benefits:
Pension  a pension payable for your lifetime, which can be fixed, or increase annually at an 
agreed rate. 
Tax- free cash
At retirement it may be possible to take all, or part of your pension in the form of a tax-free 
cash sum. The amount available may have to be restricted to ensure that the pension 
payable is not less than the required Guaranteed Minimum Pension. The maximum benefits 
that can be provided are limited to those which could have been provided by the transferring 
scheme at the date of leaving service, increasing by the greater of 5% per annum 
compound
So, while that does indicate there are circumstances when a pension might be payable as a 
lump sum, it also suggests that would not apply in Mrs S case because a GMP was 
payable. The terms seem to suggest that a lump sum is only available in relation to excess 
funds where the cost of providing the GMP is less than the overall plan value. That doesnt 
appear to have been the case here. So, again, I cant see that there was anything unfair or 
unreasonable about Avivas responses on these particular points. 
Mrs S also alleges that Aviva altered a policy proposal document without her knowledge. 
And she thinks the amendments illustrate that certain projections were discussed, which 
didnt then materialise. She also says the amendments should have been initialled. 
I dont really think its in dispute now that projections were likely discussed that didnt 
materialise. I say that because Mrs S has already made a successful mis-selling complaint 
and has been compensated in respect of that. But as that relates to the sale of the policy, as 
Ive already said, its not something Ill be addressing within this decision. 
I can appreciate why Mrs S would be concerned by amendments to a policy proposal form 
that she hadnt seen before - especially as theyre not initialled. But, its difficult to say with 
any certainty whether Aviva did or didnt make the changes (it doesnt appear to have said 
either way, although I note that the handwriting doesnt appear to be the same throughout). 
But I dont actually think its necessary for me to make a finding on who amended the figures 
- and why. Thats because even if I was persuaded that Aviva definitely did make the 
amendments, that doesnt mean its done anything wrong. Rather, I think the outcome to this 
particular complaint turns on whether there has been some financial detriment to Mrs S as a 
result of the amendments made. For the reasons Ill set out, I dont think there has been. 
Mrs S thinks one of the amendments (shown at section 7) relates to the amount she 
expected to get from her personal pension. Ive looked at that section, but I dont think it 
shows what Mrs S seems to think. It relates to whether she intended to transfer in any other pension benefits accrued before her employment with S. As far as I can tell, Mrs S didnt 
transfer any other pensions in, so Id expect the answer to that question to be no. 
Therefore, any sums initially included and crossed out would seem to have been added in 
error. Theres nothing to say the previous amount was something Mrs S was entitled to. So, I 
dont think theres been any financial detriment to her as a result of this particular 
amendment. 
When responding to our Investigators assessment, Mrs S said there was another 
amendment at section 5 of the policy form. Our Investigator explained that this particular 
amendment hadnt been raised with Aviva, so he hadnt commented on it in his assessment. 
I agree with our Investigator here in saying that this doesnt appear to have been a specific 
point raised with Aviva, so it hasnt had the opportunity to comment on it. For that reason, I 
dont think it would be fair for me to reach a finding on it. However, to manage Mrs S 
expectations, if this was a complaint that was brought to me in future, for reasons similar to 
those I gave in relation to the amendments in section 7, its likely that, even if it was clear 
that Aviva made that particular amendment, Id need to see some evidence that pointed to 
the fact Mrs S had suffered a financial detriment as a result. 
To sum up, I can fully appreciate Mrs S disappointment that, in retirement, shes ended up 
receiving less pension than she expected  particularly given the downturn in investment 
performance. Thats also impacted whether bonuses have been paid to certain policies - 
including Mrs S. Although Mrs S herself acknowledges that Aviva made it clear bonuses 
werent guaranteed. But overall, I dont think Aviva has treated her unfairly here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong. So, I wont be 
upholding this complaint, or asking it to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman