DRN-3073516
The complaint
Mr J has complained about his motor insurer Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited 
because, when his car was stolen and recovered, it kept his car for several weeks, moved it 
using a forklift as it had lost his keys, which he believes caused damage, and then returned 
his car to him unrepaired. Watford said it wouldnt repair the car and it was cancelling his 
policy, with seven days notice, because the car had modifications it hadnt been told about. 
What happened
Mr J bought a car in August 2019 and amended his policy with Watford to cover it. The 
insurance paperwork shows that during that process Mr J told Watford the car didnt have 
any modifications. On 5 November 2019 Mr Js car was stolen, it was recovered the next day 
by the police. Watford collected the car from the police and an initial visual inspection of the 
exterior was done on 20 November 2019. It was concluded that there was no sign of forced 
entry, and the interior wasnt inspected because Mr J hadnt yet provided keys for access. It 
was felt the car was repairable.
Mr J provided keys but when Watford received them it didnt send them to its assessor 
straightaway. When it did send them, the assessor lost them. When Mr Js car was moved 
from the assessors to the repairing garage a forklift had to be used. Watfords engineer 
identified that the car had modifications, namely an extended rear spoiler, tinted rear 
windows, wind deflectors and narrowed headlights. Watford noted photos on Mr Js social 
media account which showed the car without these modifications. So it felt he had modified it 
since purchase. Watford wrote to Mr J stating it was cancelling his policy with seven days 
notice and that, in its view, he should have disclosed these modifications to it when he 
arranged the policy. It said because he hadnt it wouldnt settle the theft claim. 
Mr J was unhappy, he didnt think this was fair. He said his car had been damaged by use of 
the forklift and that hed had to take a day and a halfs leave from work on account of 
Watfords delays. He said hed also had to pay for taxis to work during the period Watford 
had his car keys but hadnt moved his car to the repairer.
Watford wasnt minded to change its view on the cancellation and claim decision. Nor was it 
minded to agree to pay any compensation to Mr J for either his financial or non-financial 
loss. Mr J complained to us. 
Our investigator felt Watford had failed Mr J in some respects and did need to act to put 
things right. But Watford didnt agree with her findings. Mr J sent us details, seemingly from 
Watford, that referenced the industry fraud database.
The complaint was passed to me to decide and I asked both parties for some more 
information. Having received and considered that alongside the previous file submissions, 
I issued a provisional decision. I said: 
I havent detailed in my background above everything that happened or everything the 
parties said to either each other or us. But I have read and understood everything and my 
background (above) and findings (below) address what I feel are the pertinent points that 
explain my views on this complaint.
fraud
Mr J has recently sent us some copy screenshots which seem to be detail hes been sent 
from Watford. This detail suggests Watford is intending to make an entry on industry fraud 
databases. If that is the case, I don't think that would be fair or reasonable. Theres been no 
allegation of fraud here and nothing that Ive seen that might equate to that. 
sale of the policy
In its letter to Mr J, and even in its responses to our service, Watford has talked about Mr J 
misleading it about the modifications at the point the policy for his car was arranged. But 
Watfords file clearly shows it believes Mr J modified the car after he bought it, after the 
policy had been arranged. And its supported that contention with photos from Mr Js social 
media account. That being the case it cant reasonably say Mr J misled it when he arranged 
the policy  following its argument the car wasnt modified at that time. 
  
cancellation of the policy
Watfords act to cancel the policy with notice also speaks to its true position on this 
complaint. Had Watfords intention really been to say Mr J had misled it at the point the 
policy was arranged then its remedy in that situation is set out in legislation. The legislation 
allows Watford to set things back to being as if the policy had never been arranged, and by 
doing so liability for any claim falls away too. But cancelling the policy, after the point of the 
claim, doesnt entitle Watford to disregard or decline liability for the claim. Thats because by 
cancelling the policy with seven days notice, Watford was insuring Mr J at the point the theft 
occurred and could only decline liability for the loss if it could show a relevant term or 
exclusion of the policy applied.  
Watfords policy does allow it to cancel with seven days notice. The policy also requires Mr J 
to tell it of any changes. So Ive considered, regardless of Watfords somewhat flawed 
reasoning for doing so, whether it was reasonable for it to have cancelled the policy.
I mentioned above that I think Watfords argument that modifications were done after Mr J 
bought his car and arranged the cover with it was compelling. Mr J has posted photos of his 
car, most of which, to me, look like sales photos of the car. They dont show any of the 
modifications Watford has listed. If the car had been sold with those modifications I cant see 
why or how Mr J would have these photos. So Im satisfied that Mr J likely modified his car 
after he purchased it. 
Mr Js policy says that he should tell Watford if he intends to make any modifications to his 
car. And that if he didn't do so then it may cancel his policy. But in the specific circumstances 
of this case I don't think Watford following those terms would be fair. Thats because Im not 
persuaded that the modifications in question fundamentally change the risk Watford was 
offering insurance for. And that means that whilst Mr J, strictly speaking according to the 
policy terms was meant to tell Watford prior to making any changes, it isnt reasonable for it 
to cancel his policy. I know Watford wouldnt have chosen to provide cover where it was 
aware the car had been modified but this was not a case where Watford was deciding 
whether or not to offer cover. Rather Watford had already agreed to and was insuring Mr Js 
car. And I dont think the way in which he then modified the car fundamentally changed the 
risk which Watford had agreed to offer and was offering cover for. Which means it cant 
reasonably cancel Mr Js policy mid-term.the claim
Even if Watford should be able to persuade me that its mid-term cancellation was 
reasonable, as I said above, that wouldnt automatically entitle it to decline Mr Js claim. That 
said I see that within Watfords file it has suggested to Mr J that his car may have been 
stolen because of the modifications. In some circumstances I could see an argument, with 
sufficient proof and/or reasoning in support, might give a legitimate reason for an insurer 
declining a claim. But Watford has put this idea forward as no more than a possibility. Im not 
persuaded that Watford had any reasonable cause to decline Mr Js claim. So Im going to 
say it must settle it.
claim settlement and other damage
Watford hasnt shown me anything from its engineer that sets out the cost of the repairs to 
Mr Js car to rectify the damage caused by or during the theft, although photos of the 
damage have been provided. And Im not sure if Mr J has had the car fully repaired, but he 
did provide a receipt for £600 for some bodywork repairs. Mr J has told us that he believes 
Watford is liable for a broken car window, and that the forklift damaged his steering. 
The details on the receipt for the bodywork repairs does appear to match at least some of 
the damage identified in Watfords engineers photos. So I think Watford should pay Mr J 
£600, plus interest* from 17 January 2020. And if Mr J has had other repairs done, or if there 
are any outstanding, he should send Watford proof of the cost he has or will incur. Watford 
will have to reimburse his outlay for repairing any insured damage, plus interest* from the 
date any bills were paid, or pay Mr J so outstanding work can be done. 
Watford says it isnt responsible for the broken window. But I dont believe Mr J was driving 
around with a broken window and a footwell full of glass before the car was stolen. And 
I note that Watfords file notes on 20 November state there is no sign of forced entry to the 
car, so it seems unlikely to me the window was broken during the theft (although if it was, 
Watford would reasonably be liable under the claim). There is also reference to an internal 
inspection not being possible because Mr J hadnt, at that time, provided the keys. But if the 
window had been smashed thered have been no need for keys. So I dont think the window 
was smashed until later, perhaps after Watfords agent was sent the keys and lost them. 
Either way it was definitely smashed by the time Watfords engineer took photos of the car 
on 8 January 2020. If Mr J has paid to replace the window then Watford will need to 
reimburse his cost for doings so, plus interest* from the date of repair. 
Mr J says the cars steering was damaged after the car was moved by forklift. And I see 
some notes on Watfords file which indicate there were some concerns that moving the car 
by forklift might damage it. But Mr J hasnt shown me any expert evidence to show there is 
an issue with the steering, what the likely cause of this is and what it will cost to fix it. So Im 
not minded to make Watford do anything in respect of this reported issue.
holidays and taxi costs
Ive taken note of disruption Mr J was caused during Watfords handling of this claim, and 
I say more about this in my compensation section below. But Mr J, because he took annual 
leave from work, hasnt had a financial loss in respect of taking days off work. So Im not 
going to make any award in this respect.
Mr J sent his keys to Watford, and on 25 November 2019 it confirmed to him it had received 
them. But it didnt send them to its agent straightaway, and when it did send them, they were 
lost. Watford was happy to move the car to start the repair, and once with the repairer Mr J 
was entitled to a courtesy car. Watford in fact arranged this for him on 19 December 2020 because its repairer couldnt provide one until the new year. But because of the issues with 
the keys the move to the repairer, and therefore the supply of the courtesy car, had been 
delayed. Between 29 November 2019 and 19 December 2019 Mr J used a taxi to get to and 
from work at a cost, accepted by Watford, of £20 a day. Im satisfied its reasonable to make 
Watford pay this sum  if it had sent the keys to its agent as soon as they were received, 
and the agent hadnt lost them, I think the car would have been sent for repair by 
29 November 2019 and Mr J would have had a courtesy car available for his use. Because 
that didnt happen, he incurred the taxi costs. Watford should pay interest on each journeys 
cost from the date of the journey until settlement is made.
compensation
I think this has been a stressful time for Mr J. His car was away for longer than it should 
have been and was returned unrepaired, with more damage, due to Watfords poor claim 
handling and unreasonable decisions to cancel the policy and decline the claim. Mr J also 
took time off work when the car was meant to be brought back to him but a mix-up meant the 
day was wasted, and he ultimately had to collect his car from Watford himself because it 
wouldnt cover the cost of returning it to him. Watford has also been chasing Mr J for monies 
it believes he owes him on account of the cancellation and declined claim. Im satisfied that 
Watford should pay Mr J £300 compensation.
Im minded to require Watford to:
Remove any record of fraud and/or avoidance, should any have been made, on its own 
and any industry databases.
Remove the record of the policy cancellation and reinstate the policy, allowing it to run 
until the next renewal after the incident, or to the point Mr J obtained alternative cover, if 
he did. If it runs to renewal the policy can then lapse, if it ends when Mr J obtained 
alternative cover, mark the record to show the policy was cancelled by Mr J.  
Subject to Mr J providing proof of any alternative insurance he arranged, reimburse any 
cost for this cover which was over and above the price charged for the cancelled policy. 
Plus interest* from the date Mr J paid the additional sum(s) until reimbursement is made.
Pay Mr J £600 as reimbursement of his repair costs, plus interest* from 17 January 2020 
until settlement is made. 
Upon sight of proof from Mr J, pay him an amount to reimburse or cover the cost of any 
other repairs (related to the theft) completed or outstanding. Plus interest* on any costs 
Mr J has already incurred, from the date they were incurred until settlement is made.
Upon sight of proof from Mr J, reimburse his outlay for replacing the smashed window, 
plus interest* from the date Mr J paid for this until settlement is made.
£420 as reimbursement of taxi costs  based on £20 a day for 21 days from 
29 November to 19 December 2019 inclusive. Plus interest* on the individual journey 
costs that make up this sum from the date of each journey until settlement is made.
Pay Mr J £300 compensation.
Both parties indicated they were happy with my provisional findings. But Watford asked how 
it should deal with the issues of Mr Js cost of cover and any other repairs (including the 
smashed window). And Mr J provided some more detail about the cost of cover hed had 
since Watford cancelled the policy. He also explained it had dealt with the smashed window 
for him  but only as a second claim with him paying a £50 excess. I considered the issues 
in question and wrote to both parties about what I felt Watford should do to resolve these 
issues. I said:
Further to my provisional decision, I note that both parties were generally satisfied by my 
findings. In preparation for issuing a final decision Im sharing some information Mr J has provided to us about his replacement cover. I also need to provide some additional comment 
in respect of repairs, particularly the smashed window.
The evidence attached shows that Mr J arranged replacement cover which began on 
10 February 2020, with another policy taking over on 10 February 2021. The policies cost 
Mr J £2,250 and £2,200 respectively (including a deposit paid against each sum). I see 
Watfords policy had cost Mr J £1,468.67. So the new policies cost him £781.33 and £731.33 
(respectively) more than hed have paid if Watford hadnt cancelled his policy. That totals just 
over £1,500, but I accept the price of cover with Watford each year might have fluctuated, 
accounting for things like its general pricing and taxation increases. So £1,400, I think, fairly 
reflects Mr Js cost incurred as a result of Watfords failure and Ill say Watford should add 
interest to the sum of £1,400 from 10 February 2021 until settlement is made. Usually Id 
require interest to be paid on each over paid amount from the date of payment  but here 
Ive set £1,400 as a fair sum, so this doesnt actually correlate with the total of all the monthly 
payments Mr J made. Therefore, I think setting interest to run on the whole amount from part 
way through the period during which Mr J was subject to paying the smaller, monthly, extra 
sums, is fair and reasonable. As such I intend to require Watford to pay Mr J £1,400, plus 
interest from 10 February 2021 until settlement is made.
In respect of repairs Watford asked whether it should deal with Mr J directly in this respect. If 
there are any other repairs not accounted for by my decision Mr J should let Watford know 
and they will both have to deal directly with each other to resolve them. However, if Mr J is 
able and happy to confirm that my decision covers everything, and I ask as he hasnt shown 
me so far that any other damage is outstanding, then Ill clarify this in my final decision. 
Meaning, in that event, that they wont have to communicate further in this respect.
I said provisionally that if Mr J paid for his window to be repaired Watford should reimburse 
his outlay. Watford asked if it needed to get details from Mr J to evidence his outlay. Mr J 
said Watford had fixed the window under his policy  but hed paid the excess of £50.00 to 
facilitate that. Im sure Watford will have a record of this being dealt with as a claim. As such 
Id ask it check its records, and remove any log of a separate claim for the broken glass. 
Watford should also have a record of the excess payment Mr J made  it should refund this 
to him as it shouldnt have been a separate claim. If Watfords file shows anything different, it 
will need to evidence so, in order to satisfy me that my suggested redress set out here is 
unreasonable. 
If the parties want me to consider any response to my above findings and suggested redress 
they need to provide them to our investigator by mid-day on 24 September 2021. I hope to 
make my final decision shortly thereafter.
Mr J said he was happy with the overall outcome. He said there were some other repairs but 
he didnt want to claim for them. Watford didnt object to my findings, but did ask if the 
£1,450 Id now said it should pay was in addition to the sums Id awarded initially. Our 
investigator confirmed that it was.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has objected to or substantially commented on what Ive said, I wont further 
review or revise my provisional findings. But I can confirm that the £1,450 I recently said 
Watford should pay was an additional sum to the figures Id set out provisionally. However, 
the £1,400 and £50 are not entirely new awards. Rather Ive formalised provisional awards 
Id made where I didnt previously detail an exact figure for Watford to pay. Although Ive added a direction for Watford to remove any record of a claim for the smashed window as it 
shouldnt have been logged as a separate claim. And, given Mr J doesnt want any further 
work to his car to be considered, Ive removed my provisional award which directed Watford 
to deal with any outstanding repairs.
Putting things right
I require Watford to:
Remove any record of fraud and/or avoidance, should any have been made, on its own 
and any industry databases.
Remove the record of the policy cancellation and reinstate the policy, allowing it to run 
until the next renewal after the incident, or to the point Mr J obtained alternative cover, if 
he did. If it runs to renewal the policy can then lapse, if it ends when Mr J obtained 
alternative cover, mark the record to show the policy was cancelled by Mr J.  
Pay Mr J £1,400 as reimbursement of his extra cost for cover, over and above the price 
charged for the cancelled policy. Plus interest* from 10 February 2021 until 
reimbursement is made.
Pay Mr J £600 as reimbursement of his repair costs, plus interest* from 17 January 2020 
until settlement is made. 
Pay Mr J £50 as reimbursement for his outlay for replacing the smashed window, plus 
interest* from the date Mr J paid for this until settlement is made.
Remove any record of a claim for the smashed window from its own and any industry 
database.
Pay Mr J £420 as reimbursement of taxi costs  based on £20 a day for 21 days from 
29 November to 19 December 2019 inclusive. Plus interest* on the individual journey 
costs that make up this sum from the date of each journey until settlement is made.
Pay Mr J £300 compensation.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Watford considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from any interest due to Mr J, it should tell him how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr J a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I intend to require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to 
provide the redress set out above at putting things right. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman