DRN-3860527
The complaint
Mr H and Miss T complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to cancel duplicate payments 
for their council tax and water bills. They say this caused them to incur extra Barclays 
account charges, it damaged their credit score, and it caused them distress and 
inconvenience.
Mr H has conducted most of the correspondence, so for ease of reference Ill refer just to 
Mr H for the rest of this decision, with no discourtesy intended towards Miss T. 
What happened
In January 2021 Mr H visited his local Barclays branch when he became aware, on checking 
his bank statements, that hed been overpaying his council tax and water bills. 
The relevant council and water company refunded Mr Hs overpayments in January 2021; 
and Barclays paid Mr H £68.10 to cover any extra account charges incurred, and it offered 
Mr H a further £250 for distress and inconvenience. Remaining unhappy, Mr H referred his 
complaint about Barclays to this service. As our investigator couldnt resolve things 
informally, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 30 November 2022 explaining what I was minded to 
conclude and direct, and why. Barclays told us on 7 December 2022 that it accepts my 
provisional decision; and Mr H explained to us in an email dated 13 December 2022 why he 
remains unhappy.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so  and Id like to reassure Mr H that Ive done so very carefully  Ive reached 
the same conclusions as in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons. That is, Ive 
decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ive explained my reasons again below, with 
additional comment where appropriate to address Mr Hs response to my provisional 
decision. Id like to reassure Mr H, given his response to my provisional decision, that no 
discourtesy is intended whatsoever by my decision to partly uphold his complaint. I 
acknowledge and sympathise with the difficult time he has been experiencing. 
Water bill overpayments 
Mr Hs overpayments to his water bill started in July 2019 and amounted to £801.60, which 
the water company refunded to Mr H in January 2021.
Between July 2019 and around January 2021, Mr H had two monthly payments going out for 
his water bill: a pre-existing standing order for £55, and a direct debit, which was set up in 
July 2019, for £45.20. The overpayment of £801.60, identified and refunded in January 
2021, amounts to £44.53 per month if spread over the 18 months from July 2019 to 
December 2020.
Mr H says that when he sets up any new standing order or direct debit, he always does so in 
branch. However, whilst Mr H believes that when the new direct debit for his water company 
was set up in July 2019 he would have asked Barclays to cancel the existing standing order 
to avoid overpayments, I havent seen any documentary evidence supporting this. I wouldnt 
necessarily always expect to. But here, Barclays has reasonably explained that when the 
new direct debit was set up in July 2019 the mandate was held by the water company and 
Barclays had no material dealings with it. So whilst I acknowledge Mr Hs feelings on things, 
it appears that he wouldnt have needed to have attended branch in order for the water 
company to set up the new direct debit, and that Mr H could easily have overlooked the 
overpayments at the time in July 2019 (which he indeed then did until around 
December 2020), thereby not querying them with Barclays until January 2021. So, on 
balance, Im not sufficiently persuaded that its most likely Mr H requested the pre-existing 
standing order be cancelled until he discovered things and went into branch in 
January 2021. 
Mr H has questioned why Barclays didnt nonetheless spot the overpayments for his water 
bills as possible fraud. However, these payments were in favour of a recognised utilities 
company. I dont think there was anything unusual about them from a fraud or scams 
perspective from which I could reasonably say Barclays ought to have been concerned from 
a fraud perspective. So, Im not satisfied it would be fair to hold Barclays responsible for the 
water bill overpayments (or consequences thereof) Mr H was promptly refunded in 
January 2021 when he realised hed made them. 
Council tax overpayments
Mr Hs overpayments for council tax started in June 2020 and amounted to £1,616, which 
the council refunded to Mr H in January 2021.
Between June 2020 and around January 2021, Mr H had two monthly payments going out 
for his council tax: a pre-existing standing order for £202, and a second standing order, 
which was set up in June 2020, for £210. The overpayment of £1,616, identified and 
refunded in January 2021, amounts to £202 per month if spread over the eight months from 
June 2020 to January 2021.
Mr H says that when he sets up any new standing order or direct debit, he always does so in 
branch. And its my understanding from the available information that Mr H most likely would 
have set up the new council tax standing order in June 2020 by attending branch. Mr H says 
he would have asked Barclays to cancel the pre-existing standing order at the time, and this 
would make sense to avoid overpayments. Ive not seen documentary evidence supporting 
this. But, as Ive said, I wouldnt necessarily always expect to. If Barclays had recorded 
Mr Hs request to cancel his pre-existing standing order for his council tax (which it didnt), 
we might reasonably expect it to have actioned it. So I dont find it surprising, in 
circumstances like this, where Mr H says he asked Barclays to cancel it and it didnt, for 
there to be no documentary evidence or internal Barclays note supporting this.
On the other hand, I would reasonably expect Mr H to have noticed the monthly council tax 
overpayments sooner than he did. Mr H has said its not his fault Barclays didnt cancel the 
relevant instruction, that he would never expect to have to check it had done what he asked 
it to, and that he shouldnt have to pay for Barclays mistakes. However, its not 
unreasonable for account holders to be expected to check their account to identify errors 
and report these as promptly to the bank as reasonably possible. And given Mr Hs financial situation as hes described it between June 2020 and January 2021, I dont think its 
unreasonable to say this about a monthly overpayment of such a significant amount (£202). 
So I think  in respect of the extra account charges incurred as a result of the payments, 
since the overpayments were already refunded to Mr H in January 2021  that Barclays and 
Mr H ought to carry joint responsibility, in view of what Ive said above and in view of the 
uncertainty around exactly what happened. In other words, Barclays should be responsible 
for 50% of the extra charges Mr Hs incurred on his Barclays account as a result of the 
council tax overpayments.  
Since Barclays has not been forthcoming providing full details (even if reconstructed) around 
these charges, there is a reasonable need for me to set out the precise amounts here, to 
resolve one of Mr Hs main complaint points which is about the amount of these charges.
Mr Hs Barclays account statements show that between June 2020 and January 2021 (when 
the relevant council refunded his overpayments) the yearly overdraft interest rate applying to 
his account was 29.930% for an overdraft balance between £16 and £2,320; and zero 
percent for any balance outside this range. The interest was charged monthly. On this basis, 
and looking at the account statements, I think its reasonable to conclude that the extra 
interest Mr H incurred each month on each £202 overpayment carried a monthly interest 
charge of 2.49% (which is the yearly 29.930% divided by 12 months). 
Mr H and Barclays will see that from my enclosed calculations, I have, on this basis, 
calculated that Mr H incurred extra overdraft interest of £192 as a result of his council tax 
overpayments. Mr H has said in his response to my provisional decision that the interest 
charged in January and February 2021, whilst he was waiting for the overpayments to be 
reimbursed to his account, dont appear in the calculations. But I dont agree, and I still think 
this calculation is fair. The calculations do include the interest I think Mr H would have been 
charged on each £202 overpayment from June 2020 to January 2021 up until February 
2021, even though Mr H was refunded the overpayments in January 2021.
For the reasons Ive said, Barclays should be responsible for 50% of this, which is £96. 
Barclays, however, has already paid Mr H £68.10 in this regard in January 2021. So, to 
make up the difference, Barclays should pay Mr H £27.90 (thats £96 less £68.10), plus 
interest calculated at 8% simple from 1 February 2021 to the date of settlement.
I understand Mr H is likely to be disappointed by this. But not all of the account charges he 
incurred were as a result of the council tax overpayments. And for the reasons Ive 
explained, Im satisfied this is fair. I havent, for the reasons Ive explained, found that 
Barclays should reasonably be held responsible for any extra account charges incurred as a 
result of the water bill overpayments  but just half of those incurred as a result of the council 
tax overpayments.
Borrowing ability and distress and inconvenience
Mr H has referenced a request he made in December 2020 to increase his unsecured 
borrowing, and he thinks the overpayments he made have adversely affected him in this 
regard. And in his response to my provisional decision Mr H has reiterated that he thinks a 
false banking history created by Barclays impacted him getting an additional loan with 
Barclays and that it should be corrected. However, Ive reached the same conclusions on 
this as in my provisional decision. Lending, and whether to extend lending, is ultimately a 
commercial decision for a lender to make. Ive already explained why I not persuaded 
Barclays is responsible for the water bill overpayments. Also, I havent seen any persuasive 
evidence that Mr Hs ability to borrow (or his credit score) was impacted by the council tax 
overpayments, as distinct from Barclays general approach to lending at the time. And as Ive said, I dont think its fair to say Barclays is wholly responsible for any impact from the 
council tax overpayments anyway. So Im not persuaded its warranted here for Barclays to 
be directed to alter any records.
In terms of distress and inconvenience, I think this would have been a distressing time for 
Mr H anyway, given what hes described. I dont think Barclays actions can reasonably be 
said to be entirely responsible for this. However, I agree with Mr H that Barclays could and 
should have dealt with matters much better  in particular, in my opinion, from 
February 2021. It has repeatedly been asked for details of its £68.10 calculation (by Mr H 
and this service) and repeatedly failed to provide them, not even a reconstructed account of 
how they might have been calculated. So, to reflect that Barclays has, in my opinion, 
exacerbated an already distressing period for Mr H, Barclays should pay Mr H £300 for 
distress and inconvenience (and not the £250 Barclays has previously offered). 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part, and I direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr H and Miss T:
£27.90, plus interest calculated at 8% simple per year from 1 February 2021 to the 
date of settlement. If Barclays deducts tax from the interest element of this, it should 
provide Mr H and Miss T with the appropriate tax deduction certificate; and 
£300 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman