DRN-3210051
The complaint
Mr S complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma Loans, did not 
manage his account correctly in that the letters it sent to him were not replied to and so Mr S 
says that Satsuma ought to have realised that and tried to contact him another way. Mr S 
says this led to him having a default on his credit file which he wants removed.
Mr S also complains that Satsuma should have alternative methods of allowing customers to 
change their personal details. 
What happened
In March 2019 Mr S was approved for a loan for £1,200 repayable in 12 monthly instalments 
of £199.20. Records provided by Satsuma show that Mr S account with it was opened in 
January 2019 at which point his address was no 38 in a town in the west of England. Just 
before that between 2017 and January 2019 his address had been no 10 in a nearby town. 
Currently his address is in a city.
There came a point in 2020 where Mr S has explained that he lost his job and became 
homeless. He has told us that was between August 2020 and February 2021. Mr S has 
described how he contacted Satsuma to increase his repayment amounts for the loan to 
discover that this was nine days after a default notice had been imposed on him and he had 
known nothing about it. 
Mr S cleared the balance of the account in June, July and August 2021. 
Satsuma has summarised some of the facts relevant to my decision in its final response 
letter to Mr S and I set out that paragraph here for ease of reading: 
On 9 April 2021, we sent you a Notice of Default which explained our intentions to 
register a default should you not take action in contacting us within the next 28 days. 
This Notice of Default letter would have detailed your arrears balance and the 
urgency for you to contact us. Prior to this letter, I can confirm we sent numerous text 
messages to you, for you to contact us. In addition, we also sent you arrears notices 
on 29 October 2019, 29 March 2020, 29 August 2020 and 29 January 2021 and an 
annual statement on 26 March 2021 which detailed your outstanding balance. Please 
note, it is a regulatory requirement to send these letters to last known address we 
hold. We are unable to send these letters by any other method other than post.
Mr S says that Satsuma did not do enough to contact him and now he says that the default 
registered on his credit file ought to be removed as it was not his fault.
He has explained to our adjudicator that he did try to inform Satsuma of his change of 
address but he could not find a way to do this on-line and has said that he thinks the only 
way he could have done it was using an alternative route to amending it on-line. He has 
criticised Satsuma for that and has said to us: 
I wish to have the default statuses on my credit file over turned and removed due to 
the matter of circumstances of which I was unable to pay the loan being out of my 
personal Control. a matter I feel I should not be penalised for.
Our adjudicator asked both Mr S and Satsuma for more details and having reviewed it all, 
concluded that Satsuma had not done anything wrong. It had offered him time to repay and 
the fact that the formal arrears and Notice of Default letters had been sent to the address it 
had on its file for him was not unreasonable. So, she did not think she needed to ask 
Satsuma to remove the default.
Mr S disagreed. His issue is summarised as 
Satsuma shouldve realised that there was an issue when there was no reply and 
shouldve made more of an effort to contact me via variable means. 
And Mr S says that this led to him missing the letters and so he was unaware of the issue 
and so the default ought not to have been applied and its not his fault. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the details surrounding Mr S complaint. And having reviewed the detailed 
account notes and the requirements imposed on lenders when approaching a customer for 
arrears, I do not think that Satsuma did anything incorrect. 
The account notes show numerous dates when contact had been made between Mr S and 
Satsuma  precipitated by both parties and replied to regularly. These commenced in or 
around January 2019. And so that shows me that Mr S was clear on how to contact Satsuma 
and had done for many months (well over a year) before Mr S found himself in difficult 
circumstances. I was sorry to read about that. 
On Mr S own evidence he was not homeless in April 2021 when Satsuma issued him the 
Notice of Default. And he has demonstrated to me that he had been receiving texts from 
Satsuma reminding him to pay money to it. It seems that still he was in arrears even though 
he had been repaying a sum regularly. 
The account notes I have seen indicate that Mr S latest repayment plan was not kept to and 
so that repayment plan was removed. Having reviewed the approach Satsuma took in 
relation to the debt then this was not unreasonable and in line with the recommended 
approach for lending businesses. 
And the fact that Mr S did not update Satsuma as to his address cannot be viewed as 
Satsumas fault. I have seen that in January 2019 Mr S had informed Satsuma of his new 
address when he was living in towns in the west of England. And so, it seems likely that 
Mr S knew how to do it. 
And the method Satsuma offers its customers to inform it of alterations to personal details is 
not a matter on which I can decide. It relates to internal Satsuma procedures and I say no 
more about this point. 
When a default is going to be recorded, a lending business  such as Satsuma - has to send 
the notice to the address it holds on file for the customer. If that address is wrong because the customer  here Mr S - hasnt updated it than that wouldnt be an error on the lending 
business part. I do not think that Satsuma did anything wrong by sending the letters to the 
address it had for Mr S on file. 
I have read and seen from Satsumas records, that contact had been established early in the 
lending relationship, continued for many months and so Mr S knew how to contact Satsuma. 
The texts he has shown me he received from Satsuma clearly were asking him to log in to 
his account and I am aware from the earlier account notes that Mr S was used to 
telephoning Satsuma. 
And we wouldnt expect Satsuma to contact its customer using alternative methods if it didnt 
get a response to its text or letters. Satsuma followed the rules about when the account 
defaulted in terms of notification and given that the repayment plan appears not to have 
been kept to by Mr S, the arrears on the account led to the default. So, I do not think that the 
issue lies with Satsuma.
I do not uphold Mr S complaint. The debt has been repaid and Mr S credit file will not be 
amended.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman