DRN-3207602
The complaint
T complains that London Community Credit Union Limited (LCCU) didnt do enough to 
prevent the loss caused to them as a result of an authorised push payment (APP) fraud.
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here. Briefly, in early June 2019, T fell victim to an invoice interception scam which resulted 
in them making two payments totalling about £26,000 to an account with LCCU. The fraud 
came to light a week later when the genuine supplier contacted T after non-receipt of the 
payments. T contacted its bank who in turn contacted LCCU, but it appears that no money 
was left by then on the recipients account.
T complained to LCCU that it failed to prevent the fraud. They asked what checks were done 
by LCCU prior to accepting the membership of its customer, and why it failed to act when 
large payments came into the account and was withdrawn so quickly. LCCU said that it 
hadnt made any mistake.
Our investigator concluded that LCCU could have done more to prevent the loss to T. They 
said it isnt clear from the information provided by LCCU whether, when their members 
account was opened, LCCU could have reasonably foreseen that the account would be used 
to receive fraudulent credits. They said that in any case, the relevant incoming transactions 
and the related outgoing payments were unusual activities to the recipients account. So, the 
investigator was of the view that had LCCU held the first large payment going out of the 
account and looked into things, it would have had an opportunity to prevent the fraud from 
occurring. But it failed to do so and therefore it is fair that it compensates T for the loss 
arising from the fraud. 
LCCU didnt agree. It said, in summary: 
T did not perform the checks that could reasonably expected of them when dealing with 
what appeared to be a change of account details of a supplier.
Tight procedures were in place when the recipient account was opened and valid 
evidence obtained. LCCU had no concern at the time the recipient account was opened.
LCCU met its obligations in carrying out the transactional monitoring as it investigated 
the source of funds with the sender bank. 
On further querying the final point, LCCU told us that the first incoming payment was flagged 
due to certain triggers. Following this it called the sending bank who said that they had not 
raised any suspicion over this payment and nor their customer. And on this confirmation the 
suspension was lifted. When the second incoming payment arrived, there was a trigger 
again but as LCCU had already cross checked the initial funds with the sending bank it felt 
that there was no need to repeat the process with the second payment. 
LCCU provided a screenshot of its system evidencing that it called the sending bank, but it 
wasnt able to provide any call recording. It said that this is because the call happened more 
than two years ago.
Following this, our investigator contacted the sending bank who said that there is no record 
of a call from LCCU on Ts file. They said that their process is to make a note on the account 
if such a contact was received and there is no such note in their records. They provided us 
with Ts account notes as evidence of this. They further said that they also searched their 
general call database for calls from LCCU from its main number (which later LCCU has 
confirmed is the correct number), and in all of June 2019 there were only four calls from 
LCCU but none of those related to T.
Following this, our investigator wrote to LCCU that on balance they cant be certain whether 
LCCU reached out to the sending bank. The investigator said that in any case they cant see 
that LCCU contacted their own customer or that they looked into the fact that the name on 
the payment didnt match their customers account once it was flagged. So, they remained of 
the view that LCCU missed an opportunity here to help prevent the fraud, resulting in a 
financial loss to T. 
LCCU responded to say that it would contest any suggestion that it did not call the sending 
bank. It reiterated that it did enquire with the sending bank and their notes suggest that these 
enquiries satisfied any suspicion LCCU had. It also reiterated that T failed to check with the 
genuine supplier the bank details before making the payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions essentially for the same reasons. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a financial business like LCCU is expected 
to process payments and withdrawals that a customer (its member) authorises it to make, in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that 
into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case. But that is not the end of 
the story. LCCU also has an ongoing obligation to be alert to various risks in relation to 
accounts with it. Specifically, Im mindful that it:  
must conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for 
Businesses 2);
have a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish and maintain 
effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable requirements and 
standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk that the firm might be 
used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook, which has applied since 2001);
must fairly and reasonably been monitoring accounts and any payments made or 
received to counter various risks including anti-money laundering and preventing fraud 
and scams. At the material time, those requirements included maintaining proportionate 
and risk-sensitive policies and procedures to identify, assess and manage risk, e.g. 
through customer due-diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business 
relationship including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the 
course of the relationship;must have systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so given the increase in 
sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years.
Ultimately, its a matter for LCCU as to how it chooses to configure its fraud detection 
systems and strike a balance between allowing its customers to transact business and 
questioning transactions to confirm they are legitimate.  But where it is alleged that it didnt 
do enough to prevent a loss which resulted from an APP fraud, I will look into the 
circumstances of the case and decide, based on what I have seen, whether in that case 
LCCU could have fairly and reasonably done more.
Taking all of this into consideration, I think in this instance LCCU had reason to have done 
more. I will explain why. 
LCCU hasnt provided us with the account history of their customer despite our requests. 
However, I note that LCCU doesnt dispute that the incoming and outgoing payments were 
unusually large for the account. Also, it hasnt provided us with any evidence to show that 
payments of this nature were in line with the regular or expected activity on this account.
In fact LCCU says that the first incoming payment was flagged due to certain triggers, in 
particular the size. It says at that time it contacted the sending the bank who confirmed that 
they do not have any suspicion over this payment and nor their customer. The sending bank 
on the other hand is adamant that it did not receive any call from LCCU about this. And as I 
previously noted they have provided us the historical account notes of T. This doesnt show 
that there was a call from LCCU concerning Ts account as claimed by LCCU. 
If there is a dispute about what had happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities 
 in other words, what is most likely  in the light of the evidence.
LCCU isnt able to produce the relevant call recording with the sending bank. It says that this 
is because the call took place two years ago. However, I note that we asked for its case file 
within a few months of the event happening.  
Even if I accept that LCCU called the sending bank, I cant know with certainty what exactly 
it asked the sending bank. For example, did LCCU discuss the implication of the mismatch in 
the payee name  which is something I would expect LCCU to ask the sending bank if the 
purpose of the call was to verify the genuineness of the payment. 
LCCU says that it asked a series of questions requiring yes or no answers and one of the 
questions was: Confirm the Sender and Receiver Account details. If such a question was 
asked, I think it is likely that the mismatch of payee names would have come to light. In such 
circumstances it seems unusual to me that the sending bank would confirm there and then 
that it had no suspicion about a payment without checking with its customer. And if it did 
check with its customer, I consider it more likely that it was recorded in the account notes or 
T would have had a recollection of it.   
I have carefully considered what LCCU has said but in the absence of corroborating 
evidence and for the reasons I have explained, I cannot be certain whether LCCU reached 
out to the sending bank and even if it did, whether it asked the questions relevant to this 
case in order to verify the genuineness of the payment.
In any case, I think that there was enough going on here in terms of incoming and outgoing 
payments that ought to have raised concerns to LCCU prompting it contact its customer 
about the transactions. There is no evidence that it did. The information the police has 
provided to T indicates that the recipient had admitted to having their account used as a money mule, that they didnt send any of the fraudulent emails or transferred the money 
onwards electronically but a third party was responsible for all these. Given this, I think that 
had LCCU contacted its customer and asked the appropriate questions including about the 
mismatch in payees name, it is more likely that their customer wouldnt have responded 
plausibly or at all. This would have prompted further investigation and allowed time for the 
notification to be received by the sending back, ultimately preventing these funds being 
fraudulently used. 
For completeness, Ive considered whether T should bear some responsibility for their loss 
due to any contributory negligence. But in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think 
they should. T was going about its business in the usual way without knowledge or 
awareness of the fraud. When they received the intercepted email, the email address 
appeared very similar to their actual suppliers address and the request itself wasnt out of 
the ordinary. They were expecting the invoice from their supplier. Further, I can see that they 
took steps to verify that the request was genuine and asked for a signed document from the 
supplier confirming the change in account details. And they did receive a document 
purportedly signed by the executive director of the supplier. Unfortunately, the document 
provided was also fraudulent, but T wasnt aware of all this at the time. So, in the 
circumstances I cant fairly conclude that they acted unreasonably. 
I appreciate that LCCU needs to strike a balance in the extent to which it intervenes in 
payments, against the risk of unduly inconveniencing or delaying legitimate payment 
requests. I also acknowledge the main perpetrator here is the fraudster. 
However, for the reasons explained, LCCU could have done more to help prevent the loss to 
T, but it failed to do so. Therefore, it is fair that it refunds the sum lost by T as a result. I also 
consider that 8% simple interest should be added to compensate for T being without funds 
they otherwise would have had. Interest should be paid from the date T (or its bank) first 
raised the fraud claim with LCCU until the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. In full and final settlement of the complaint, 
LCCU should pay £26,533.93 to T together with interest as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman