DRN-4297947
The complaint
Mr S complains that Comer & Farnan Pension and Insurance Consult gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer the deferred benefits in his defined benefit (DB) pension scheme to a 
personal pension plan (PPP). Mr S says this has caused him to have lower pension benefits 
in retirement.
What happened
Mr S was a customer of Comer & Farnans between, around 1990 and 2004. And over that 
period provided him with financial advice at a number of points. 
Mr S says that Comer & Farnan provided him with advice to transfer the deferred benefits in 
a DB scheme in 1990. By May 1991 he transferred a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) 
from a DB pension into that PPP.
Mr S used his PPP to take a pension commencement lump sum and an annuity in 2006, at 
the age of 51.
In 2020 Mr S complained to Comer & Farnan via legal representation. As this representative 
acts on Mr Ss behalf I will mostly refer to Mr S in this decision.
Comer & Farnan responded to Mr Ss complaint to explain that it thought it had been made 
too late to be considered. So Mr S brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator was 
unable to resolve this issue with Comer & Farnan so the case was referred to me for a 
decision on jurisdiction.
I issued a decision explaining why, based on the evidence available, this case was in our 
jurisdiction. In that decision I explained:
That I needed to determine if there was a point where Mr S ought reasonably to have 
been aware that he was likely to receive lower benefits in retirement than hed given 
up in his DB scheme.
That, in order for me to decide that was the case, I needed evidence that Mr S would 
have known what his DB scheme benefits would likely have been worth at his 
retirement age. And comparable evidence of what his PPP might pay, presented in a 
way that ought to have made it clear to Mr S that his benefits in retirement would be 
lower.
I explained that I had seen no evidence from either Mr S or Comer & Farnan that 
would lead me to decide, on a balance of probabilities, that Mr S ought to have 
thought he might be worse off because of the transfer.
In response to my jurisdiction decision, Comer & Farnan sent us some of the information that 
our investigator had been asking it for. That information included what appeared to be 
advisor notes for Mr Ss transfer. It includes the advisors calculation of Mr Ss deferred DB 
scheme benefits revalued up to his schemes retirement age of 65. It calculated that to be a 
pension of £23,807.12 a year by age 65. It didnt include any written recommendation that 
Mr S had been given at the time.
Our investigator didnt think the information was sufficient to make a difference to our 
jurisdiction. And looked into the merits of the complaint. She didnt think that the evidence 
available indicated that the advice for Mr S to transfer had, at that time, been unsuitable.
Mr Ss representative disagreed with our investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsman 
to decide the outcome. The basis for it disagreeing with the view was that it considered it 
simplistic, relying simply on the question of whether the transfer was financially viable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before going on to give my thoughts on the merits of this case, I will first explain that I have 
not changed my mind on our jurisdiction. I have still not seen any evidence of any written 
document or recommendation that Mr S was given that set out for him what his DB benefits 
may have been at retirement age. The evidence I now have persuades me that Comer & 
Farnan took that into account in making its explanation. But in being able to make any 
meaningful comparison with pension statements, more than ten years after any advice, I 
would need to believe that Mr S had something to refer to. Other than a conversation ten 
years previously. The evidence that weve been provided doesnt mean that this complaint 
was made too late, for the reasons I already explained.
I understand that Mr S now believes that he is worse off by transferring this DB scheme. 
Even though he took the benefits in his PPP earlier and in a very different way than was 
offered by the DB scheme. So I know that Mr S will be disappointed that, for similar reasons 
to our investigator, Im not upholding his complaint. 
The advice in this case was provided in 1990. And, understandably, the evidence is 
incomplete. Mr S has unfortunately provided no documentation to support his complaint. 
Comer & Farnan have long since stopped trading as a regulated partnership. But have now 
provided us with the documentation that they have been able to find. Where the evidence is 
incomplete I must decide, on a balance of probabilities, what most likely happened. In this 
case, it means that, to uphold Mr Ss complaint the evidence needs to indicate that the 
advice to transfer was, more likely than not, unsuitable for him.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. The advice was provided in September 1990. Comer & Farnan was a member of 
the Financial Intermediaries, Managers and Brokers Regulatory Association (FIMBRA). And 
it is FIMBRAs rulebook that applied to the conduct of Comer & Farnan in 1990. 
The FIMBRA rulebook set out the expectations on members when giving advice. This 
included the provision (from July 1988) that advisers should ensure their recommendations 
were made on the best interests of the client. Mr Ss representative, when making out his 
complaint referred to the presumption that advisers should assume that transfers from DB 
schemes were unsuitable unless clearly in the clients best interests. This wasnt in fact a 
rule that was in place in the FIMBRA rules in 1990. So I will not be holding the advice given 
by Comer & Farnan to that test.
Comer & Farnan have provided a detailed explanation of its understanding of Mr Ss 
circumstances when it provided its advice. So I think, its more likely than not, that 
knowledge was acquired in getting to know the client at the time. Of the limited notes we 
have, there is an indication that Comer & Farnan have assessed Mr Ss attitude to risk as 6 which was on a scale of 10. Ive no reason to suppose that this was unreasonable or that it 
wasnt based on the information Mr S provided. Or indeed that he was aware and agreed 
this. 
No comment was given regarding Mr Ss capacity for loss. But he was still 30 years from his 
selected retirement age when Comer & Farnan gave this advice. He was still contributing to 
his pension. So he had time to continue to build provision for his retirement over his working 
life. It would have been reasonable to assume that, whilst valuable, this DB scheme wouldnt 
form the main part of Mr Ss retirement provision at age 65. I think that Mr S most likely had 
sufficient capacity for loss associated with investing his pension in the way that was 
recommended.
Comer & Farnan have now provided documentary evidence in the form of handwritten notes 
that it says are from the time of advice. The document is undated, and I have carefully 
considered the contents. Its headed with Mr Ss name. And it sets out options that appear to 
be retaining deferred benefits of £23,807.12 a year at age 65; year for year transfer of 
benefits; and taking a transfer value of £23,084 to a PPP. So I think it relates to the transfer 
in question in 1990 as the CETV is the same as included in the projection from the personal 
pension provider.
The document includes sketches that look as if they were drawn to accompany an 
explanation about the pension options. And it indicates how the pension was revalued to 
reach the estimated figure of around £23,800 a year at age 65. It compares that with an 
indication of the projected growth based on returns of 8.5% and 13% that were used in the 
pension providers projection. It showed how the revalued DB scheme benefits fell within 
those parameters with the lower return projecting £13,100 a year at age 65 and the upper 
projecting £53,900 a year at age 65.
On balance, I think that this document is likely to have been produced as an aide to 
explaining the options to Mr S as Comer & Farnan have explained. It doesnt tell me what 
information would have been included within a written recommendation. But it does indicate 
that Comer & Farnan calculated a revalued annual income for Mr Ss DB scheme benefits at 
65. And had used that to illustrate to him how that value (£23,800) would compare with the 
benefits he might achieve by transferring. I need to consider whether a transfer was likely to 
give Mr S higher pension benefits than his DB scheme by transferring. Which Ill refer to as 
the Financial Viability Test. 
The advice was given during the period of the industry-wide Pensions Review, so the rates 
the regulator published for Financial Viability Tests are directly relevant here. The investment 
return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at retirement looks to be 
around 10% per year, based on the projections provided.
This compares with the upper limit the regulator gave for a Financial Viability Test (FVT) of 
12.9% per year for 29 years to retirement in this case. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 13%, the middle 
projection rate 10.75%, and the lower projection rate 8.5%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the FVT rate, Mr S's 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. I think Mr S was unlikely to receive benefits of 
a materially lower overall value than the occupational scheme at retirement, as a result of 
investing in line with his attitude to risk. So, its more likely than not that, it was reasonable to 
suppose that this transfer would meet Mr Ss requirement of improving on the benefits he 
would get. Based on what was known or anticipated at the time.Mr Ss representative has argued that this is too simplistic as it doesnt reflect the other 
reasons that may have made a transfer in Mr Ss best interests. Although Mr S may have 
considered the chances of his retiring early, he was unable to take any benefits prior to age 
50. Which would still have been nearly 15 years off. So there was no particular reason for 
him to make any decision about the flexibility offered by a personal pension at that time. 
Even though that appears to have been one of his listed objectives. Overall, I think that the 
likelihood of this transfer being able to give a realistic chance of improved benefits would 
have been key in determining whether recommending it was in Mr Ss best interests.
Given that the transfer would most likely have seemed to be Financially Viable, there is no 
evidence to suggest that the advice that Comer & Farnan gave Mr S was unsuitable for him. 
So I am not upholding the complaint,
My final decision
For the above reasons I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman