DRN-4088476
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave him unsuitable investment advice. Mr A is 
being represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC).
What happened
In 2004 Mr A met with an adviser from HSBC. A full fact find was carried out which 
determined among other things, that:
Mr A was married, in good health and with no dependants. 
He had £17,000 income, and had recently received £50,000, which formed the bulk 
of his existing savings. He had invested £30,000 in a 3 year fixed rate account and 
was left with around £20,000 on deposit. 
He had some liabilities which he was repaying, and after living expenses, debts and 
general expenditure, he had around £200 disposable income every month. 
He had a low attitude to risk. He told his adviser that he was apprehensive about 
investing in the stock market, as he had seen the effect of drops in value on his 
pension. He also said that he didnt want to consider national savings as he thought 
that growth was limited in this area. Mr A said his objective was capital protection and 
tax efficiency. 
As a result the adviser recommended two capital protected products  a capital protected 
ISA and a Stock Market Linked Growth Bond. Mr A invested £7000 in the ISA and £5000 in 
the bond. The ISA matured in September 2009 and Mr A received £7,712.07 back. 
In November 2021 Mr A complained. In short, he said that at the time it wasnt suitable to 
recommend that he invest so much of his liquid assets in these investments, and that 
instead he shouldve been advised to pay off his debts and invest his money in high interest 
deposit accounts. He said that the recommendation involved him investing an unacceptably 
large percentage of his liquid assets. He also said that there was insufficient evidence that 
HSBC had compared deposit accounts at the time to see if the capital protected investments 
were worth it. He said that if he had known he couldve made more in risk free and 
guaranteed returns, he wouldnt have gone ahead with the investments. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint, but didnt agree it should be upheld. In 
short, she felt that it was fair and reasonable for HSBC to have considered the capital 
protected investments suitable for Mr A. 
She thought the investments were affordable and in line with the amount of risk Mr A was 
able and willing to take. Mr A didnt agree. In summary, he said:
His main goal was growing his savings without investing directly in the stock market. 
He said the most prudent way to achieve this wouldve been to pay his existing debt. 
The monthly expenditure shows that there was no provision for any savings vehicles 
and he was only putting a small amount away in his pension. Given his low income, 
he shouldve been advised far greater caution, especially considering his impending 
retirement. 
Overall, he wouldve been able to guarantee his main goal of growing his capital if he 
had placed any surplus funds after paying off his debts into a long term savings plan 
or a tax efficient pension. He said that it was prudent for him to be using 50% of his 
income to pay off debts, and only saving 0.41% of his income for retirement. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by saying that given the amount of time that has passed, it is understandable 
that not all the relevant documentation has been available. I dont agree it would be fair to 
draw any inferences from that. Where evidence is missing or incomplete, I am required to 
decide the matter based on what I consider is most likely to have happened  and so this is 
what Ive done here. 
Ive considered Mr As submissions very carefully  but whilst Ive taken into account what 
he and the CMC have said, Ive also had to take into account the contemporaneous notes of 
his conversation with the adviser at the time. 
These notes show that Mr A was willing to take a low risk rather than simply leaving it in 
cash deposits to have the potential to receive a better return than cash deposits alone can 
provide or protect its value by countering the effect of inflation over time and understand the 
risk of capital loss. The notes also say that the adviser offered to provide a shortfall needs 
analysis in relation to Mr As pension, but he declined because he did not want to increase 
[his] pension provision. So, in relation to his concerns about not being advised to increase 
his pension contribution, Im satisfied that this was something he specifically declined to 
receive advice on. 
Its clear to me that Mr As main priority was maximising the investment return on the cash 
he had available. The notes say that he had received £50,000 from his daughter and had 
already placed £30,000 in a high interest deposit account. Mr A explained that he was 
therefore looking to review his options for the remainder, which he said he could invest for at 
least 5 years. In discussing these options, Im satisfied Mr A was clear that he did not want 
to consider National Savings options, but that he was equally apprehensive about investing 
the stock market directly. 
As a result, the adviser recommended two capital protected products. The first one, and the 
only one for which I have a product brochure, says that it would pay out 70% of the 
percentage growth of the FTSE 100 over the term and a minimum 10% on the original 
investment. 
I do not have the brochure for the other bond, but my experience of these types of products 
suggests that given it was called a Stockmarket Linked Growth Bond, it will have worked in 
very much the same way, with some variation in the rate of return. 
In total, HSBC recommended Mr A invest £12,000 in capital protected stock market linked 
investments. This represented about a quarter of Mr As investible assets  with the remainder being in cash. Given that Mr A had retained £8,000 as emergency funding (which 
was more than the loan he was repaying) and had disposable income at the end of the 
month of around 16% of his monthly earnings after tax, Im not persuaded this was an 
unaffordable recommendation. Its clear to me that Mr As largest liability was a loan which 
had only 3 years remaining on it  and in my view, the notes of his meeting with the adviser 
suggest that he wasnt looking to clear his liabilities with the cash he had available, and 
instead was keen on investing it. 
So Ive therefore considered whether it was fair and reasonable for HSBC to have 
recommended the two investments that it did. Having done so, Im satisfied that these 
investments were in line with what Mr A was looking for, and in line with his attitude to risk. 
Mr A and the CMC have directed me to the potential for placing more money into deposit 
based accounts  but Mr A was clear that he wasnt interested in doing this. He wanted an 
investment that might give him the opportunity for additional growth, over and above a 
deposit based account, without risking his capital. In my view, both investments which HBSC 
recommended achieved this aim. Its clear that being linked to the stock market there was a 
risk that Mr A would only receive his capital plus 10% back  but at the same time, there was 
a potential to benefit from a significant rise in the stock market without actually being 
invested in equities. That is precisely what Mr A was after. Thats not to say that there 
werent other suitable alternatives  but HSBCs recommendations didnt need to be the 
most suitable, or the only suitable options. They only needed to be suitable for Mr A, in light 
of his objectives, attitude to risk and overall financial circumstances. For the reasons Ive 
given, Im satisfied they were. 
In reaching my findings, Im also mindful that Mr A already had ample savings  and it 
seems fair and reasonable that the adviser would recommend alternative investments that 
had the potential for providing greater growth, whilst still ensuring Mr As capital was 
protected. Taking all this into account, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for HSBC 
to have concluded that the two capital protected investments it recommended were suitable 
for Mr A. And as a result, Im not persuaded it ought to pay any compensation or do anything 
to put things right. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman