DRN-2552860
The complaint
Mr C is complaining that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited has continued to require him to 
make payments on a fixed sum loan agreement, even though he says the agreement has 
contractually ended.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr C entered into a fixed sum loan for the purposes of furniture upholstery. In 
August 2018 Omni says it emailed Mr C to say it had been informed the supplier had 
completed the work, so it would start to take monthly payments from 1 September 2018. In 
June 2019 Mr C contacted Omni to query why it had continued to take payments as he said 
the agreement was a 12-month agreement. So he said the agreement ended in May 2019.
Omni didnt agree with Mr C. It said the terms of the contract sets out Mr C was required to 
make 11 instalments and he hadnt done so. Mr C didnt accept Omnis response. He said 
Omni had changed the terms of the contract without his consent by it starting it in 
August 2018. He reiterated that the contract clearly set out it was a 12-month contract and 
ran from the date of the signature. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said it wasnt unusual for a restricted credit 
agreement to start when the service had been provided and she didnt think that was 
unreasonable. She said the terms of the contract required Mr C to make 12 monthly 
payments, so she didnt agree Omni had breached or changed the terms of the contract.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators opinion, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Mr C entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Omni in May 2018. Under the terms of 
the contract, he borrowed £3,500 to be paid over 12 instalments. Mr C has highlighted the 
contract says the following:
Duration of agreement: 12 months from the date this agreement is made.
He says he signed the agreement in May 2018, so he says this is the date the agreement 
was made. So he doesnt think he should have to pay anything after May 2019. But I dont 
agree.
While I do not disagree an inference can be drawn from this term is the agreement is to run 
for 12 months from the date the agreement is made, the term cannot be considered in 
isolation without consideration of the rest of the contract. In particular, it has to be 
considered against the core purpose of the contract for Mr C to borrow £3,500 and the 
subsequent requirement to repay this back to Omni. I also I note the contract further sets 
out:
Each monthly instalment is due and payable on the same date in each consecutive month 
or, where there is no equivalent date, the last day of that month (and where an instalment 
falls due for payment on a non working day being Saturday, Sunday or a bank holiday, that 
instalment shall become payable on the next working day), commencing one month from the 
date of this agreement or such later date as we may inform you in writing.
So the contract specifies that the instalments may be payable from the month after the 
month the agreement was signed or at a later date if Omni informs as such in writing. Due to 
the passage of time, Omni says it doesnt have the covering letter it would have sent 
alongside the finance agreement. I think its most likely this would have explained when the 
agreement would have started. But, irrespective of this, Omni has provided a copy of the 
email it sent Mr C in August 2018 where it set out the agreement had now started. So Im 
satisfied  in line with the terms of the contract  it advised Mr C when the agreement 
started. And Mr C didnt raise any concerns with Omni at that time.
I dont think Omni has changed the terms of the contract  as Mr C has inferred. I also dont 
think theres any significant ambiguity in the terms of the contract. Im satisfied it clearly sets 
out Mr C is contractually required to repay the £3,500 Omni lent him in 12 separate 
instalments. I havent seen anything in the terms of the contract that changes these express 
terms. So I dont think it was unfair for Omni to say Mr C still owed money after May 2019 
and to say the account was in arrears.
Ultimately, Mr C was required to repay £3,500 but he has only repaid £2,916.68. So there is 
still £583.32 outstanding and its fair for Omni to require Mr C to repay this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman