DRN-3520956
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the way Allianz Insurance Plc has handled a subsidence he made 
under his buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P made a claim for subsidence at a property he rents out to tenants. Allianz accepted the 
claim and carried out investigations into the cause of the problem. It concluded two areas of 
vegetation were the cause of subsidence  a hedge owned by Mr P and a tree owned by the 
local authority.
Mr P was unhappy with how Allianz was handling the claim and made a complaint, which he 
referred to this service. In February 2021, an ombudsman made a final decision about it. In 
summary, they found the steps Allianz had taken up to that point had shown the property to 
be stable and underpinning wasnt required.
A second complaint arose about a claim for loss of rent and the way the claim had been 
handled up until June 2021. Thats being considered separately.
In late 2021, Mr P made a third complaint. This covered events from the end of the previous 
complaint, in June 2021, until Allianzs response to the third complaint, in November 2021. 
Three main points made up this complaint:
Cash settlement offer made by Allianz
Repairs carried out by Allianz
The local authority tree
Allianz accepted there had been delays and poor service during this time and offered Mr P 
£250 compensation. Other than that, it thought it had handled all aspects of the claim fairly 
during this time.
Our investigator thought Allianzs offer was fair and didnt recommend the complaint was 
upheld. Mr P disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision covers the events relevant to Mr Ps third complaint, which is essentially the 
way the claim was handled between June and November 2021. As a result, I wont be 
considering or commenting on any other aspects of Mr Ps claim and complaints  whether 
they happened before or after this timescale.
Ill consider each of the three main points separately.
Cash settlement offer
Mr P enquired about settling the claim by cash settlement. I understand he was offered 
around £4,000 by Allianz. He thought the cost was likely to be significantly higher and 
declined the offer, leaving Allianz to carry out the work.
As the work neared completion, he discovered the cost to Allianz was greater than their 
original cash offer. I understand the cost was approaching £20,000 by November 2021.
Allianz says its original offer was its best estimate at the time but that it subsequently 
increased the scope of the work, and the cost rose accordingly. It says it later added costs 
for reinforced crack repairs and levelling the lounge floor, and finalised costs for things like 
skip hire, and this is what increased the cost of work. It added that if Mr P had accepted its 
original offer and had also encountered an increased scope of work and/or costs, Allianz 
would have considered additional payments.
I think Mr P considers the difference in the original offer and the more recent cost of work a 
sign that Allianz hasnt treated him fairly. But its unclear what impact, if any, this difference 
in cost has had on him. And, as Allianz has pointed out, had Mr P accepted the original offer 
and later found it was insufficient to carry out the work, he would have been entitled to return 
to Allianz to explain why and seek a further payment.
My role isnt to punish financial businesses if they make mistakes. Its to compensate 
consumers for any impact they suffer as a result of a mistake.
So even if I thought Allianzs original offer was mistakenly or unfairly low, I would need to be 
persuaded this had an impact on Mr P before I could require Allianz to do anything about it. I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest the difference in amounts has caused Mr P any 
negative impact. So Im not satisfied Allianz needs to take any further action on this point.
Repairs
By the end of November 2021, Allianz considered the repair complete.
I understand damage remained at the property, but Allianz thought it was unrelated to the 
subsidence problem. So it didnt agree to carry out repairs in these areas  the roof, cellar 
and toilet. It invited Mr P to provide further information if he thought they were subsidence 
related and agreed to consider it. I think that was a reasonable response at the time.
I know Mr P thought Allianz should have done more to look into these areas of damage and 
explain why they werent linked to subsidence. Allianz did provide explanations based on the 
opinion of its surveyors, so Im satisfied it did give appropriate thought to the points Mr P had 
raised. And it remained open minded to considering further evidence from him, which I think 
was a fair position to take.
I understand discussions on these areas of damage may have continued after November 
2021, but thats beyond the scope of this complaint so I wont comment further.
Allianz has accepted it missed the lounge floor levelling from the original schedule of work. It 
later added it, but that caused a delay which should have been avoided. Ive factored that 
into my thinking about compensation.
Local authority tree
Prior to the events of this complaint, Allianz had identified a local authority tree as 
contributing to the subsidence problem. It says it approached the local authority about the tree, but they refused to accept liability or remove it. Allianz thought vegetation under Mr Ps 
ownership was primarily causing the problem and arranged for it to be removed.
The property was monitored and Allianz thought this showed stability, despite the local 
authority tree remaining in place.
Another ombudsman considered the position in 2021. They were satisfied Allianz had shown 
the property to be stable at that time and underpinning wasnt required.
I cant reconsider the evidence which led to the previous decision. And I havent seen any 
further expert investigations or commentary during the relevant time which might suggest the 
property had become unstable. So I dont think Allianz was given cause to revisit this point.
Allianz cant force the local authority to take any action. But by making it aware of the risk the 
tree poses, Im satisfied its taken reasonable steps. The local authority is responsible for 
maintaining the tree. It may choose to remove it or reduce its size. Or its possible it wont 
take any action.
Whilst I can understand that uncertainty may cause concern for Mr P, I dont think Allianz 
can reasonably be expected to take any further action at this point. Without any evidence to 
show the tree is causing ongoing problems with the property, I think its very unlikely Allianz 
would be able to persuade the local authority to act differently.
Mr P is entitled to contact the local authority directly and ask it to take action with the tree.
Allianz has let Mr P know that if damage later returns, he should let it know. It will consider 
whether the cause of the damage is the local authority tree. And if it is, it will consider 
treating the damage as a continuation of this claim. At that stage it may be appropriate for 
Allianz to take further action. But that will depend on the circumstances at the time  and 
only if damage does return, which it may not. I think this is a reasonable approach in the 
circumstances.
Summary
Allianz has accepted there were delays when communicating with Mr P during the relevant 
time. It also accepted it caused delays during the repair process.
Im satisfied Allianz has accurately identified its failings  and Im persuaded the £250 
compensation it offered was fair and proportionate in the circumstances. For that reason, Im 
not going to ask it to do anything further. If it hasnt already paid this sum to Mr P, hes 
entitled to ask for the payment to be made now.
I know Mr P is concerned about the cost to him of lost rent during the time of this complaint, 
as well as at other times. I dont think its appropriate for me to make a finding on that here 
as the matter is being considered under a separate complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
James NevilleOmbudsman