DRN-2560081
The complaint
Mrs B, on behalf of the estate of Mr B, complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) has 
refused to pay the estate money from a newly discovered account.
What happened
Mrs B says she went through Mr Bs documents and discovered an open passbook for an 
account that had about £3,000 in it. She says Mr B passed away in 2009 and the account 
was opened in 1999. Mrs B believes BoS has the money and would like it repaid to the 
estate.
BoS says the account was opened in March 1999 and says it was closed in 2004. It says its 
likely the passbook wasnt updated but says the money in the account was paid into Mr Bs 
current account. It also says that if there were any issues, then its likely Mr B would have 
raised them before he passed away. 
Mrs B didnt accept that explanation and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint and thought BoSs records suggested the money was paid into the 
passbook account by mistake and later paid into an ISA. The investigator didnt think there 
any evidence of a mistake.
Mrs B doesnt accept that view and questions what the ISA allowance was at that time and 
says interest was paid in 2000 of over £115 which would be impossible if a payment was 
made in error.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that BoS has dealt fairly with this complaint. 
I appreciate that Mrs B will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at the passbook that Mrs B found and can see the account was 
opened in 1999 and under the heading change of account details the date 2 September 
2004 is recorded. I also make clear that a passbook may show a balance that isnt accurate 
as there was no obligation to update them at the time. And I also accept that BoS will not be 
able to provide full records of events going back over 20 years.
I have looked at BoSs records and can see there is a clear record of this account closing on 
2 September 2004 with a balance of £208.91. I think that record corresponds to the date on 
the passbook that is recorded as a change of details. I can also see that on 2 September 
2004 £208.91 was transferred into the late Mr Bs account. So, I think on balance it likely that 
Mr B closed his passbook account and the remaining balance was transferred to his current 
account. And that it likely that his passbook was not updated with that or any other 
transaction after the last interest payment. I also think it likely that if Mr B was expecting 
more money paid into his account then he would have noticed that and raised the issue with 
BoS at the time. But I think all of the evidence I have seen leads me to conclude the correct 
amount of money was transferred.
I appreciate BoS has raised the possibility that a mistake may have been made about an 
ISA. But I dont think I need to comment on that or can do so. I think the important point is 
that although a newly discovered passbook may on the face of it show a balance, that 
doesnt automatically mean that money remains in an account for the reasons I have 
explained.
Overall, I find on balance that BoS has fairly provided an explanation about the whereabouts 
of this money and based on the evidence I have seen, Im satisfied the account was closed 
in September 2004 and the money transferred to Mr B. For those reasons I cant fairly order 
BoS to take any further action in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and the 
estate of Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman