DRN-4052946
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with several aspects of the service she received from Bank of Scotland 
plc, trading as Halifax, surrounding the closure of a childs account she held with them.
What happened
Mrs B had three childrens accounts with Halifax, but in November 2022 she noticed that one 
of the accounts was no longer visible to her. Mrs B asked Halifax about this and was told 
that shed closed the account herself in 2021. Mrs B hadnt closed the account herself and 
she wasnt happy with the service shed received from the Halifax staff member shed 
spoken with. So, she raised a complaint.
Halifax responded to Mrs B and explained that theyd closed the account in September 2021 
after notifying Mrs B in writing that the account was considered as dormant, and that theyd 
transferred the balance of the account  £23.27  to another of Mrs Bs accounts at that 
time. And Halifax confirmed that they didnt feel they acted unfairly by doing so.
However, Halifax did acknowledge that Mrs B hadnt received the standard of service she 
was entitled to expect when questioning this matter with them, including regarding how shed 
been spoken to by their staff member. Halifax apologised to Mrs B for this and made a 
payment of £70 to her as compensation for any trouble and upset this may have caused. 
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response to Mrs Bs 
complaint that Halifax had issued  including the explanation of what had happened and the 
apology and payment of £70 compensation for the service issues  already represented a 
fair outcome to what had happened. Mrs B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Halifax have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
I feel that there are two aspects to this complaint that are largely separate from one another. 
The first is whether it was fair for Halifax to close Mrs Bs account in September 2021 as 
they did. And the second is regarding the service Mrs B received from Halifax when she 
contacted them about the account in November 2022.
Halifax have explained that Mrs Bs account was closed in September 2021 because of their 
dormancy account monitoring process. This is a process whereby Halifax, like many banks, 
consider accounts as being dormant when certain criteria are met. In Halifaxs case, they 
consider an account as being potentially dormant when the account hasnt been used for 24 
months and when the account has a balance of less than £25.
Because Mrs Bs account met these criteria, Halifax sent a templated letter to her which 
explained that her account was considered as being dormant and would be closed unless 
Mrs B contacted them to request that it stayed open before a set date. 
Unfortunately, Halifax havent been able to evidence exactly when the templated letter was 
sent to Mrs B. But given that Halifaxs process here involves the sending of a templated 
letter, I feel that its more likely than not that one was sent, and that it was sent to Mrs B 
sometime before 20 July 2021. This is because Mrs B made a transfer into the account of £5 
on that date  as well as a further £10 credit on 23 September  meaning that from 20 July, 
the account no longer met the criteria as being unused for 24 months for Halifaxs account 
dormancy process to begin.
However, Halifax have confirmed that once the account dormancy process has begun, as it 
did, small credits to the account such as Mrs B made wouldnt be sufficient to stop the 
closure of the account. Instead, as per the account dormancy letter, Mrs B would have 
needed to contact Halifax and specifically confirm to them that she wanted the account to 
remain open. But Halifax have no record of being contacted by Mrs B as was needed, and 
so I dont feel that Halifax acted unfairly by closing the account and transferring the balance 
of £23.27 to another of Mrs Bs accounts as they did.
Mrs B may explain that she didnt receive any such account dormancy letter from Halifax in 
2021 and may argue that, while I may feel its likely that Halifax did send such a letter, 
theres no evidence which confirms that Halifax did actually do so. But the sending of 
templated letters isnt always recorded by businesses such as Halifax, and I do feel that its 
more likely than not that one was sent. 
Additionally, even if Halifax didnt send a letter, I dont feel that Mrs B has incurred any loss 
or detriment here such that the closure of the account should be considered unfair. I say this 
because the account clearly wasnt used by Mrs B for a prolonged period and only had a 
balance of £23.27 when it was closed  £15 of which had been credited to the account by 
Mrs B in the previous few months. 
Halifax have been able to demonstrate to my satisfaction that this £23.27 balance was 
transferred by them to another of Mrs Bs accounts on 29 September 2021. And, if Mrs B 
would like an account like the one that was closed in September 2021, I dont feel that its 
unfair that she should be asked to apply for a new account of a similar type at this time.
In regard to the service aspect of Mrs Bs complaint, Halifax have acknowledged that Mrs B 
didnt receive an acceptable standard of service from the agent she spoke with in November 
2022, including that she wasnt given correct information as to why her account had been 
closed and in how their agent spoke to her. And Halifax have apologised to Mrs B for this 
and have made a payment of £70 to her as compensation for any upset or inconvenience 
this poor service may have caused.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, and Im aware that Mrs B feels a much higher 
compensation amount should be merited in this instance. But, having considered what 
happened, I feel that the £70 already paid to Mrs B by Halifax is a fair compensation amount 
here, and I can confirm its commensurate with what I may have instructed Halifax to pay to 
Mrs B in this regard, had they not already done so. In taking this position Ive considered the poor service that Mrs B experienced when 
speaking with Halifaxs agent and the impact it had on her both emotionally and in how she 
had to further chase this matter with Halifax. And Ive considered these events with the 
broad framework which this service uses to assess compensation amounts for upset and 
inconvenience in mind  further details of which can be found on this services website. And, 
having done so, I feel that £70 is a fair compensation amount here. 
All of which means that I feel the response that Halifax have already issued to Mrs Bs 
complaint  including the explanation as to why her account was closed and the payment of 
£70 compensation for the service issues she experienced  does represent a fair outcome to 
whats happened here. And as such, I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Halifax to do anything more. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs B was wanting, but I hope shell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman