DRN-2481257
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Experian Limited (Experian) continued to charge him for his 
CreditExpert subscription after he made it aware he wished to cancel the subscription. He is 
also unhappy with the service he was provided.
What happened
Mr H had a CreditExpert subscription with Experian which he signed up for on 
21 November 2019. Mr H says that in January 2020, he wrote to Experian and sent an email 
clearly stating he wished to cancel his subscription. However, in March 2020 he noticed he 
had been charged for his subscription in February and March despite cancelling it in 
January. 
Mr H contacted Experian on 4 March 2020 to query this. During this call Mr H says he 
advised it that he had sent a letter and an email in January 2020 to cancel his subscription. 
Having checked the system, the representative told Mr H it hadnt received his request. 
Experian could see that Mr H hadnt logged into his account for some time (with the 
exception of 4 March 2020) so it agreed to refund Mr H £14.99 (one months subscription) as 
a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr H remained unhappy and asked to be transferred to a manager, he also asked what a 
managers compensation limit was. Mr H says he was provided with incorrect information 
and was under the impression the manager who he was transferred to would be authorising 
a refund. However, the manager explained that only one payment of £14.99 would be 
refunded as there was no record of receiving a request to cancel the subscription. Mr H 
explained that he was advised a manager would be offering compensation. The manager 
apologised for this, but her offer remained the same.
Mr H remained unhappy and asked for a formal complaint to be raised. He also sent a copy 
of the email he sent in January, to the Chief Executive. Experian issued its final response. It 
apologised for the conflicting information provided during the phone call regarding 
compensation, and explained that £14.99 had been refunded to Mr H. However, it said it 
wouldnt be refunding the full amount or paying compensation. 
Mr H remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Prior to our investigator 
issuing his opinion on the case, Experian submitted its summary of events. In this email it 
said, originally it hadnt done anything wrong by continuing to charge Mr H for his 
subscription, as it hadnt received his request to cancel it. However, once it had been made 
aware of Mr Hs intention to cancel it felt it should have refunded him the remaining £14.99 
and apologised for the error it has caused.
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint and in summary said Experian had no record 
of receiving a cancellation request from Mr H when he originally contacted it. This was due 
to Mr H sending the email to an unmanned inbox. And there was no information in Mr Hs 
email which would enable Experian to link this request to his account. However, he went on 
to say that once Experian received a copy of the email Mr H sent, it should have refunded 
the further payment of £14.99 as Mr H had originally requested. Our investigator went on to 
say:
this is in line with what I would expect
Regarding the misleading information Mr H says he was provided during the telephone call 
on 4 March 2020, our investigator felt this had been cleared up the same day during the 
telephone conversation with the manager. As such he didnt feel any further compensation 
was warranted. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He felt there were many factual 
inaccuracies. Mr H said the investigator suggested that Experian offered a refund as soon as 
it became aware of the email in November 2020. But this was inaccurate as Experian was 
aware of Mr Hs email in March 2020 and didnt offer a refund at that point.
Mr H was also unhappy that the investigator said there was nothing in the content of the 
email which Mr H sent to Experian in January 2020 to help it locate it to Mr Hs account. And 
that the inbox Mr H sent the email to was unmanned. However, Mr H has said this is also not 
true, as the email clearly shows his details were included and there was nothing in the email 
to suggest the inbox was unmanned.
Mr H is very unhappy as he feels the investigator made factual inaccuracies and feels 
Experian should offer £50 for the trouble and upset it had caused. So, Mr Hs complaint has 
now been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why. 
Request to cancel
I can see that on 23 November 2019 an automated email was sent to Mr H from Experian. 
Mr H used this email address when he contacted Experian on 13 January 2020 to request to 
cancel his subscription. As the email address was used to send automated emails, it is 
reasonable to assume Experians version of events (that the inbox was unmanned) is highly 
likely. As such, Experian, at the time were unaware Mr H wished to cancel his subscription 
and continued to charge him, which I don think is unreasonable.
I appreciate that Mr H says there wasnt anything to alert him to the fact this inbox was 
unmanned. But having looked at Experians website under how do I cancel my Experian 
paid subscription I can see that it does provide options on how to cancel. I note Mr H didnt 
cancel his subscription via either of the methods outlined on the website under this section. I 
appreciate Mr H also sent a letter to Experian in January 2020 requesting to cancel his 
subscription. Experian has said, it is unable to locate the letter. So, while I dont dispute 
Mr Hs version of events, I cant for certain that Experian did receive the letter and as such I 
cant hold Experian responsible for the potential failings of the postal service.
Experian were unable to identify Mr H
Mr H is unhappy that Experian has said it was unable to link the email he sent in January to 
an account it held, as the names differed on the email to the name on the account. However, having reviewed the email, this isnt the case. Mr Hs email address is clearly visible on the 
email and as such, Experian could have located his account from this email. However, as 
the inbox wasnt manned regardless of the information contained within the email, Experian, 
wouldnt have been aware Mr H wished to cancel his subscription prior to March 2020.
When Experian became aware Mr H wished to cancel his subscription  
When Mr H became aware he was still paying for his subscription, despite requesting for it to 
be cancelled he called Experian to resolve the issue. As Mr H was unhappy with the 
resolution offered (a refund of one months subscription) he sent his original email to 
Experians Chief Executive. I have seen evidence to show that Experians customer relation 
team and the Chief Executive received this email. As such, I agree with Mr H that Experian 
was made aware from 4 March 2020 that Mr H had sent a request to cancel his subscription 
in January 2020. 
I understand that Mr H is frustrated that our investigator originally said Experian should have 
refunded him the full amount as soon as it became aware, but later removed that wording 
from his opinion. However, the case has now been passed to me to consider. I agree with Mr 
H that Experian was aware in March 2020 and should have refunded Mr H the full amount at 
that point. But, when Experian sent us its version of events alongside its business file, it 
admitted it had made an error and should have refunded Mr H the full amount (Totalling 
£29.98). And, this is in line with what I would have asked Experian to do if it hadnt done so 
already. 
I appreciate Mr H is unhappy as he had to refer the complaint to our service before Experian 
agreed to refund him the further £14.99, and so he feels Experian should pay him 
compensation. However, it is not for our service to fine or punish a business for any failings. 
And while I accept Mr H feels he has been inconvenienced by having to bring his complaint 
to our service, I am not satisfied that warrants compensation  partly because all complaints 
come with some level of inconvenience. I appreciate Experian made an error, but I am 
satisfied, from the information I have seen, that Experian has now rectified the matter, and 
this is in line with what I would have asked Experian to do if it had not done so already.
Customer service 
I have listened to the call Mr H had with the customer advisor and the manager on 
4 March 2020. Mr H says he was told by the advisor that the manager (he was being passed 
to) had the ability to refund a much higher amount than the £14.99 he had just authorised. It 
appears, from listening to the conversation that followed, Mr H was under the impression this 
meant he would be refunded a higher amount. However, having listened to the call, I am 
satisfied the advisor said the manager was authorised to refund a higher amount, but he 
didnt say she would be authorising a higher amount. In any event, even if Mr H was under 
the impression the manager would be refunding the full amount, once the call was passed to 
the manager, she clarified the position. So, I wont be asking Experian to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman