DRN-3517246
The complaint
Miss M complains that BPO Collections Limited contacted her about someone elses debt.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Another business (C) appointed BPO to act as debt collectors in relation to an account it 
owned. BPO completed a tracing exercise that identified Miss M as the potential borrower. 
BPO says it used information from the credit reference agencies to trace Miss M, but the 
results it obtained showed a disparity in the date of birth noted.
Miss M contacted both C and BPO to explain she wasnt the borrower. Miss M has also 
explained she contacted the Police, Action Fraud and raised complaints with both C and 
BPO. Miss M has confirmed she received Cs final response but didnt receive anything 
from BPO in response to her complaint. BPO says it issued a final response on 4 May 
2021 by email. In Cs final response, it said BPO had traced Miss Ms details. C confirmed 
it wasnt reporting any information on Miss Ms credit file and recalled the account from 
BPOs management.
Miss M referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator upheld Miss Ms complaint and said BPO shouldve done more to establish it 
had traced the correct individual before contacting Miss M. The investigator also said the 
date of birth discrepancy shouldve shown something had gone wrong and caused BPO to 
consider carry out further checks. BPO agreed to pay Miss M £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Miss M asked to appeal and said she hadnt received an apology or final response from 
BPO. Miss M also said she wasnt confident the email BPO had provided to show it sent a 
final response was genuine. Miss M highlighted that BPO had ignored data returned when 
it carried out the trace and unfairly made contact with her. Miss M asked for the length of 
time shes spent dealing with this issue to be considered and explained she felt the 
compensation award should be increased.
As Miss M asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss M has serious concerns about BPOs actions which led to her being 
contacted about a debt that wasnt hers. BPO has provided evidence to show what it found 
when a tracing exercise was completed. As the investigator said, the results showed a date 
of birth difference in the information found. I agree this shouldve caused BPO to either 
carry out further investigations or check with its client concerning how to proceed. Instead 
BPO contacted Miss M and its clear this has caused her a reasonable level trouble and 
upset.
I think Miss M makes a reasonable point when she talks about the number of organisations 
involved. Miss M has explained she contacted BPOs client and complained. Miss M also 
contacted the Police and Action Fraud. Miss M has explained she also contacted the credit 
reference agencies and submitted queries to check whether shed been the victim of fraud. 
In addition to the above, Miss M also complained to BPO in order to find out why it had 
written to her. Im satisfied there was a reasonable level of inconvenience caused to Miss 
M in this case.
I think its fair to also consider the level of distress the trace caused Miss M. Its clear Miss 
M was very concerned that shed been the victim of fraud and took swift measures to find 
out what had happened. Whilst I understand that isnt the case, its clear Miss M was 
distressed by BPOs actions. Im satisfied Miss M the impact of the incorrect trace on Miss 
M was significant.
Miss M has questioned whether the final response was emailed to her as BPO claims. I 
note Miss Ms comments about the font, but Im satisfied BPO did issue a final response as 
it says. The copy weve seen was forwarded by BPO to our investigator and appears 
genuine. I dont know why it wasnt received by Miss M at the time, but Im satisfied it was 
most likely sent as claimed.
Im not persuaded the existing settlement of £200 fairly reflects the level of distress and 
inconvenience caused to Miss M. Based on the information Ive seen to date, I intend to 
increase the settlement from £200 to £400. In my view, that figure more fairly reflects what 
happened and how it affected Miss M.
I asked both parties to respond with any additional comments they wanted to make. BPO 
sent us an email that said it is no longer dealing with the account. Miss M told us she was 
willing to accept the provisional decision but that BPO had sent her another letter explaining 
the account had been returned to its client. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss M received another letter from BPO. It sent us a similar email that 
confirms the account in question is no longer in its control. That should mean Miss M 
receives no further collections contact from BPO. 
Whilst BPO has returned the account to its client, that doesnt change the background to this 
complaint or the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Miss Ms 
complaint should be upheld and that BPO should pay her an increased settlement of £400, 
for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Ds complaint and direct BPO Collections Limited to pay 
her a total of £400 (less any compensation already paid). Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman