DRN-3517036
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly turned down her business 
interruption insurance claim. 
What happened
Mrs P held business interruption insurance with AXA. She claimed on her policy after her 
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
AXA turned down Mrs Ps claim. It said the interruption to her business wasnt as a result of 
damage and while the policy covered a specified list of diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the 
diseases covered. 
Unhappy with AXAs response, Mrs P brought her complaint to our service. She thought her 
claim should be paid under the extension for murder, suicide or disease because her 
business had been closed due to a defect in its sanitary arrangements. She said the 
definition of sanitary included measures for the protection of health and her business had 
been closed to protect her customers health. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ps complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he 
didnt think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of the claim. 
Mrs P disagreed with the outcome reached by our investigator and provided a detailed 
response. She thought AXA were relying on technicalities of the policy to turn down the 
claim and said that the close contact required with customers is a defect in the sanitary 
arrangements. Mrs P said her industry wasnt able to reopen as early as some others at the 
end of lockdown and that the requirement for additional protective equipment demonstrated 
a defect in how her business could operate. Mrs P asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mrs Ps business. However, I wont be upholding her complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. I appreciate that Mrs P thinks AXA are 
able to rely on technicalities, however, what is and isnt covered is set out in the policy terms 
and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if AXA have 
acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when declining      
Mrs Ps claim.
Im going to focus my decision on the clause in the policy for closure as a result of a defect in 
sanitary arrangements, as that seems to be the issue in dispute here. However, for 
completeness, I would add that I havent seen anything in the rest of Mrs Ps policy which 
would provide cover for her claim. 
The relevant extension in Mrs Ps policy says:
We will pay you for interruption of or interference with the business during the 
indemnity period following
5. the closing of the whole or part of your premises by order of a competent     
public authority as a result of a defect in the drains or other sanitary 
arrangements at your premises.
For this extension to provide cover there needs to have been a defect in relevant sanitary 
arrangements at Mrs Ps premises, which has led to the action of the relevant authority. 
I understand that Mrs P considers that the defect in her businesss sanitary arrangements is 
that close contact is required with customers. I think that a defect inherently involves some 
element of deficiency or fault and I havent seen anything to persuade me that close contact 
with customers should be considered a defect or fault. 
I understand that Mrs Ps industry wasnt allowed to reopen as early as some others, but 
Im not persuaded that the normal operation of a business can be called a defect. I also 
havent been provided with any evidence to suggest it was the circumstances relating to 
Mrs Ps businesss sanitary arrangements in particular that led to the Governments 
decision to introduce the restrictions it did in March 2020. So, I dont think Mrs Ps business 
was closed as a result of a defect in the sanitary arrangements and therefore this extension 
doesnt provide cover for her claim. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome Mrs P was hoping for given the considerable impact 
the restrictions had on her business but, having considered the matter very carefully, I 
cant fairly require AXA to pay Mrs Ps claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman