DRN-3816160
Complaint
Mr B complains that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) unfairly 
charged him too much to settle a loan in April 2022.
Background
Mr B was provided with a loan for £11,000.00 in February 2021. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £369.96. In April 2022, after having made 13 of the 60 
payments, Mr B contacted Everyday Loans to settle his loan. Everyday Loans told Mr B that 
he needed to pay £10,364.54 to settle his balance in full. Although unhappy with the 
settlement figure quoted, Mr B repaid his loan and then complained to Everyday Loans 
about the amount he had to pay and that the loan was unaffordable to begin with.
Everyday Loans didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said that it considered the loan to be 
affordable and that it correctly calculated Mr Bs settlement figure using a formula based on 
the outstanding capital and the remaining loan term.
One of our investigators looked at Mr Bs complaint and didnt think that it should be upheld. 
In his view, the loan was affordable at the outset and the amount Mr B had to pay to settle 
his loan early was correctly calculated. Mr B accepted that the loan was affordable at the 
outset but he still disputed that the amount he was asked to pay to clear the loan in           
April 2022 was correct and asked for an ombudsman to consider this part of the complaint. 
So Mr Bs case was passed to an ombudsman as per Mr Bs request. 
As Mr B has accepted our investigators conclusions in relation to the affordability of the 
loan, this decision is only looking at Mr Bs concerns relating to the amount he was asked to 
pay to settle his loan in April 2022.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
Did Everyday Loans charge Mr B too much to settle his loan in February 2022?
Section 94 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 allows a borrower to settle a regulated credit 
agreement  such as Mr Bs agreement with Everyday Loans - and discharge their 
indebtedness early. And where a consumer requests to settle a credit agreement early, like 
Mr B requested to do here, the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 (the 
regulations) set out how a lender should work out what the customer needs to pay in order 
to settle the amount outstanding.
Section 5 of the regulations allows a lender to calculate a settlement for (and valid until) a 
date 28 days after the request for a settlement figure was made. And interest would be 
charged for this 28-day period. Furthermore, if the agreement in question has a term for 
longer than a year, like Mr Bs five year agreement did, section 6 of the regulations allows 
the lender to defer the settlement date, for the purposes of calculating an interest rebate, by 
a further 30 days. 
Therefore, as Mr Bs request was a request to settle an agreement which had an original 
term of longer than one year, early, the regulations permitted Everyday Loans to charge 
interest for a period of 58 days from the date of the settlement request. 
Its also important to note that all loans  irrespective of whether interest is added upfront or 
on a daily basis - are based on an amortisation schedule where each instalment is made up 
of some of the interest and charges and some of the capital advanced. And on more 
expensive loans  such as Mr Bs - the higher interest rate usually means that even though a 
monthly payment may appear relatively large - in proportion to the amount borrowed - a 
much smaller proportion of this payment goes to repaying the capital in the early stages.
So many consumers in Mr Bs position may believe that theyve paid off more of their loan 
than they have due to the cash amount of the total payments made, because theyre 
unaware of the way that their loan would be amortised and a large proportion of the early 
payments were going towards the interest. And on top of this Mr B faced around 58 days 
interest (because of the initial term of the loan) at an APR of 37% being added to an 
unexpectedly larger outstanding capital balance.
It isnt in dispute that Mr B had made 13 payments of £369.69 totalling £4,809.48 by the time 
he requested his early settlement quote. But £3,645.90 of Mr Bs payments went towards the 
interest that had accrued during this period. This meant that only £1,163.58 went towards 
repaying the £11,000.00 Mr B initially borrowed. And when Mr B requested to pay off his 
outstanding balance, Mr B still owed Everyday Loans £9,836.42. 
As Ive explained, Everyday Loans was entitled to add a further 58 days interest to this 
outstanding amount under the regulations and this is what accounts for the extra £528.12 
that Mr B was asked to pay. So Im satisfied that Everyday Loans didnt charge Mr B too 
much to settle his loan.
Should Everyday Loans have provided Mr B with more detailed explanation of the early 
settlement terms for his loan?
I can understand why Mr B is unhappy and why he might believe that there was a mistake 
given he paid a total of £4,174.02 in interest when the loan only ran a year and despite only 
£11,197.60 only being due over the whole five-year term. But the reason for this is that 
interest isnt added proportionally. Its added to the outstanding amount owed and a 
customer will always pay more interest in the earlier part of a loan term because thats when 
the amount owed is at its highest. 
I also appreciate that Mr B believes that these early settlement provisions should have been 
made clearer to him at the time he took out his loan. However, I have to consider this in 
relation to what was known in February 2021 and without the hindsight of Mr Bs actions in 
April 2022. 
In considering this matter Ive kept in mind that Everyday Loans calculated Mr Bs settlement 
figure in line with the way that most lenders calculate a early settlement figure. So I dont 
think Everyday Loans reliance on the regulations was a feature of Mr Bs agreement which 
resulted in it operating in a way that was significantly differently from others generally 
available on the market. And, in these circumstances, I dont think that simply highlighting 
that an early settlement figure would be calculated in accordance with the regulations would have made Mr B aware of the position he found himself in when he wanted to settle his loan 
in February 2022.
That said, while the settlement terms on this loan didnt differ too much from other loans on 
the market, I might nonetheless have expected Everyday Loans to do more to highlight that 
the interest rate for Mr Bs loan may have made it unsuitable for someone who would be 
looking to settle the balance early in the term. However, Id only expect a lender to 
specifically highlight a matter such as this where this was clearly important to a customer  
at the time  and in circumstances where the lender was aware this was a realistic prospect.
And having looked through the significant amount of documentation from the time, I havent 
seen anything to suggest that Everyday Loans ought to have been aware that Mr B would 
even settle his loan early, let alone only around a year or so after taking it out. Indeed, given 
Mr B has said that he settled the loan when he did because his financial position improved, I 
dont think that settling the loan in April 2022 was in his contemplation when Mr B originally 
took the loan out in February 2021. 
So its difficult for me to say that this is a matter that Everyday Loans ought to have kept in 
mind and when agreeing to lend, in any event, I cant reasonably conclude that a warning 
the loan may not be suitable for a borrower looking to settle their balance in full a year down 
the line, would have made a difference to Mr Bs decision to go ahead with it in the first 
place. And so I dont think that Everyday Loans failed to provide Mr B with information that it 
ought to have done or that such information would have made a difference here anyway.   
Overall I dont think that Everyday Loans charged Mr B too much to settle his loan. And I 
dont think it failed to provide an explanation that it ought to have and which would more 
likely than not have made a difference to Mr Bs decision to agree to this loan in the first 
place. As this is the case, I dont think that Everyday Loans treated Mr B unfairly or 
unreasonably and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr B. But I hope that Mr B will understand the reasons for my decision and 
that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman