DRN-4045216
The complaint
T, a limited company, has complained Starling Bank Limited wont refund money they lost 
from their account as the result of a scam.
T are represented in their complaint by Mr W.
What happened
Mr W holds both a personal and business account (in the name of T) with Starling. The 
personal account is the subject of a separate complaint.
In 2022 Mr W received a call from someone stating they were from his bank, Starling. He 
was told a payment hed made thinking it was genuine had been increased by fraudsters and 
that his phone had been compromised by spyware. 
Mr W was immediately reassured that the call came from his actual bank as the person he 
was talking too seemed calm and thorough. At the same time he was extremely concerned 
about losing any money from his account. He was told hed need to take action to ensure his 
money was kept safe. Mr W was working outside (as T) and was distracted by the noise and 
the stress of what was happening.
Mr W then followed the instructions he was given to authorise four transactions. At the same 
time Mr W was being told who was actually trying to compromise him  a cryptocurrency 
company (who Ill call B). He understood that the payments to B would enable Starling to 
trace the payments and provide evidence against B, who Mr W believed were the 
scammers.
After Mr W was unable to get Starling back on the call using the number that had called him, 
Mr W realised something was wrong. He got in touch with Starling and asked them to refund 
T's account. They told him they wouldnt do so as theyd authorised the payments, not 
exercised sufficient caution and these payments werent subject to the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model code for authorised push payments.
Mr W brought Ts complaint to the ombudsman service. 
Our investigator noted Starling had provided no warnings to Mr W despite these transactions 
being of a high value and out of character for Ts account use.
She asked Starling to refund the payment made from Ts account, along with 8% simple 
interest for the time period T was without his money.
Starling disagreed with this outcome. They felt Mr W should be at least partially liable for the 
transaction as hed not sufficiently challenged the person on the phone. Theyve asked an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that T (well, Mr W) made and authorised the payment. Mr W knew the 
reasons why he was being asked to make the card payments. At the stages he was making 
the payment, he believed he was taking urgent action to keep Ts money safe and assist 
Starling. He believed once this had been done, hed be able to get Ts money back as hed 
been reassured there was a bank insurance scheme to protect his money.
I dont dispute T was scammed but under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Im 
satisfied the transaction was authorised.
Its also accepted that Starling has an obligation to follow Ts instructions. So in the first 
instance T is presumed liable for their loss. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Starling 
should:
have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Mr W fell victim to a sophisticated scam. Unfortunately safe account scams  which is what 
this was  are not massively unusual. Mr W realises how this happened as he responded to 
a fake message supposedly from the NHS. This allowed fraudsters to know Mr W had 
accounts with Starling and meant they could tailor their approach to him and make it 
believable. 
I know Starling have said theyd have expected Mr W to undertake some checks to ensure 
who was calling him was genuine. I disagree. I dont think this takes into account the stress 
that can be caused by these types of calls, and the panic theyre meant to engender in the 
people who receive them. Particularly when I take into account Mr Ws personal 
circumstances.
The fraudster was also able to explain in detail how Mr W should make the payment and 
direct him to the relevant aspects within Starlings app which helped to gain his trust. 
Starling has confirmed they do have mechanisms in place to check unusual transactions, but 
Mr W wasnt doing anything sufficiently unusual to trigger any warnings.
However I find this surprising. Mr W by making a transfer from Ts account to his personal 
account, then a further payment from Ts account emptied this account. Ts account held a 
substantial balance before the scam. This should have been sufficient for Starling to have taken action as these activities strike me as unusual.
I have taken into account that Mr W was presented with a warning stating that Starling would 
never contact him and ask him to use the specific screens. However by this time Mr W was 
convinced he was talking to his genuine bank so didnt see anything wrong in doing what he 
did. 
Theres no record of any similar card payments on Ts account within the preceding six 
months. Any larger value payments from that account were set up as regular online 
transactions. I dont believe any argument that this reflects Ts normal payment behaviour 
would stack up.
For these reasons I believe Starling should have undertaken additional steps to intervene at 
the time the payment of £4,900 was successfully authorised. Financial institutions are able to 
block card payments, and this is the step Id have expected Starling to have taken here. This 
would have brought what was happening to an end as Im sure if Ts card had been blocked, 
the fraudsters would have come off of the phone immediately.
As I say, safe account scams are not unusual. All banks are aware of how these operate. 
The use of a card to send payments to a money transfer service or as here, a cryptocurrency 
company, is particularly prevalent. This limits banks ability to send messages which can be 
done when customers are making online transactions.
Putting things right
As I believe any intervention Starling should have made would have changed what 
happened here, I am going to ask them to refund the disputed payment Mr W made from Ts 
account. They will also need to add 8% simple interest to that amount. The money Mr W 
transferred from Ts account to his personal account is covered by the resolution to the other 
complaint in Mr Ws name.
This has had a massive impact on Mr W, shattering his confidence and impacting his ability 
over the last year to participate in important family events. Im really sorry that this is so. 
Unfortunately this complaint is set up in the name of T and there is no provision to provide 
additional compensation to business entities for distress.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct Starling Bank Limited to:
Refund £4,900 to T;
Add 8% simple interest from 18 February 2022 to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman