DRN-1591329
The complaint
Mr D has complained that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when he opened a store credit card in September 1999. 
What happened
Mr D took out his store card ending 2596 in September 1999 whilst he was in store. At the 
same time, he was sold a PPI policy associated with the credit card account. Mr D has 
complained that the PPI was mis-sold but AXA hasnt upheld his complaint. 
Mr D wasnt happy with AXAs response, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said that they thought the PPI was mis-sold and recommended Mr Ds 
complaint should be upheld.
AXA didnt agree with that recommendation and asked for an ombudsman to consider the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy was mis-sold and shall explain why.
Mr D took out his credit card and the PPI in store. AXA has provided a copy of the 
application form that Mr D completed. 
I can see there is a section on the form headed Protecting Your Account. This contains the 
following statement: Yes I want to protect my Account with Account Cover (subject to 
eligibility). Please debit my account with the relevant premium until further notice.
I cannot be certain what, if any additional information would have been provided at the time 
in store to Mr D when he was completing the form for the credit card application. I think it 
unlikely the store assistant would have provided any detail about PPI.
Looking at the form and the information I can see was provided, I think Mr D should have 
been aware that he had a choice about taking out the PPI and he signed to say he wanted it. 
The fact he signed separately to indicate he wanted the cover, but crossed through other 
types of cover available, makes me think Mr D knew this was an optional policy. But I am not 
persuaded that Mr D was provided with adequate information about the policy to make an 
informed decision to take it out. The only information provided on the form was that Mr D had to meet eligibility criteria. From 
the information provided by Mr D he did meet the basic criteria and so was eligible for the 
policy, even though he wasnt informed of the criteria at the point of sale.
AXA has told us that full information would have been sent in the post to Mr D. But that 
information was needed at the point of sale to enable Mr D to make an informed decision 
whether to take out the PPI or not. He agreed to take out the policy when he signed the 
application form to select it.
I cannot see that Mr D was given any information about the cost and the benefits of the 
policy at the point he took it out. The application form merely stated any premium would be 
charged to his account. But there was nothing to indicate the level of the premium or the 
level of benefits that could be paid or any restrictions on the benefits. 
Mr D has also told us that he wanted to keep his outgoing costs down. And I dont think it 
was clear to him from the application form how much the premiums may be or that interest 
would be paid on any premiums charged to his account if he didnt clear his balance.
There was also no information that the policy may be subject to restrictive conditions, such 
as claims for pre-existing medical conditions. Mr D did have a pre-existing medical condition 
that would have affected any claim that he may have wanted to make connected with this 
condition. So this would have affected the benefits available to him under the policy.
Looking at Mr Ds other circumstances, I can see that he had been in the same employment 
for many years and he would have been entitled to good benefits if he had needed to take 
time off sick. Also any redundancy package would have been good. 
At the point of sale AXA had to make sure that Mr D got the information he needed to allow 
him to decide if the PPI was right for him. And I dont think it did provide adequate 
information, or any information, to allow Mr D to understand the cost of and restrictions on 
the PPI policy. 
Because of Mr Ds medical condition, his employment benefits and his need to keep cost to 
a minimum, I dont think he would have taken out the PPI if he had been provided with 
adequate and clear information about the costs and restrictions on the policy, in particular 
relating to medical conditions.
Therefore, taking everything into account, I think better information about the PPI would 
have put Mr D off taking out the cover and so I think the PPI was mis-sold.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding the complaints that the PPI policy was mis-sold. 
So AXA needs to put Mr D as far as possible in the position hed be in if hed not been sold 
any PPI.
Mr D borrowed extra in the months when the PPI premium was added to his account, and he 
paid interest on those premiums when the account wasnt cleared. Mr D needs to get back 
all the extra hes paid for the PPI. 
So AXA should work out what Mr D actually paid for the cost of the PPI, including any 
interest or charges caused by the premiums and it must pay back to Mr D everything he paid 
for the PPI policy. AXA must also work out some compensatory interest for the time Mr D didnt have use of the 
money paid for the PPI. This is worked out on each amount paid for the PPI from the date 
Mr D paid the PPI cost until the date he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year simple.
HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from the 8% compensatory interest 
and AXA must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for 
one. 
My final decision
 For the reasons I have set out, Im upholding this complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold 
to Mr D by AXA France IARD and compensation should be calculated and paid to Mr D as I 
have indicated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman