DRN-2951023
The complaint
Mr D complains that Contis Financial Services Limited (Contis) wont refund payments he 
didnt authorise. 
What happened
In December 2020, Mr D received a landline call from who he thought was his 
internet provider. Hed recently complained to them about some connection issues. 
He recalls them asking for information, such as his sort code, for security. At their 
instruction, he entered a code to allow them access to his computer, at which point 
he was passed to an engineer. He says he was told to turn off his mobile phone in 
case of interference, so the engineer could work on the connection issues. And also 
that hed receive a refund. But when he turned his mobile phone back on after the 
call, he saw confirmation of two payments, for £2,863 and £1,210, which he hadnt 
authorised. He reported this to Contis.  
Contis wouldnt refund Mr D. It said hed been grossly negligent by allowing a third-
party access to his computer, and it believed hed also authorised the one-time 
passcodes (OTPs) sent for the payments. It tried to recall the funds but could only 
recover £2.30. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. Although they couldnt fully corroborate Mr Ds 
version of events  such as his assertion about his phone being off, and potentially 
being hacked  they concluded, on balance, that the payments were unauthorised. 
They considered it likely Mr D was tricked by a convincing scam, and didnt agree 
with Contis that hed been grossly negligent.  
Contis disagreed. It said it had already provided sufficient evidence to document its 
outcome. So the case has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Did Mr D authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Mr D isnt liable for payments he 
didnt authorise, unless he failed with intent or gross negligence to comply with the 
terms of the account or keep his personalised security details safe. 
The account terms set out the steps Mr D (or someone acting with his consent) 
needs to follow to authorise a payment. For the disputed payments, he would have 
needed to log into his online banking by entering his username, passcode, and an 
OTP. Then he would have needed to enter the details to pay the new payee, such as 
the name, sort code, account number and amount. Finally, he would have needed to 
request, then enter, an OTP to authorise each payment. 
Based on what Mr D has told us, its not fully clear how the transactions occurred. 
Ive not seen enough to substantiate that his phone was hacked. But he says he 
didnt authorise the payments. And Contis hasnt disputed this. Given that, and 
having considered the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied  on balance  the 
disputed payments were unauthorised. 
What Mr D has told us doesnt fully explain how the scammer got the information 
needed to complete all these steps. But Im mindful of why, when a consumer has 
been the victim of scam  as Im persuaded Mr D was  we dont always find out 
exactly what happened. The consumer has been tricked, so may have divulged more 
information than theyve realised, or be confused about what they did. And some are 
reluctant to tell us everything due to embarrassment.  
I think Mr D must have given away more information than hes told us about, or 
completed some of these steps. Its not clear how the scammer could have made 
these payments otherwise. But I consider it unlikely he completed all the required 
steps. Its more likely that some steps, such as entering the payment/payee details, 
were completed by the scammer when he gave them access to his computer (for 
another purpose). Given what hes told us, and the actions he took after realising the 
payments had gone through, I dont think he gave the scammer permission to make 
the payments. 
Did Mr D fail, with gross negligence or intent, to comply with the terms of the account or 
keep his personalised security details safe?
I consider it likely that Mr D did fail to keep some of his details safe, but I dont think 
he intentionally failed to comply with this obligation. He was the victim of a scam. 
They tricked him into thinking he was sharing details with his own internet provider, to 
allow them to deal with his connection issues and process a refund. I dont think he 
understood that his actions meant he wasnt keeping his security details safe. 
The main point Contis has made, when refusing to refund Mr D, is that it considers 
him to have been grossly negligent. But in the circumstances, Im not persuaded its 
fair to conclude that Mr D failed to comply with this obligation.
The scammer knew who Mr Ds internet provider was to impersonate, and did so 
when hed complained about connection issues  making the call seem more likely to 
be genuine. Based on his account of the call, such as what was asked and hearing 
the background noise of a call centre, I understand why he was convinced he was 
talking to his internet provider. And why he therefore granted them access to his 
computer. I think lots of people, in that situation, would have thought it reasonable to 
grant access so they could work on the connection issues. 
As mentioned, it does seem likely Mr D shared other details (such as the OTPs). 
Otherwise, its unclear how the scammers could have made these payments. This 
part of the story is less clear. But Im mindful this appears to have been a 
sophisticated and (by luck or knowledge) well-targeted scam. The call was over an 
hour, giving the scammer lots of time to persuade and socially engineer Mr D. There 
were some understandable reasons why he trusted them. Hes also explained that he 
was told hed get a refund. So on balance, I consider it likely that he was tricked into 
divulging these codes without reading the messages fully or realising what they were 
for. It could be that he was tricked into completing some of the necessary steps as 
part of receiving a refund. Ive not seen anything which persuades me its likely he 
did this with the intent to authorise any payments out of his account  or that he 
completed all of the steps. Overall, I dont consider that Mr D was (or ought to have been) alert to an obvious 
risk. I dont think he was so significantly careless that he failed with gross negligence. 
As Ive also found the payments were unauthorised, and that Mr D didnt fail with 
intent, Contis is liable for them. 
Putting things right
Contis Financial Services Limited should refund Mr D the disputed transactions (totalling 
£4,073), less the amount recovered. It should pay 8% simple interest on this amount, from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement. If Contis considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much 
its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
As Ive let Mr D know, Im not awarding compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct 
Contis Financial Services Limited to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman