DRN-3141616
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Ms B. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1995 alongside a store credit account. Ms B 
was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Ms B has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. This is 
because:
The form, which Ms B signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, which you make by 
ticking a box. So I think it likely Ms B understood she had a choice. Its about 25 years 
since the PPI was sold, so it would be very difficult to show if she was told she didnt 
have a choice. 
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for 
Ms Bs individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. It would have been for Ms B to decide whether it was suitable.
However, AXA did need to give Ms B clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what other 
information was given to Ms B, if any. So Ive thought about whether better information 
is likely to have made a difference. But in Ms Bs circumstances at the time, even if 
shed been given all the necessary information, I dont think its likely to have made a 
difference to her decision. I say this because its likely that the PPI beenfits would have 
lasted longer than her employer sick pay, and would have paid out on top of that or any 
redundancy pay. Shes said she didint have savings to fall back on either. Also it 
doesnt look like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the 
policy. So, overall, the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful, and better 
information probably wouldnt have made a difference to whether or not Ms B took the 
PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman