DRN-3122773
The complaint
Mr M complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act), in relation to the 
benefits of a solar panel system which he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
What happened
Mr M is represented by a claims management company (the CMC). In or around May 2016, 
Mr M was contacted by a representative of a company, Ill call P, to talk about purchasing a 
solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After being visited by a 
representative of P, Mr M decided to purchase the system and finance it through a 15-year 
fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In September 2019, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ms behalf under, amongst other things, 
section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr M to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would not cost Mr M anything and would provide a substantial income 
over the lifetime of the system; 
the system is faulty and is underperforming by about 19%; 
Mr M would receive additional energy savings from the other items supplied such as 
boiler control, voltage optimiser and battery storage  although I note that Mr M did 
not have a battery installed as part of his system; 
the income generated would be paid to Mr M on a monthly basis; 
the monthly loan installments would be covered by the savings made on energy bills 
and the FIT payments and the system would pay for itself within 3.5 years; 
Mr M was pressured into entering the agreement; 
no information was given in relation to the cooling-off period; and
Mr M was told that the system required no maintenance over its life span.
Once the complaint had come to us, Shawbrook issued a response and explained that it 
didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr M or that there were any other 
reasons for the claim to be upheld. But it offered £200 for the time that it had taken to give 
Mr M a response to his claim.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr M and found no other reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
It said that Mr Ms FIT statements and energy bills show that hell only make 
£8,899.59 in 20 years which is not enough to cover the finance agreement; 
Mr M relied on the verbal representations made to him and they dont think its 
reasonable for him to look at a 38-page document and realise the system would not 
be self-funding; 
page 2 of the quote sets out that the payback period is 14 years; and
there is a letter from P which explains that the sales representative has been 
severely warned about his future conduct. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr M could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr M and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact, alongside Mr Ms recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.Self-funding
Mr M has alleged that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the benefits of the system and that the payback period would be 3.5 years. Hes 
also said that Ps representative mentioned that it would pay for itself in 3.8 years. Ive 
considered the quote that was provided by P and whether this supports what Mr M has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr M could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Mr M could expect to receive a 
total FIT income in year one of £201.87.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr M could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings are £259.20 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr M, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £738.63. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
The repayments section has three tables set out over 60 months, 120 months and 180 
months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months, as this is the length of the loan that Mr M 
entered with Shawbrook. This table sets out that there are 180 monthly payments of £148.52 
due. And compares the overall expected grand total from the system, averaged over a 
monthly basis, versus the expected loan repayments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr M could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, export Tariff and energy savings, as well as his expected 
contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this clearly shows that the overall income he 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income, and any additional savings, would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that 
he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the benefits over either 
3.5 or 3.8 years.
I appreciate that Mr M has said that these representations were made to him verbally by Ps 
salesman. The solar quotation is clear that if the panels were not funded by a loan, theyd 
likely be paid for over a 14-year period. So, Im afraid that, on the basis of what I understand 
to have been Ps sales process here, I cant conclude that Mr M was more likely than not told 
that what was a total financial commitment of over £27,000, over a 15-year period, could be 
repaid in under four years, where the income and savings were only initially going to be 
around £740 a year. 
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system versus
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing
the two. And I think this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the 
start. I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and monthly loan repayments.
The above said, I do accept that Mr M was told by P that the system would be self-funding 
over a duration of time. 
The estimated performance over 30 years page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over that period. This shows that by year 25, the overall benefits that Mr M 
could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P most likely told Mr M that the system would pay for 
itself by year 25, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, 
and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
So, Ive considered the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr M. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 2,979.64 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Ms FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated around 2,700 kWh a year. This is slightly less than estimated by P at the point of 
sale but is within a reasonable margin  and doesnt appear to be 19% lower as the CMC 
said in its complaint letter.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices and expected annual RPI inflation increase. Im 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these appears fair and reasonable.
P used the Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale. So, this 
may well explain why he hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. That said, prices are currently increasing very significantly, 
so the data may yet turn out to be correct.
As Ive explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available from 
the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to 
have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr M couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr M entered into the contract.
Additional points raised by the CMC
In response to the investigators opinion, the CMC raised some additional points.
The CMC has said that Mr Ms FIT statements and energy bills show that hell only make 
£8,899.59 in 20 years, which isnt enough to cover the finance agreement. 
As Ive said above, given the difference in the actual inflation figures, I think its likely that the 
returns received by Mr M will be less than predicted by P at the point of sale. But I think that 
P based its assumptions on reasonable data and therefore I cant say that its assumptions 
were unfair at the point they were calculated. It is also fair to say that the CMC hasnt 
included any benefits that Mr M will be receiving from the optional extras sold alongside his 
system. These included the heating controls and voltage optimiser. They are a significant 
part of the savings that P predicted and so Im not sure that its fair to say Mr M will only get 
around £9,000 in benefits over 20 years. 
The CMC has explained that the quote details a 14-year payback period and believes that 
this amounts to a misrepresentation. But the quote does detail that this payback period is 
based on the cash purchase price - and if a consumer chooses to purchase the system with 
finance, the payback period would be longer. Mr M has stated that he was told the payback 
period would be 3.5 and 3.8 years in his submissions. But neither of these are mentioned 
anywhere in the paperwork. So, given that Im satisfied that Mr M was provided with the 
paperwork at the time of the sale, I havent found that theres enough evidence to prove that 
Mr M was categorically told that either of these periods would be the payback time for the 
system.
The CMC has provided a letter from P to Mr M apologising for the customer service he 
received from the sales representative. The letter explains that the representative has been 
severely warned about his future conduct and the CMC believe that this shows that there 
were problems with the sale. I have read the letter and it states, Firstly regarding the lack of 
communication you have received from the sales department, I would like to apologise and 
then it explains that he would be warned about his conduct if customers requests are not 
met in the future. So, it appears to me that this warning was given to the sales representative 
for lack of communication, rather than misrepresenting the benefits of the panels.
The CMC has also made allegations that Mr M wasnt told about the cooling-off period, that 
pressure sales tactics were used and that there would be no maintenance for the 25-year life of the panels. The sales documentation does appear to me to contain details of Mr Ms rights 
to cancel the contract. Mr M says that he had at least two meetings with the sales 
representative and asked him additional questions in between those meetings before signing 
up. So, this doesnt indicate to me that there was a pressured sale here. Solar panels are 
also relatively low maintenance, although I accept that the inverter often needs to be 
replaced at some point. I havent seen any evidence that Mr M ever asked about 
maintenance and was given a misleading answer. So again, I cant say that there was a 
misrepresentation here that would entitle him to any redress.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by the parties to this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr M to enter 
into the contract for the system. I have also found no other reason to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint.
The delays to Shawbrook providing a response to Mr Ms claim werent a part of this 
complaint, although I see it has made an offer to pay £200 compensation for those. I would 
expect that offer to remain open to Mr M should he wish to approach Shawbrook to accept it.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint and I wont be requiring that 
Shawbrook Bank Limited needs to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman