DRN-4435171
The complaint
Mr K complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has declined to provide further cover for a 
spinal problem under a personal private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K took out a personal private medical insurance policy on 2 June 2020, on moratorium 
underwriting terms. This meant that AXA wouldnt provide any cover for any condition Mr K 
had had in the five years before the policy was taken out unless hed had a trouble-free 
period for at least two years after the policy began.
On 27 June 2020, Mr K made a claim on the policy for a spinal condition. Mr Ks GP filled-
out a referral form, which stated that Mr K had begun to experience symptoms of the 
condition on 19 June 2020. So AXA authorised the claim and covered the costs of Mr Ks 
consultations with a specialist and spinal surgery, amongst other things.
Subsequently, in late 2022 and early 2023, Mr K began to suffer further pain, in particular, 
suffering persistent left-sided symptoms of associated neck pain and headaches. He 
underwent further consultations with his treating doctor, who felt that Mr K might need a 
further MRI scan.
AXA asked Mr Ks treating doctor for more information about the claim. It noted that the 
evidence indicated Mr K had been in an accident in 2018 and that his spinal pain had 
developed a short while later. The doctor linked the accident and the condition Mr K had and 
was claiming for. So AXA concluded that Mr Ks spinal condition had existed in the five years 
before the policy was taken out. And it didnt think Mr K had had a two-year trouble-free 
period between taking out the policy and his claim. Therefore, it concluded that Mr Ks claim 
was excluded by the moratorium.
So AXA declined to offer further cover for Mr Ks spinal condition from March 2023 onwards. 
However, it told Mr K that it wouldnt be seeking to recover any of the treatment costs it had 
already paid.
Mr K was unhappy with AXAs position and he asked us to look into his complaint. He said 
that he couldnt pay for the MRI scan he needed or to undergo further treatment. He 
considered that AXA was neglecting his care and seeking to stop paying out to its 
customers. He felt that given AXA had already paid for some of his treatment, it had a duty 
of care to him.
Our investigator didnt think AXA had treated Mr K unfairly. Based on the medical evidence, 
she didnt think it had been unreasonable for AXA to conclude that Mr Ks claim was caught 
by the moratorium terms. And so she felt it had been fair for AXA to decline to provide any 
further cover for Mr Ks spinal condition.
Mr K disagreed. In summary, he felt the treating doctors evidence showed that he hadnt 
had symptoms of the spinal condition before taking out the policy  hed simply had 
whiplash. He considered if hed shown symptoms of the spinal condition after the accident in 
2018, hed have been treated for it at that time. And he felt that AXA was hiding behind its 
policy terms to refuse to pay further claims.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr K, I dont think it was unfair for AXA to 
decline to provide further cover for his spinal condition and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Ks policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether I think AXA 
treated him fairly.
First, Ive considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Mr K and AXA. I can see that Mr K took out the policy on 2 June 2020, on a 
moratorium underwriting basis. Page 15 of the Membership handbook sets out what 
moratorium underwriting means and states:
If you joined us on moratorium terms, it means that you wont have cover for treatment of 
medical problems you had in the five years before you joined us until:
 youve been a member for two years in a row, and
 youve had a period of two years in a row, since you joined, that have been trouble-free 
from that condition.
AXA has defined trouble-free as follows:
Trouble-free means that you have not done any of the following for the medical condition 
you need treatment for:
 had a medical opinion from a medical practitioner, including a GP or specialist
 taken medication (including over-the-counter drugs)
 followed a special diet
 had medical treatment
 visited a practitioner, therapist, homeopath, acupuncturist, psychologist, cognitive 
behavioural therapist, optician or dentist.
In my view, AXAs policy terms make it clear that it wont cover any pre-existing medical 
conditions a policyholder has had in the five years prior to taking out the policy, until theyve 
been a member for two consecutive years and have had two consecutive trouble-free-years. 
AXA now considers that Mr Ks spinal condition is excluded by the terms of the moratorium. 
So Ive looked carefully at the available medical evidence to decide whether I think that was 
a fair conclusion for it to draw.
When AXA initially considered Mr Ks claim, in 2020, it relied on the medical form completed 
by Mr Ks GP. This stated that Mr Ks symptoms had begun a few weeks after the policy had 
been taken out. On that basis, I think it was reasonable for AXA to have decided to accept 
Mr Ks claim and to pay for his spinal consultations and surgery.
However, that doesnt mean AXA is obliged to provide ongoing cover for Mr Ks condition indefinitely. 
In January 2023, AXA received further medical evidence from Mr Ks treating doctor. One 
clinic letter was dated June 2022 and included the following:
Diagnosis: 
1. RTA in 2018with trauma to head and left side of body.
4.  Neck pain and arm symptoms mainly left sided;
The treating doctor said:
Since I last reviewed him over a Teams appointment last month, he has gone on to have an 
MRI of his cervical spine in the Upright MRI Scanner
(Mr K) however has the majority of his symptoms on the left side of his neck and shoulder, 
which I suspect is related to his direct trauma to that part of his body during the accident.
A further clinic letter from Mr Ks treating doctor, also dated June 2022, stated:
(Mr K) tells me that about a month after his injury neck pain started to develop and he has 
been scanned previously and known to have some wear and tear in his cervical spine. Initial 
advice from spinal surgery was for conservative management. He feels that however over 
time symptoms are intrusive, preventing him from returning to work and mainly his 
symptoms are intermittent symptoms in his arms, left ulnar distribution and right arm 
globally.
The treating doctors letter also referred to a spinal MRI Mr K had undergone in April 2022.
In March 2023, Mr Ks consultant wrote a further clinic letter stating that they were happy to 
arrange a further MRI for Mr K because he was experiencing left-sided symptoms. The 
diagnoses included the following:
Diagnosis:
1. RTA in 2018 (scooter vs car accident) with trauma to head and left side of body;
2. (Spinal condition) and left more than right arm symptoms with associated neck 
pain and headaches;
4. Pressure type symptoms in the upper cervical spine and occipital discomfort with 
persistent left arm discomfort and headaches.
The consultant also stated:
Since I last spoke to (Mr K) in December he tells me that he has started to develop 
increased neck discomfort in the mid-cervical spine as well as in the suboccipital region 
radiating up into the occipital area. He feels that he has persistent left arm symptoms as he 
had prior to surgery.
I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to have relied on the treating doctors evidence to 
conclude that Mr Ks symptoms had begun shortly after his accident in 2018  which was 
only around two years before the policy was taken out. Nor do I think it was unreasonable for 
AXA to have concluded that Mr K hadnt had a two-year trouble-free period after taking out 
the policy  given hed had an MRI scan within the first two years of policy cover. On that 
basis then, I dont find AXA acted unfairly when it decided that Mr Ks claim fell within the 
scope of the moratorium clause and decided to decline to provide further cover for that 
condition.Following AXAs decision, Mr Ks treating doctor wrote a letter in support of his claim. Ive set 
out what I think are the doctors key points:
I have had a telephone discussion with (Mr K) to clarify the chronology of his symptoms 
related to his neck. He tells [sic]  that although he was involved in a road traffic accident in 
2018, he was assessed and managed at the time for soft tissue whiplash and was 
discharged without any requirement for spinal intervention. The symptoms I have been 
reviewing him for and treating appear to have started in late 2019/2020. It is not certain that 
his symptoms are related to his previous trauma in 2018 and may have been a more recent 
onset. I would be grateful if you could consider his case for ongoing cover.
AXA considered the doctors letter but maintained its position. Ive thought very carefully 
about this. I appreciate that the treating doctor cant say with certainty that Mr Ks symptoms 
are related to the accident in 2018. However, it remains the case that they previously 
indicated that they suspected Mr Ks condition and accident could be related. And the doctor 
has also made reference to Mr Ks symptoms potentially having begun in late 2019. This 
would have been several months before the policy began in June 2020. So even if Mr Ks 
symptoms arent linked to his previous accident, I dont think it was unfair for AXA to have 
concluded that those symptoms likely existed before the policy began. Therefore, I dont 
think it was unfair for AXA to maintain that Mr Ks claim was excluded by the terms of the 
moratorium and to decline to offer further cover his spinal condition.
I sympathise with Mr Ks position, because I appreciate hes told us that he cant afford to 
pay for an MRI or further treatment privately. But I think AXA has treated Mr K fairly and 
reasonably in all of the circumstances. And I find it was reasonably entitled to decline to 
provide any cover for Mr Ks spinal condition after 14 March 2023.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman