DRN-3407304
The complaint
Mrs V has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold her store card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) in 1999.
What happened
Mrs V took out the policy at the same time as applying for the store card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs V disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Vs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs V says that the PPI wasnt discussed and that she thought it was a mandatory part of 
having the store card. 
Ive seen a copy of Mrs Vs store card application form. There was a separate section for PPI 
(known as Account Cover). Within this section there is a signature box, against which is the 
wording: only sign this box if you require Account Cover. Mrs V has signed in the box to 
request PPI.
Ive no doubt that Mrs V has provided her honest recollection of events. However, the sale 
was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if her memory has faded. On balance, I 
think that Mrs V probably decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no 
longer remembers doing so.
AXA needed to provide Mrs V with sufficient information for her to make an informed 
decision about whether or not the policy was right for her. I think Mrs V would have known 
something about the policy  that it would have protected her store card repayments if she 
was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think she 
would have decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it.
Mrs V would have received sick pay from her employer, but the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mrs V would have received full pay 
for. Mrs V had some savings. But having the policy would have meant that she could have 
retained any savings or used them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a 
difficult time. So I think that Mrs V had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it 
at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that AXA could have provided more information about the policy, particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs V wasnt affected by any of those things. For 
example, she didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions that might have been excluded 
under the policy.
As I consider that Mrs V had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont consider 
that further information would have caused her to change their mind. So she is no worse off 
as a result of anything AXA may have done wrong, so theres nothing AXA needs to do to 
put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman