DRN-2195105
The complaint
This complaint is about two regular premium payment protection (PPI) insurance 
policies, taken out in July 1993 and April 1996 to go with mortgage borrowing. 
Mr and Mrs L say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold them both 
policies. They say they never knew they had PPI and also didnt need it. 
What happened
In July 1993 Mr and Mrs L took out a joint mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy which protected their mortgage repayments in the event of one or both of them 
becoming unable to work or losing their job. The cost of this policy was £20.70 per month 
and could have paid £300 per month in the event of a successful claim for up to 
12 months.
Mr and Mrs L kept this cover until April 1996 when they took out a bit more borrowing 
when they bought a new property. They then changed to PPI cover to only cover Mr L. 
The cost of this policy was £14.94 per month and again could have paid £300 in the 
event of a successful claim for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld but Mr and Mrs L 
disagreed and its been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Ive looked at what Mr and Mrs L have told us about the sale which is of course helpful. 
But as with any complaint Ive also borne in mind the possibility that recollections, 
however genuine, are likely to be affected by time. Similarly, there is only limited 
documentation available from both sales. Because of this, my decision is based on the 
balance of probabilities  i.e. whats more likely to have happened, based on what Ive 
seen and what the parties have told me. Ive also used what I know about BoSs 
procedures and how it sold these types of policy. 
Mr and Mrs L told us that they bought both policies in meetings. And BoS has confirmed 
that it made a recommendation that they take out the cover in both instances. That means 
BoS needed to ensure the policies were suitable for their situation. BoS also needed to 
provide enough clear information so Mr and Mrs L could make an informed choice as to 
whether they should buy the policies. 
For both sales, Ive seen evidence taken from BoSs computer system to show that 
the policy was entered and described correctly. And whilst I dont have all the sale 
details and paperwork which ideally I would have liked, I know that as part of this 
process with Mr and Mrs L would be asked questions to check they were eligible for 
the policy and wouldnt have been affected by any of the main policy exclusions.  
On balance, I think this evidence and information is enough for me to me think that 
Mr and Mrs L made the decision to go ahead and take out each of these policies and that 
on each occasion there would have been some level of discussion with the BoS 
representative. As Ive said, I appreciate this may not be something they readily recall  nor 
would I expect them to after so much time. In addition, its likely that Mr and Mrs L would 
have had to authorise the monthly premiums to be drawn from a bank account by way of a 
direct debit or similar method. 
Taken together, this information and evidence is enough for me to me think that 
Mr and Mrs L had made the decision to go ahead and take out each of these policies.
From what Ive seen Mr and Mrs L were eligible for these policies and I havent seen 
anything to suggest they would have been affected by any of the main policy exclusions. 
Ive seen that Mrs L has said she was self-employed but from what Ive seen about her 
work the PPI policy terms wouldnt have put her at any greater disadvantage than 
someone in regular full time employment. 
Mr and Mrs L told us about their employer benefits if they werent able to work. Mr L 
told us he would have received good employer benefits of at least 6 months at full 
pay. He also had a good level of savings. But that doesnt necessarily mean the 
policies werent of use to them. Each of these policies would have paid out for up to 
12 months in the event of a successful claim. And in the event that one or both of 
them had to make a claim, having the policy would have meant they most probably 
wouldnt have to dig into their existing savings. 
I think each of these two mortgages would have been a significant financial 
commitment over an extended period. Policies like this are designed to offer 
protection in financially difficult times and they would have provided Mr and Mrs L with 
cover over and above any other protection they had elsewhere. So, given their 
situation, I think the concept of protecting themselves with cover like this could be 
viewed as a worthwhile and sensible precaution.
Mr and Mrs L have queried whether the PPI was expensive. I think the monthly premiums 
- given the type and number of protections each policy offered - were comparable with 
similar products marketed at around the time they were sold. Also, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that the monthly cost of the cover was unaffordable for them.
I also think its likely that for each sale they would have been given a policy document 
which explained details of the cover and how to claim. And even if I cant be sure that 
everything happened in the way it should have done, from what Ive seen Mr and Mrs L 
agreed to take out these policies and each of them was suitable to their situation. 
Finally, Id also like to reassure Mr and Mrs Ls that Ive taken into account their 
response to our adjudicators findings and realise that my decision will come as a 
disappointment. I am sorry were unable to help them on this occasion. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. And I dont direct 
Bank of Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman