DRN-3165509
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, failed to protect her when she 
made a number of payments out of her account.
What happened
Towards the end of 2018, Mrs P was looking for somewhere to invest some money from a 
Halifax savings account that was maturing. She came across an investment companys 
website, spoke to them over the phone and decided to invest in some bonds they were 
offering. Mrs P then made a number of payments to the investment company between 
December 2018 and April 2019, totalling around £310,000.
Unfortunately, the investment company went into administration in April 2020 and so Mrs P 
lost the money she had invested. She was able to make a successful claim through the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) and received the maximum £85,000 
compensation it could award. But Mrs P was told the rest of her money couldnt be 
recovered. She then complained to Halifax that it hadnt followed the correct processes when 
she made the payments and had failed in its duty of care towards her.
Halifax investigated but said, as Mrs P had paid a genuine company, it considered this a 
dispute between her and the investment company  rather than a scam. It said it wouldnt 
have been in a position to offer financial advice on the payments Mrs P was making and any 
checks or questions it could have asked would only have been about whether the company 
she was paying was legitimate. So it didnt think it could have done anything further to 
prevent her losing her money and didnt agree to refund the payments or pay any 
compensation. Mrs P wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so referred her complaint to 
our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They said that, even if Halifax had asked 
more questions about the payments, it wouldnt have made a difference as Mrs P was 
sending money to a legitimate company and so Halifax would have been satisfied she wasnt 
the victim of a scam. They also said they didnt think Halifax was required to explain the 
FSCS award limit to Mrs P when she was making the payments. So they didnt think Halifax 
needed to take any further action or pay any compensation. Mrs P didnt agree with our 
investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I think Halifax may not have done everything wed expect it to do 
when Mrs P was making the payments, I dont think it would have stopped Mrs P making the 
payments even if it had done everything wed expect. So I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Halifax to refund the money Mrs P lost or pay her any compensation. Ill explain why below.
Mrs P has said that Halifax owed her a duty of care, and I agree that it did. But this duty of 
care is not limitless  there are limits to what this duty of care, or other accepted good 
banking practice, required Halifax to do.
Banks have a duty to observe reasonable care and skill in executing a customers orders. 
And this means that, if a bank has reasonable grounds for believing that a payment 
instruction is an attempt to misappropriate funds, it should refrain from making the payment 
and make appropriate enquiries.
Its also generally accepted good banking practice for banks to be monitoring accounts and 
payments to counter various risks, including preventing fraud and scams. And to have 
systems in place to look out for unusual transactions, or other signs that might indicate its 
customers were at risk of fraud. In some circumstances, banks are then expected to make 
additional checks before processing a payment, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, Mrs P made a number of high-value payments out of her account. So I think 
Halifax should have identified that she was potentially at risk of fraud as a result of the 
payments and carried out additional checks before processing them.
The first payment Mrs P made was done in branch. And Halifax has said that, due to the 
amount of this payment, it would have needed two members of staff to authorise it and that a 
checklist document would have needed to be completed. But it hasnt been able to provide 
clear evidence that these procedures were carried out. So I think its likely Halifax failed to 
follow its own procedures and didnt carry out the additional checks wed expect it to do 
before processing the payments.
As I explained above though, Halifaxs duty of care towards Mrs P and good banking 
practice required it to carry out checks to make sure she wasnt the victim of fraud or a 
scam. And Mrs P wasnt the victim of fraud or a scam. She was investing with what, at the 
time, was a legitimate company. So even if Halifax had carried out the further checks wed 
expect to it have done, these checks would only have been into whether Mrs P was the 
victim of a scam. And those checks would only have shown that she wasnt the victim of a 
scam. So I dont think it would have made any difference to Mrs P making the payments, 
even if these checks had been done.
Mrs P has said the checks would have uncovered that the investment company wasnt 
legitimate, as it wasnt authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority. But the investment 
company didnt have to be authorised  only the intermediary company arranging the bonds 
did. And the FSCS said only customers who bought bonds through the authorised 
intermediary were able to claim compensation, and then paid Mrs P compensation. So it 
seems likely she bought the bonds through the authorised intermediary. And I dont think the 
checks would have uncovered any reason to doubt the investment company was legitimate.
Mrs P has also said she should have been told about the risks of investing all her money 
with one company, or about the limit on awards the FSCS can make. But this would be 
providing her with financial advice and I dont agree Halifaxs duty of care towards her, or 
good banking practice, extend this far. I dont think Halifax was under any obligation to tell 
her about the FSCS award limits or to give her financial advice about the investment she 
was making. While Halifax could have offered her a financial consultation to discuss 
potential alternative investments, it didnt have to. So I dont think it would be fair to require 
Halifax to refund the money Mrs P lost, just because it didnt do so.
Mrs P has also mentioned how banks have changed their procedures since she made these 
payments, and that she thinks these changes would have prevented her losing her money. But I only think its fair for me to hold businesses to the standards they were required to meet 
at the time. So I dont think any subsequent changes to procedures mean Halifax was 
required to do more previously.
I sympathise with the position Mrs P has found herself in. I appreciate how she feels about 
this case and that my decision will come as a disappointment to her. My decision also 
shouldnt be taken as suggesting she is to blame or did anything wrong herself. But, for the 
reasons set out above, I dont think anything Halifax was reasonably expected to do would 
have stopped her losing her money. And so I dont think it would be fair to require it to refund 
the money she lost or pay her any compensation.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman