DRN-1419858
 
The complaint
Mr W and Ms C complain that following an email from Paragon Bank Plc they tried to make a 
further deposit into their account but this was rejected.
To settle matters theyd like Paragon Bank plc (Paragon) to refund the interest they lost as a 
result of not being able to make the deposit and compensation for their time in dealing with 
the matter.
What happened
Mr W and Ms C held an Easy Access Issue 4 savings account with Paragon. The account 
had a stated maximum balance of £150,000 when they opened the account. They received 
an email from Paragon to suggest that the terms and conditions had changed and the 
maximum balance that could be held had increased to £500,000. 
Mr W said Paragon's email advised them to check the updated terms and conditions on 
its website and when Mr W did this the terms and conditions stated a maximum limit of 
£500,000.
Mr W and Ms C transferred an additional £20,000 to their account but this was rejected by 
Paragon because it said the maximum balance for their account had been exceeded. 
Mr W and Ms C complained to Paragon but it didn't uphold their complaint. In its final 
response letter it said it'd increased the maximum balance across all accounts held with 
Paragon to £500,000 but this would still depend on the terms and conditions of their specific 
account. It said their Easy Access Issue 4 Savings account had a maximum balance of 
£150,000.  
It also said that the terms and conditions on its website were for those accounts currently 
available and the terms and conditions for their Easy Access Issue 4 savings account were 
made available to them at the time of opening.
Unhappy with Paragon Banks final response, they referred their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that their complaint should be upheld. 
Our investigator thought that Paragon's email could have made clearer that the terms and 
conditions are specific to the issue of the account and not just the type of account. Our 
investigator thought the Issue 4 terms and conditions made clear that the maximum balance 
that could be held was £150,000. He noted that the Issue 4 terms and conditions were 
provided at account opening and were also available in online banking so he didn't think he 
could fairly ask Paragon to pay the interest requested.
Mr W and Ms C disagree with the investigators view. They say the only terms and 
conditions on the website are those relating to Issue 5 and although hed previously been 
sent the terms and conditions for Issue 4 he had no reason to believe they were still valid 
given the email sent by Paragon to say theyd been changed. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The email sent by Paragon in June 2019 said:
"There have been some important changes to the General Terms and Conditions that apply 
to all Paragon accounts....."
and
Higher maximum balance
As a Paragon customer you can now hold a maximum of £500,000 across all your accounts 
with us. This still depends on the terms and conditions of your specific accounts, but the 
amount you can hold overall has been increased.
I agree with the investigator that the email could have made clearer that the terms and 
conditions of their specific account are specific not only to the type of account they had but 
also to the issue number of their account too. 
Our investigator has already explained that  our service can't tell Paragon the wording it 
must use in notifications about changes it makes to its terms and conditions. Thats the role 
of the Financial Conduct Authority as regulator. My role is look at whether Paragon treated 
Mr W and Ms C fairly. Overall I think it did and I'll explain why.
I can see how Mr W and Ms C might have thought that the maximum amount they could hold 
in their account had been increased to £500,000. I appreciate that Mr W checked the terms 
and conditions on the website and that these said the maximum account limit is 
£500,000. However, the terms and conditions on the website  clearly state that they apply to 
the Easy Access Savings account Issue 5 and this wasn't the account they held. 
Paragon explained that it only keeps the terms and conditions for its current products on its 
website. I don't think Paragon treated Mr W and Ms C unfairly here because I can see that it 
sent the terms and conditions for their Issue 4 account to them on account opening. The 
Issue 4 terms and conditions make clear that their account has a maximum limit of £150,000 
and as I explained above the terms and conditions on the website are clearly stated to be 
those that apply to Issue 5.
I've considered Mr W's point that he had no reason to believe the Issue 4 terms and 
conditions were still valid given the email sent by Paragon. I'm afraid I don't agree. I think 
Paragon's email makes clear that it was only making changes to its "General Terms and 
Conditions that apply to all Paragon accounts" and that they'd still need to refer to their 
specific product terms and conditions. 
I think Mr W and Ms C ought reasonably to have been aware that their specific account had 
a maximum limit of £150,000 as they were provided with the Issue 4 terms and conditions on 
account opening and Paragon confirmed these were also available through online banking.  
It follows that I think Paragon acted fairly when it rejected the additional deposit they tried to 
make because it took them over the maximum limit for their particular account. 
I can also see that Paragon opened a new account for them to allow them to take advantage 
of the overall increase in the amount of funds that could be held across all accounts so I 
think Paragon has done enough and I won't be asking it to do anything further. My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Michelle Hayward
Ombudsman