DRN-3782353
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Covea Insurance Plc (Covea) declined her claim for damage to her 
roof under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Towards the end of February 2022 Mrs T made a claim under her home insurance policy 
with Covea to cover the damage to her roof following a storm. Mrs T says the storm 
damaged her roof with several tiles and other parts falling to the ground.
Mrs T obtained two quotes to repair the damage to the roof and when the roofer came to 
replace the fallen tiles he noted other areas of the roof had also sustained damage as a 
result of the storm.
Mrs T told Covea about the additional damage and it sent a surveyor to take aerial pictures 
of the roof. The surveyor said the damage to the other tiles were as a result of wear and tear 
and not due to the storm. And so it declined to pay for the rest of the repairs. 
Mrs T wants Covea to pay for the repair of the roof and to compensate her for the distress 
and inconvenience she experienced when trying to deal with the matter. 
Covea said following the discovery of the additional damage it appointed its own surveyors 
to attend Mrs Ts property and inspect the damage. The surveyor determined the damage 
was not consistent with storm damage and said the was mortar missing from between the 
tiles and this had occurred over time. Covea said in order for the claim to be payable under 
the policy it has to be shown the damage is as a direct result of an insured peril. Covea said 
an exception under the policy is any damage arising from wear and tear. And as such Mrs 
Ts claim was declined. 
Mrs T wasnt happy with the response from Covea and so she referred her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator looked into Mrs Ts concerns but didnt think her 
complaint should be upheld. He accepted there had been a storm in the area in February 
2022. But he didnt think this was the main cause of the damage to Mrs Ts property. He felt 
the main cause of the damage was likely to be wear and tear, which was excluded under the 
terms of Mrs Ts policy. 
Mrs T disagreed with the investigators outcome. She said there was no evidence of the 
condition of the roof prior to the storm, and she felt the investigator hadnt taken the initial 
roofers report into consideration. So the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the evidence is incomplete, or inconsistent, as it is here, I make my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I think more likely than not happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
I understand Mrs T has strong views about what has happened and I can empathise with the 
situation. I have read and considered everything I have received carefully. It is important to 
explain our role is to look at whether Covea has acted within its terms and conditions and 
treated Mrs T fairly. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Its for the policy holder to demonstrate to their insurer that they have suffered an insured 
loss. If they can do this then, generally speaking, the insurer should pay the cost of the claim 
in line with the policy terms and conditions, unless the insurer can reasonably rely on a 
policy exclusion which shows it doesnt need to. 
Covea says the damage to Mrs Ts roof isnt covered by her policy. It referred to a section in 
the policy called General Exceptions that apply to the whole policy which said, loss or 
damage arising from; gradual causes, wear and tear, corrosion, deterioration or similar 
causes, wet or dry rot. 
Covea says the damage wasnt caused by a storm. To consider a claim under the storm 
section of the policy it would expect to see wind speeds of 55mph or above accompanied by 
heavy rain, hail, or snow. 
Having reviewed the information provided Im satisfied there was a storm in the location of 
Mrs Ts house in February 2022. But to uphold Mrs Ts complaint Id need to be persuaded 
that this was the main cause of the damage to Mrs Ts roof. And having reviewed everything 
carefully, I dont think the storm was the main cause of the damage. 
Covea says the damage to the roof was not consistent with storm damage. Its surveyor 
noted there was mortar missing from between the tiles and this had occurred over time. 
Covea has provided a report from the surveyor who inspected Mrs Ts property. The 
surveyor concluded that the mortar had deteriorated and this caused the damage, and there 
was no evidence of storm damage. The report specifically referred to the factors Covea has 
given as its reasons for declining Mrs Ts claim. 
The report concludes with, the tiles on the roof are loose and need to be re-bedded back to 
the roof, the hip looks ok visually and the bind between the mortar and tile have broken over 
time. The back right hop mortar looks deteriorated none of the damage is consistent with a 
storm event, deterioration of mortar works has caused the damage. 
The information in the report is detailed and Im persuaded by what it says. I also havent 
seen any firm evidence that the experts report is incorrect. 
I know my decision will be disappointing to Mrs T who has had to pay a significant amount of 
money to have her roof repaired. But having considered everything, I dont think Covea has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably rejected Mrs Ts claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman