DRN-3204730
The complaint
Mr J complains that Bamboo Limited have held him responsible for a loan he says he didnt 
take out. He says hes been the victim of identity theft and tricked into handing the loan 
proceeds over to fraudsters.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 23 November 2021. Ive copied the content of 
that document below.
Mr J says he was sent the details of a competition in a WhatsApp message. He followed the 
link and was taken to a website which seemed to be selling electronics and gadgets. Mr J 
saw the details of the competition, which required no purchase or entry fee. He provided his 
name and contact details to enter. This was around the end of August or start of September 
2019.
A few days later Mr J received a text to say that hed won £100. He followed a link within the 
text and that took him to another website. Mr J had to provide further details including: his 
date of birth, address, and bank details (so the prize could be paid to him). He was also 
asked to send a copy of his ID, which he did. He then received a call confirming that hed 
won £100 and that he should see it in his account shortly.
The following day Mr J received another call from the competition organiser to say there had 
been a technical error that meant it had accidentally paid him £2,800 instead of the £100 he 
was due. They asked Mr J for the money back, which Mr J agreed to. Mr J says he checked 
his balance and could see the money was there, but he didnt check the details of the 
transaction.
The caller said because of the technical error Mr J couldnt just transfer the funds back. 
Instead, they said Mr J would have to withdraw the cash and give it to a courier that theyd 
arrange.
Mr J went to a local branch of his bank the same day and withdrew £2,500 over the counter. 
He then withdrew a further £200, followed by a final £30. Mr J then returned home to wait for 
the courier.
Shortly after getting home the courier arrived. The courier kept their helmet on the whole 
time and collected the cash from Mr J. Mr J has said how he thought he was doing the right 
thing and had also won some money, so didnt suspect anything might be wrong.
Mr J has said how when he received his bank statement on 11 November 2019 he was 
shocked to learn that the £2,800 had actually come from two separate loan providers: 
£2,500 from Bamboo and £300 from another loan company that Ill refer to as U.
Mr J contacted both companies to find out what was happening. He wasnt able to provide 
them with copies of the messages hed exchanged as hed deleted them to free up space on 
his phone.
U looked into the matter and wrote off the loan, accepting that Mr J hadnt taken it out.
Bamboo, however, decided to hold Mr J responsible for the loan. It said itd been provided 
with all of Mr Js personal information and paid the proceeds into an account in his name. It 
also sent Mr J a welcome letter once the loan was approved, along with emails and text 
messages. And it said as Mr J had confirmed receipt of the funds, as well as withdrawing 
them and handing them on, it wouldnt consider writing the loan off. It did sayitI would accept 
repayment of the capital alone, without the need for Mr J to pay interest.
Mr J was unhappy with Bamboos decision and so brought the complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators looked into what had happened and recommended the complaint be 
upheld. She felt Mr J had been the victim of a scam and said, in summary:
the phone number and email address provided on the application didnt match Mr Js 
details;
Mr J said he didnt receive a welcome letter;
the salary, marital status and occupation provided didnt match Mr Js circumstances;
Mr Js version of events had remained consistent throughout;
it didnt appear Mr J had benefited from the loan funds;
there was no IP evidence available to connect the application to Mr J.
With all of this in mind she recommended that Bamboo write off the loan aside from the £100 
that Mr J believed hed won.
Bamboo didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is missing or incomplete I must make my findings on the balance of 
probabilities. That is to say what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr J but I intend to reach a different outcome to 
our investigator; I dont believe his complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The overarching reason for my not upholding Mr Js complaint is that Im persuaded he 
either took the loan out himself or at least knew something about it. Im not persuaded the 
version of events hes given is an accurate representation of what actually happened.
The first thing I find unusual is that Mr J is unable to provide any evidence of the scam he 
says he fell victim to. It seems he received various messages and calls, and he visited at 
least one website, but has no evidence of any of them. I accept its possible that someone 
might delete messages form their phone. But, very generally speaking, this is not common 
behaviour. And such messages take up very little space on a phone and so Mr Js reasons 
for doing so seem unusual.
The situation Mr J says he found himself also sounds very unusual. He was told hed won 
£100 for doing very little. And then was told that hed accidentally been sent £2,800. I believe its reasonable to say anyone would find this situation very strange, even to the point of it 
being unlikely. Mr J says he checked his balance but nothing else. Meaning he didnt do 
anything to verify the person who he was speaking to our where they were calling from. He 
also didnt check his account for any indication as to the source of the funds, which would 
have otherwise revealed all was not as he was being told. That sounds strange to me, 
especially considering there would have been a considerable risk to the fraudster of the 
deception being uncovered, had Mr J checked his statements. It seems unlikely that 
someone would take at face value what they were being told about an unusual scenario, by 
an unknown and unverified party, without doing anything to check the legitimacy of the 
situation.
Mr J says he didnt check the incoming transactions at all and yet seems to have arranged to 
withdraw the funds and hand them over to a courier very quickly, within a matter of hours of 
receiving the money. It seems Mr J wasnt presented with any identification by the courier, 
nor did he ask for it. And he didnt get a receipt or any form of confirmation that hed handed 
over £2,700 in cash. All of which sounds quite improbable.
Mr J says he realised something wasnt right when he got his statement in November. That 
was what prompted him to contact Bamboo and U. But that doesnt seem to add up. The 
funds credited Mr Js account in September. That means the transactions would have shown 
on his September statement. But Mr J says it was two months later, after two further 
statements were issued, that he noticed the transactions. So it doesnt make sense that the 
November statement would have been what alerted him to the loan credits.
Mr J has also said that he had no idea who Bamboo or U were. And so its not clear why he 
automatically assumed something was wrong if and when he did check his statements. It 
seems just as likely that either or both names could have been that of the competition 
provider.
Bamboo did also send Mr J a welcome letter. And although he says he didnt receive it, it 
seems more likely than not it would have been successfully delivered to his address.
I accept there were some details provided to Bamboo that dont appear to match Mr Js. But 
thats not enough to persuade me that he had no idea about the loan. I can also 
acknowledge that there could be an explanation behind each of the points Ive discussed 
here. But when they are all taken into consideration together and holistically, as they must 
be, the version of events seems highly improbable. And I believe its more likely than not Mr 
J did have at least some awareness of what was happening. I dont believe the more likely 
explanation is that hes been the unwitting victim of a scam.
With all of that in mind I dont intend to tell Bamboo to write off the loan.
My provisional decision
I dont intend to uphold this complaint against Bamboo Limited.
Both parties have now had the chance to respond to the provisional decision. Bamboo had 
nothing further to add and accepted the outcome. Mr J disagreed and raised the following:
he asked for evidence of the IP Address used to make the application;
he asked for a copy of the loan agreement bearing his signature;
he asked if the welcome letter was posted or emailed;Mr J said its not unusual for someone to not regularly check their mail;
Mr J doesnt believe its uncommon for someone to regularly delete messages;
Mr J reiterated that some of the information Bamboo held from the application was 
incorrect.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my overall findings on the case havent changed and Im not upholding it. I 
have thought about what Mr J has said since the provisional decision, but it doesnt 
persuade me to reach a different outcome. There are some points raised by Mr J that I wont 
comment on further as Ive already explained my thoughts on them in the provisional 
decision. But I can confirm Ive considered all of the available evidence and information in 
reaching my findings.
Bamboo might be able to provide the IP address used to make the application. But I dont 
find it is a necessary or persuasive piece of evidence in this case. I assume that Mr J would 
wish to demonstrate that he normally uses a different IP address when using his devices. 
And that might be the case. But that the IP address on the loan application may not match 
the one Mr J regularly uses wouldnt be persuasive in showing that Mr J either didnt take out 
the loan or knew nothing about it. IP addresses can easily change and even appear as 
locations in which a person hasnt physically been. And if Mr J gave his details to someone 
else, knowing they were going to make a loan application, then the IP address used for the 
application would of course be different to the one Mr J might regularly use. And so I dont 
believe IP address evidence would be persuasive here.
Weve sent Mr J a copy of the loan agreement but it doesnt bear his signature. Thats 
because the loan was applied for online and signed electronically. I wouldnt expect to see 
an actual or wet signature.
Bamboo has maintained that the welcome letter was posted to Mr J. But even if it wasnt, or 
if the evidence suggested it wasnt sent for some reason, there are still numerous 
concerning factors about Mr Js version of events that havent been overcome.
Mr J has said its not uncommon for people to not regularly check mail. I take his point here, 
to a degree. Much about our lives, finances and so on are conducted online and 
electronically now. But I still think it is uncommon to simply not check mail at all for extended 
periods of time, here a period of two months or more in terms of his bank statements.
Mr J has explained that he regularly deletes messages as he doesnt have much capacity on 
his phone. But I believe my commentary from the provisional decision here is still fair and 
reasonable. And the fact that Mr J has no evidence of the scam he says he fell victim to, 
along with all of the other unusual and improbable circumstances of the case, lead me to 
believe that this service hasnt been presented with a truthful version of events.
I remain of the view that Mr J knew  or at least ought to have known  something about the 
loan application. And so Im not telling Bamboo that it needs to do anything differently.   
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Bamboo Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman