DRN-3375662
The complaint
Mrs S complains about end of contract charges when her agreement with Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc ended. 
What happened
In September 2018 Mrs S was supplied with a car and entered into a contract hire 
agreement with Santander.
When the agreement ended, the car was inspected and collected. Following this, Santander 
asked Mrs S to pay charges for damage to the car.
Mrs S later found the car for sale at a garage and noticed that the damage hadnt been 
repaired.
Mrs S complained to Santander. She was unhappy that shed been charged for damage 
which hadnt been repaired. She was also unhappy that collection of the car had been 
delayed, which had cost her additional insurance.
In response, Santander apologised for the delay in collecting the car and said it had credited 
Mrs Ss account with £40. In relation to the end of contract charges, Santander said that the 
damage was outside of the guidelines for fair wear and tear and that the terms and 
conditions stated that Mrs S was obliged to pay for the damage but that Santander wasnt 
obliged to have the car repaired.
Mrs S wasnt happy with the response and brought her claim to this service.
Our investigator reviewed the damage and said he thought most of the charges had been 
applied fairly, with the exception of the damage to the front alloy and the bumper, which he 
didnt think fell outside fair wear and tear guidelines. The investigator said that the guidelines 
allowed Santander to apply charges for damage even thought it might decide not to repair 
the damage before the car was sold.
Mrs S didnt agree. She said she couldnt see anything in her agreement which said that 
Santander could charge for repairs if the repairs werent carried out. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mrs S must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are used as an 
industry standard to determine whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear.
Mrs S hasnt said that she disagrees with the damage shes been charged for. But for 
completeness, Ive looked at the inspection report and the images, and Im satisfied that the 
majority of the damage exceeds fair wear and tear. This is with the exception of the damage 
to the front alloy and the rear bumper, where I agree with the investigator that this damage 
doesnt go beyond fair wear and tear.
The nub of Mrs Ss complaint is that she is unhappy that the damage for which shes been 
charged hasnt been repaired. So, Ive looked at the agreement and the relevant guidelines 
to see whither Santander acted fairly.
The agreement says that Santander can charge Mrs S for damage which goes beyond fair 
wear and tear. The charges reflect what it would cost to repair the car. Theres nothing in the 
agreement which obliges Santander to carry out the repairs before it sells the car. Once the 
agreement has ended, the car belongs to Santander, and its up to Santander to choose 
whether to have the car repaired or not before it sells it. If the car isnt repaired, the charges 
are to compensate Santander for any diminution in value caused as a result of the damage.
The BVLRA guidelines state that charges can still be applied at the end of the agreement 
where the leasing company decides not to repair the damage before the car is sold.
Based on what Ive seen and taking the terms and conditions of the agreement and the 
BVLRA guidelines into account, Im unable to say that Santander has done anything wrong 
or acted unfairly by charging Mrs S for the damage.
Putting things right
Ive already said that the charges for the front alloy (£60) and the rear bumper (£95) should 
be waived. The rest of the charges remain payable by Mrs S. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part. Santander Consumer (UK) Plc must 
waive the charges for the front alloy and the rear bumper.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman