DRN-3364599
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the service he received from Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, 
surrounding a security block that was placed on his credit account. 
What happened
Mr M telephoned Halifax because hed tried to use his credit account but had been unable to 
do so. Halifax explained to Mr M that his account had been flagged for security reasons. 
Unfortunately, Mr M wasnt able to verify his identity to Halifaxs satisfaction on the telephone 
which meant that the only way to unblock the account was for Mr M to visit a Halifax branch 
and verify himself in person. 
Mr M didnt want to do this as it was very inconvenient for him and because he felt that it 
would be unlawful for him to travel the distance required for that purpose during the Covid-19 
lockdown restrictions that were in place at that time. However, Halifax confirmed that the 
they would require Mr M to visit a branch if he wished to unblock his account. Mr M wasnt 
happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Halifax looked at Mr Ms complaint. They didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly towards Mr M 
and reiterated that they required Mr M to verify his identity in branch before the account 
would be unblocked. Accordingly, they didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But while they acknowledged Mr Ms 
reasons for not wanting to visit a branch in person, they also didnt feel that Halifax had 
acted unreasonably by requiring this of Mr M, and so they also didnt uphold Mr Ms 
complaint.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt for this service to instruct a business such as Halifax as to how it should structure its 
operational and security processes. As such, Im satisfied that Halifax were entitled to ask Mr 
M to verify his identity in branch if their account security processes required this. However, it 
is within the remit of this service to consider whether Halifaxs adherence to this process, in 
consideration of the specific circumstances surrounding this complaint, has resulted in a fair 
outcome in this instance. 
I note from Mr Ms correspondence with this service that hes made several references to 
points of law and especially to temporary legislation that was in place during the Covid-19 
pandemic which restricted what individuals could and couldnt travel certain distances for.
I can appreciate Mr Ms position here, but it must be confirmed that this service isnt a 
regulatory body or a Court of Law, and while this service does take laws and regulations into 
account, our remit is based on fairness of outcome, as described above.
In this instance, Mr M clearly felt that it would have been unlawful for him, in light of the 
Covid-19 restrictions, to have travelled the distance that would have been required in order 
to visit a Halifax branch for the purpose of unblocking his account. On the other hand, 
Halifax appear to have felt that this would have permissible, although its notable that the 
agent that Mr M spoke to did confirm to Mr M that they wouldnt want him to undertake an 
action that he felt was unlawful.
Ultimately, as explained above, it isnt for this service to make a decision as to whether Mr M 
travelling a certain distance to unblock his account at a certain time would or wouldnt have 
been a lawful act. Such a determination is for a Court of Law to make. Instead, I have to 
decide whether I feel Halifax acted fairly and reasonably by continuing to require Mr M to 
visit a branch in person in order to unblock his account.
One of the reasons that I feel it was fair for Halifax to maintain their position in this instance 
is that there was no requirement for Mr M to unblock his account within a certain period of 
time. Rather, Mr M was free to visit a branch of Halifax whenever it was suitable for him, 
although his account would remain blocked and unusable until he was able to do so. 
As such, while I can appreciate that it was highly inconvenient for Mr M to have visited a 
branch while he was working away from home  as he was due to do at the time of the 
telephone call  he was able to wait until as long as was necessary in order to be able to 
visit a branch safely and under circumstances he felt were lawful.
Additionally, its clear that Mr M didnt have an essential need for the account. And I say this 
because Mr M asked to close the account and also referenced clearing the account balance 
to zero and leaving the account blocked but with no activity or requirements from him.
Im aware that Mr M was also wary of visiting public locations such as a bank branch 
because of concerns about the spread of Covid-19. This is understandable, but like all 
financial institutions at that time, Halifax were taking measures designed to prevent viral 
transmission as much as possible, and again it must be remembered that Mr M didnt have 
to unblock his account if he didnt want to do so.
In consideration of all these factors, I dont feel that there was any reasonable requirement 
for Halifax to have made an exception to their security processes in this instance. And while I 
can appreciate how this might have been frustrating and inconvenient for Mr M, I feel that 
the circumstances surrounding this complaint  that Mr M was reasonably required to visit a 
Halifax branch while lockdown restrictions were in place meant that a certain degree of 
unavoidable inconvenience unfortunately became necessary in situations like this.
In summary, while I can understand how it would have been difficult for Mr M to have visited 
a Halifax branch as required, I dont feel that there was an essential need for him to have 
been able to unblock his account as a matter of urgency that should have reasonably 
required Halifax to deviate from their account security processes in this instance. 
Additionally, Im also satisfied that Halifax were clear, consistent, and polite in their 
communication to Mr M about their position on this matter and the requirement for Mr M to 
come into branch.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr M was wanting, but it follows from the above 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Halifax to take any further action at this time. I hope that Mr M will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman