DRN-1621692
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the price AXA Insurance UK Plc charged to change an 
address on their home insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr and Mrs S paid a renewal price of around £110 for their annual home 
insurance policy. They needed to make a mobile phone claim which AXA settled.
Mrs S called AXA in April 2019 to let it know shed be changing address. She was moving to 
a different town and to a new home with more bedrooms. AXA told her it would cost around 
an extra £87.50 to cover the new home for the rest of the policy year. 
Mrs S wasnt happy with AXAs quote. She ran an online quote for her new address, which 
returned a price of around £110. So she felt it was taking the claim thatd been made earlier 
on in the year into account when quoting the additional premium, even though AXA told her 
the claim hadnt been factored into the new price calculation. 
AXA told Mrs S the main reason for the increased additional premium was the change in 
address. Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy with AXAs response, so they asked us to look 
into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs S complaint should be upheld. She asked AXA for 
information to show how itd worked out the additional premium. And she thought the 
information showed itd done so fairly. She said the main reason for the change in price was 
the change of address. 
The investigator also explained that the online quote was cheaper because Mrs S hadnt run 
it in her own name and also because the cover shed chosen on the quote didnt match what 
she actually had on her policy. AXA had also explained that the additional price was worked 
out using the rates that applied when the policy had renewed. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They felt theyd been held hostage by AXA because of the claim 
theyd made. They felt theyd missed out on negotiation opportunities. They requested 
evidence of AXAs changes in rates and the statistics it based its risk calculations on. They 
felt theyd been treated unfairly. And they didnt think AXA had dealt with their complaint in a 
timely way.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think AXA has treated 
Mr and Mrs S fairly.
Its clear Mr and Mrs S feel very strongly about their complaint. I can see Mrs S has spent 
some time dealing with AXA to try and sort things out. Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs S Ive thought carefully about everything theyve said and sent us.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S would like to see the evidence AXA relied on when it worked out 
their premium. I also understand they feel they were trapped into accepting the additional 
premium following the change of address because of the claim thatd been made.
Its important I explain that were not the industry regulator. We wont generally tell an insurer 
what factors it can take into account when its assessing the risk of a claim, when a policys 
taken out, renewed or adjusted. Or what price it can charge to cover that risk. If it thinks the 
risk of a policyholder making a claim has gone up for some reason, it may well decide to put 
up the price at these times. 
I also wont generally tell a business how to structure any new business discounts it might 
choose to offer or how it should run its online platforms and internal processes.
What I can look at though is whether AXA worked out Mr and Mrs S additional premium 
fairly when Mrs S let it know about the address change. I can see the price for the policy 
almost doubled at this point, so I do understand why she was concerned. 
Ive carefully checked whether AXA worked out Mr and Mrs S additional premium following 
the change of address fairly. Ive checked that its worked out the price in the same way it 
would for any of its customers in the same circumstances and that it hasnt singled out Mr 
and Mrs S in any way.
As the investigator explained, AXA sent us information which showed us what itd taken into 
account when it calculated the new price. This information is highly sensitive to AXAs 
business. This means its confidential, and so Im afraid I cant let Mr and Mrs S see it. I 
know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs S, because it provides the breakdown theyd 
like to see. But I hope it reassures them to know that Ive considered this information 
carefully and independently to check they havent been treated unfairly.
What I can tell Mr and Mrs S is that the main reason for the price increase was the change in 
their address. It also took into account the rates that applied at the policy renewal in January 
2019, rather than the live rates which applied at the time of the adjustment. This was part of 
AXAs underwriting process. From everything Ive seen, Im satisfied AXA worked out the 
additional premium in the same way it wouldve done for any of its other customers in Mr and 
Mrs S situation. Ive seen nothing to suggest theyve been singled out. This means I think 
the price has been worked out fairly.
Its clear Mrs S believes AXA took the claim she made into account when working out the 
additional premium. Having considered all the evidence, Im satisfied AXA didnt take this 
claim into account when it worked out the additional premium to cover the new address.
I accept there was a reasonable difference between the online quote Mrs S ran and the extra 
premium she had to pay. But this wasnt based on Mrs S herself and so it wasnt linked to 
her credit file or personal claims experience. It also didnt include some of Mr and Mrs S 
existing cover  like accidental damage cover or personal possessions cover  both optional 
add-ons which increase the overall policy price. 
Ive considered these factors, together with the difference in the rates and the possibility that 
an online quote for a new customer might also offer new business discounts. So I dont 
think the two policies can be considered like for like or be fairly compared.
It was also open to Mr and Mrs S to turn down AXAs additional premium, cancel their policy 
and go elsewhere. I understand this wouldve attracted cancellation costs and that the fact theyd made a claim made them feel they had to stay with AXA. But I dont think I can fairly 
find that theyd no choice but to agree to take up AXAs adjusted premium following the 
change of address.
I understand Mr and Mrs S feel AXA didnt deal with their complaint in a timely way. Ive 
thought about this and Ive considered AXAs notes. I can see their complaint was addressed 
within a few days of it being made. As the investigator explained, the regulators rules give 
financial businesses eight weeks to respond to a complaint. Im satisfied AXA dealt with this 
complaint well within the regulators timescales. While Mr and Mrs S might not have agreed 
with AXAs response, this doesnt mean it didnt deal with their complaint fairly.
Overall, I dont think AXA did anything wrong that it needs to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman