DRN-3142503
The complaint
Mrs R complains about Great Lakes Insurance SEs (Great Lakes) handling of a claim she 
made under her pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs Rs dog required three treatments. She contacted Great Lakes in July 2021 and asked if 
these treatments would be covered under her policy. Mrs R says she was told the treatments 
would be and to pay the directly excess to the vet. However, when Mrs R spoke to her vet, 
they said the treatments may not be covered. Mrs R complained to Great Lakes about this 
and said shed also been told the policy excess was claimed per year, not after each claim. 
She also said she wasnt told the treatments would be considered separate claims, rather 
than as one claim. 
Great Lakes responded to Mrs Rs complaint. They said they hadnt offered a guarantee the 
claim would be covered, only that it might be. It acknowledged its adviser could have been 
clearer when they spoke to Mrs R. However, Great Lakes closed Mrs Rs claim after sending 
the final response letter in September 2021.
Unhappy with Great Lakes response, Mrs R referred her complaint to this service. To put 
things right, shed like Great Lakes to pay 50% of the claim cost. One of our investigators 
looked into what happened and said while Mrs R had been given some incorrect information, 
the apology shed received from Great Lakes was sufficient. As Mrs R didnt agree, this 
matter has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge the adviser Mrs R spoke to in July gave her some incorrect information and 
led her to believe the treatments would essentially be pre-authorised. One of the treatments 
Mrs R mentioned was neutering, and in this respect the policy terms say:
We will not pay for routine or preventative healthcare, for example spaying and 
neutering.
Its clear Mrs R relied on the incorrect information and subsequently spoke to her vet to 
arrange the treatments in place. Just after this, Mrs R contacted Great Lakes again and was 
given the right information  in that the policy would not pre-authorise treatment. Ive 
reviewed the second call Mrs R had with the adviser who explained that there might be 
some circumstances where the policy might cover neutering, but it would usually only do so 
if there was a medical need. 
Im satisfied on this basis Mrs R was given the right information during the second call she 
had with the adviser
Mrs R feels her claims should be settled on the basis of the incorrect information she was 
given. And with that in mind shes like a contribution of 50% of the cost of the treatments. 
However, thats not what I consider to be a fair approach and isnt one this service would 
usually take. If someone has been given the wrong information, wed expect them to be put 
in the position if theyd been given the correct information in the first place, not as if the 
wrong information was true.
As no treatments had been carried out at the time of the final response letter, I dont 
consider Mrs R has incurred a financial loss, although I acknowledge shes had a loss of 
expectation. According to the policy terms, it is likely Mrs R would always have paid for the 
treatments upfront and then see if they could be claimed for under her policy. I appreciate 
Mrs R had had some inconvenience and loss of expectation around this issue following the 
first phone call. This was put right in the second call. I think the apology she received, along 
with the reassurance of feedback being given to the adviser is sufficient in this instance. Im 
not going to require Great Lakes do anything more to put things right. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman