The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
The policy was taken out around the same time as the mortgage, with both going live in June 
1991.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagrees with the adjudicators view and 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Bradford & Bingley doesnt have much paperwork available from the sale, which is not 
surprising given how long ago it took place. The only document it has been able to provide is 
a mortgage application form, which is undated. The lack of contemporaneous evidence does 
make the complaint more difficult to decide. In reaching my decision I have considered the 
evidence that we do have, as well as what I consider is most likely to have happened.
Mrs W says she has no recollection of the PPI being sold to her and that she only became 
aware that she had PPI when she re-mortgaged in 2010 (although Bradford & Bingley says 
that Mrs W made a successful claim in 1998).
The mortgage application form has a section for PPI and says: Please tick the box for the 
type of cover required. There is a tick in the box to request accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. Mrs W has signed the form at the bottom.
The form not being dated is problematic. Bradford & Bingley has provided evidence that the 
mortgage and PPI went live in June 1991. Mrs W has provided proof that she was working 
for a financial institution at that time and had been since July 1990. Yet the mortgage 
application form records Mrs W as working in a different job, which Mrs W says is the job 
she had before she moved to work for the financial institution. I think its unlikely that it would 
have taken a year from applying for a mortgage until completion and Mrs W would have 
needed to update Bradford & Bingley about any change of circumstance anyway, such as 
moving jobs. Its therefore possible that the mortgage application form stems from an earlier 
application that wasnt completed.
DRN-1789315From what we know of Bradford & Bingleys sales processes at the time, the PPI would 
normally have been presented as optional. This is borne out by the undated application form 
that we do have. It might have been from an earlier date than the eventual sale of the PPI in 
1991, but it does show that applicants were given a choice about buying PPI. And its very 
likely that Mrs W would have completed a very similar form at the point that she was sold 
PPI. I consider that Mrs W would have known from the wording and layout of the form that 
the PPI was optional.
Mrs W says that the top part of the undated application form is in her husbands writing. But 
she says that the PPI section is in neither her husbands nor her writing. Its not uncommon 
for an adviser to complete forms during a mortgage interview, based on the answers that an 
applicant provides. And Mrs W has signed the form at the bottom, so its apparent that she 
was present during the interview and that she was agreeable to PPI at whatever date that 
was. Mrs W has suggested that the PPI section was filled in afterwards but I dont have any 
evidence to persuade me that that was the case.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs W has said. But the sale was a long time ago and 
so it also wouldnt be surprising if Mrs Ws recollection of events has faded. Overall, based 
on the available evidence, I think it is more likely than not that Mrs W was given a choice 
about taking out PPI. It seems to me that she probably decided to buy it, knowing she didnt 
have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
I dont know if Bradford & Bingley advised Mrs W to buy the PPI. If it did, then in 
recommending it to her, it would have needed to ensure that it met her needs. And from 
what I know of Mrs Ws circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for her.
As we know, Mrs W was working for a financial institution in 1991. Her employer would have 
given her six months full pay, followed by six months half pay, if she was off work sick. But 
the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mrs 
W would have received full pay for. Mrs W says her husband would have helped. But if Mrs 
W had lost her job, the household income would have been significantly reduced. In which 
case, having the mortgage repayments covered would have been helpful, allowing her 
husbands income to cover all the other outgoings. Mrs W had a guarantor for the mortgage, 
but asking your guarantor to cover your mortgage repayments for you would presumably be 
a last resort. Overall, I consider that Mrs W had a need for the PPI and could have benefitted 
from it at what would have been a difficult time. Therefore, if Bradford & Bingley did 
recommend it, it was reasonable that it did so.
Its possible that Bradford & Bingley didnt provide as much information about the policy as it 
should have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs W wasnt affected by 
any of those things. As I consider that she had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, 
I dont think that further information would have caused her to change her mind.
This means that Bradford & Bingley doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs 
W. But Bradford & Bingley has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because: 
When the policy was sold, Bradford & Bingley expected to get a high level of 
commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have 
told Mrs W about that. Because Bradford & Bingley didnt tell Mrs W, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Bradford & Bingley has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
 My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Bradford & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman