Page 1 of 7The complaint
Miss T complains that Oakam Ltd lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
This final decision follows a provisional decision issued in December 2021. That provisional 
decision is duplicated later in this decision. 
Using information from Oakam, here is a brief table of approved loans.
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 18/01/2017 08/04/2017 52 weekly £1,000.00
2 08/04/2017 17/01/2018 78 weekly £1,205.36
3 30/06/2017 14/07/2017 13 weekly £200.00
4 31/07/2017 17/11/2017 26 weekly £400.00
5 27/03/2018 15/06/2018 13 fortnightly £500.00
6 27/06/2018 14/09/2018 20 fortnightly £600.00
In April 2017 the £755 outstanding Loan 1 balance was transferred to the new loan 2 with an 
additional £450 cash disbursement. Loans 3 and 4 were taken when loan 2 was outstanding. 
There was a short gap of around two months in early 2018 when Miss T was not in debt to 
Oakam. Loans 2 to 6 were repaid early.
Many of the factual details surrounding the circumstances of Miss Ts personal and financial 
situation are sensitive and private and so I have kept the details to a minimum. In summary, 
Miss T has told us that she was in an abusive relationship at the time of the lending and was 
coerced into taking out the loans. Shes given us an account of the nature of that relationship 
and the effect it had on her. We have received input about these matters from the police.
Miss T first complained to Oakam in January 2020 and received a final response letter (FRL) 
from Oakam in March 2020. It did think that loans 5 and 6 had been completed outside of 
our policy and so put forward a resolution that it refund Miss T the interest and charges for 
loans 5 and 6. Later our adjudicator discovered more about why Oakam had come to that 
conclusion and I come back to this part later in the decision.
DRN-3190801Page 2 of 7Miss T referred her complaint to this Service. One of our adjudicators received information 
about the nature of Miss Ts circumstances and reviewed the evidence.
Our adjudicator thought that loans 2 to 6 should be upheld. In addition she felt that as 
Oakam had been given information and had recorded a request from Miss T that it did not 
lend to her again in February 2018 (due to the inappropriate actions of her partner) then the 
approval of loans 5 and 6 was wrong and had caused distress and inconvenience. Our 
adjudicator thought that an award of £750 was fair. Oakam agreed to that proposed 
outcome.
Further consideration by our adjudicator led her to issue a second view. In it she explained 
that repayment of the capital sums repaid to Oakam together with the interest refunds plus 
the £750 compensation (and amendment of Miss Ts credit file) was fair.
Oakam has not agreed with this second view and requested an  ombudsman review the
complaint. It was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021 in which I gave reasons as to why I agreed 
with our adjudicator  that all the capital and interest monies should be repaid to Miss T on 
loans 2 to 6. And I indicated that I was planning to direct that loans 2 to 6 were removed 
from her credit file. The £750 compensation payment was to be paid to Miss T as well. 
Since then, Oakam has responded to say that it has nothing to add. Miss T has replied to 
says she accepts the provisional decision. 
I am issuing my final decision and as there will be no changes to it I have set it out in full in 
the next part of the decision  from page 3. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss T 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Oakam should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer.
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);Page 3 of 7having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting the 
risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending the lending history and pattern of lending 
itself clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Oakam was required to establish whether Miss T could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
to do that.
I have carefully reconsidered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Ts complaint. 
Here are my provisional decision findings and I have set them out in smaller type to 
differentiate them. They form part of this final determination. 
My provisional decision findings dated 21 December 2021
The current position
The current position is that Oakam has agreed to our adjudicators first view which was to uphold 
loans 2 to 6 (of which Oakam had already agreed to uphold loans 5 and 6 in its FRL in March 2020). 
Oakam has agreed to pay the redress outlined in that first view which included the refund of the 
interest and charges, the additional 8% interest (subject to HMRC deductions), the £750 
compensation and amendment of Miss Ts credit file.
So, I do not need to address large parts of the complaint relating to irresponsible lending and the 
reasons behind the compensation sum of £750 as these parts of the complaint have been agreed.
Oakams objection to our adjudicators second view is narrower than that. It said:
However, on 12 November 2021, you stated for loans 2 to 6 we should also refund the 
capital. We have reviewed this additional point and do not agree with your decision. We do 
understand that what [Miss T] went through was traumatic for her and this is why you have 
added compensation to the outcome of the complaint. This includes the 8% annualised 
statutory interest and the separate £750 compensation. Thus, we believe the compensation 
amount is fair to cover the experience [Miss T] went through. We believe £750 is sufficient to 
bring this matter to a close.
So, the disputed issue is whether its fair and reasonable for Oakam to be directed to repay the capital 
funds and its this which I address in my provisional decision. Page 4 of 7Loan 1
In July 2021, when our adjudicator issued her first view, she did not think that there was enough for 
her to uphold Loan 1. Miss Ts response to that was that it was a comprehensive letter. And Miss T 
went on to say, I'm happy with the outcome and think it's fair indeed.
From Miss Ts response then I think she is content that loan 1 was not upheld overall, and so I do not 
consider I need to reassess that loan.
For completeness, I have reviewed the information we have surrounding the first loan as the events 
surrounding it take on greater significance when considering Oakams position later in the lending 
relationship.
I have carefully considered Miss Ts explanation that she had attended in person to apply for loan 1 at 
a place where the Oakam representatives offered counter service. Her former partner attended with 
her. Miss T has given an account about how her former partner behaved when she was speaking to 
the Oakam representatives. Miss T has explained that she was trying not to take out the loan and was 
resisting the whole application process. She has explained that the discussions taking place about 
this between her former partner and herself were witnessed by the Oakam representatives, and they 
considered it a personal matter between the couple, rather than a concern. Oakam processed the first 
loan application anyway.
I note that a large proportion of that loan balance was refinanced into loan 2.
Loans 2 to 6
As I have outlined earlier, as the irresponsible lending aspect for loans 2 to 6 have been agreed then 
I need not address that. Im focussed on the redress for them.
I have written my decision commencing with the last two loans 5 and 6. And I have done this because 
of the clear and emphatic evidence from Oakam to which I refer here.
The recorded note from February 2018
Oakam has provided us details of an account note originating from Miss T when she attended a store 
in person to inform Oakam that it must not lend to her again as her partner was pushing her to take 
the loan. This must have related to Loan 5 or in the lead up to it.
I have chosen not to duplicate the contents of the note here. The note indicates that Miss T was 
wanting the loan application to be processed but not approved. From this, plus the detailed 
background and explanations we have received from Miss T and third parties, its clear she was in a 
difficult situation with someone in close proximity to her. It looks to me that she needed the loan 
refusal from Oakam to help her to escape one part of her economic situation.
I have thought carefully about the circumstances surrounding what we know about Miss Ts situation 
which led to her going to the store to communicate this to Oakam in February 2018, together with the 
wording of the note. And it leads me to think that Oakam likely knew that any funds approved for 
Miss T with the pressure she was receiving from her former partner were not going to be for Miss Ts 
benefit.
Miss T knew that, and the short note on her Oakam account in which she tells Oakam she doesnt 
want the loan gives a relatively clear indication that the loan monies would not be for her. But because 
of the nature of the relationship she felt she had to make the application and was relying on Oakam to 
protect her by refusing it.
Oakam has told us that the presence of the note from February 2018 was one of the reasons it 
decided to uphold her complaint for loans 5 and 6.Page 5 of 7So, I do think that it would be fair and reasonable, and within this Services approach, to direct that 
Oakam refunds all the money Miss T has repaid on loans 5 and 6. Thats because its clear to me that 
Miss T didnt want the loans and didnt benefit from the lending, and its clear that Oakam knew that 
before it agreed to lend.
And it follows that its not fair or reasonable for the loans to remain on her credit file as Oakam agrees 
that these were lent outside of its policy. So, I am planning to direct that all the monies are returned to 
Miss T for loans 5 and 6 and that they are removed from her credit file.
For loans 2 to 4 I have thought carefully about this element and the suitable redress for them. These 
two loans differ in that they pre-date the account note of February 2018. Oakam says:
the first instance where we believe we could have reasonably been aware there was the 
potential for coercion is on 6 February 2018.
Since that explanation to us, Oakam has accepted that it lent to Miss T irresponsibly for loans 2 to 4 
(as well as loans 5 and 6). And here is where I have considered the evidence Miss T has given us 
about what happened in store when she applied for Loan 1.
Miss Ts explanations are plausible and the nature of the relationship between her and her former 
partner appear to have been investigated by the police and it has cause for concern. I have been 
informed of that by the police. So, I have no reason to doubt that the events in the Oakam store when 
she applied for Loan 1 were as Miss T described them to be.
My view is that although the information Miss T has described to us about what happened when she 
approached Oakam for loan 1 may not be enough for us to make a finding about irresponsible lending 
for that first loan, it is cogent information which, as the lending relationship between Miss T and 
Oakam progressed, takes on greater significance.
I do consider it unusual for a borrower to return to the lender just a few weeks into a 52 week 
arrangement, still with a large outstanding balance, and wanting to take out a further loan for an even 
longer period. This was what Miss T did. Theres little logic there.
And as has been outlined by our adjudicator, at that stage a full review of Miss Ts financial situation 
was warranted in April 2017 when Miss T applied for Loan 2. We do not think that was done by 
Oakam and so I have considered carefully what I think Oakam may have discovered if it had probed 
further.
On balance, I think that additional checks and further probing would likely have revealed the difficult 
situation Miss T found herself in where she did appear to be coerced into applying for and accepting 
loans for the benefit of a third party. And, I think, given the opportunity, its likely she would have told 
Oakam the information she did give Oakam in February 2018 earlier than that date.
So, I do think that the redress in relation to each of these loans 2 to 6 should be the same which is 
that Oakam refunds to Miss T all the repayments she made in relation to loans 2 to 4 as well as 
loans 5 and 6. Thats because Im satisfied, on current evidence, that had Oakam carried out proper 
checks and considered the information available, it wouldnt or shouldnt have lent the money to 
Miss T.  So, I dont think its fair that she had to pay the interest.
And Im also satisfied that the money borrowed didnt go to Miss T: it went to her abusive partner and 
Miss T did not benefit from it. If Oakam had not lent, she would not have received and then given up 
the capital to the other party, and I dont think its fair she should have had to repay it in these 
circumstances.
So, I am planning to direct that the redress and credit file corrections are the same for loans 2 to 4 as 
well as loans 5 and 6.Page 6 of 7What my decision is now. 
I have indicated earlier in this decision that Oakam has told us it has nothing further to add 
following receipt of my provisional decision and Miss T has told us that she accepts it. 
As I have received nothing further from either party then I see no reason to alter my 
provisional findings. Those are repeated here and form part of my final decision. 
For the reasons given, I uphold Miss Ts complaint for loans 2 to 6 and I set out below what 
Oakam needs to do to put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Oakam should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending Miss T from loan 2, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss T may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, Miss T may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing).
But even if she had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Miss T in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Miss T would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options.
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Oakams liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Oakam ought to do as follows:
refund all payments paid on loans 2 to 6; and
pay interest of 8% simple a year* on any refunded capital, interest and charges from 
the date they were paid to the date of settlement; and
remove all reference to loans 2 to 6 from Miss Ts credit file; and
pay a money award to Miss T of £750.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakam to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Miss T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
As the money award of £750 is not a refund of interest then I do not consider that the HMRC
deduction applies to that money award.Page 7 of 7My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ts complaint in part and I direct that Oakam Ltd does 
as I have outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman