DRN-2922045
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with how Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, handled events 
surrounding his request to transfer his ISA to a different provider.
What happened
Mr O wanted to transfer his ISA from Halifax to another ISA provider. Mr O initially intended 
to transfer his ISA to one provider (Provider A) and made an instruction to Provider A 
accordingly. However, Mr O subsequently contacted Provider A and cancelled his instruction 
with them, choosing instead to attempt to transfer his ISA to a different provider (Provider 
B) whom Mr O instructed to contact Halifax and arrange the ISA transfer to them on his 
behalf.
Provider B did contact Halifax, but Halifax didnt process the ISA transfer to them. When Mr 
O contacted Halifax about this, he discovered he Halifax had transferred his ISA to Provider 
A  and not to Provider B as Mr O had wanted. Mr O wasnt happy about this, so he raised a 
complaint.
Halifax looked at Mr Os complaint. But they noted that they had never been told by Mr O 
that he had cancelled the instruction to transfer the ISA to Provider A, and that they had 
received a valid ISA transfer request from Provider A which they had processed accordingly. 
Because of this, Halifax felt that they hadnt done anything wrong with regard how theyd 
transferred Mr Os ISA, so they didnt uphold this aspect of Mr Os complaint.
Halifax did acknowledge that Mr O had received conflicting information from Halifax staff 
when he had contacted them to try to resolve this issue, and Halifax felt that Mr O had been 
unreasonably inconvenienced as a result. So, Halifax made a payment of £150 to Mr O to 
compensate him for the standard of communication hes received. 
Mr O wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, and he was unhappy that the complaint 
correspondence hed sent for the attention of Halifaxs CEO hadnt been acknowledged by 
the CEOs office. Mr O also felt that Halifaxs own internal processes had hampered the 
transfer of his ISA to his intended destination  Provider B  and that Halifaxs errors had led 
to him being denied access to his ISA funds. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Halifax hadnt acted 
unfairly in processing the ISA transfer request that theyd received from Provider A, and they 
didnt feel that Halifax could fairly be held accountable for any period that Mr O hadnt been 
able to access his ISA funds. So, they also didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. Additionally, our 
investigator noted that Mr Os complaint points relating to how Halifax had handled his 
complaint fell outside the remit of this service and so werent points that they were able to 
consider.
Mr O remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O has provided several detailed submissions to this service. Id like to thank Mr O for his 
thoroughness in providing these submissions, and I hope that Mr O wont consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint  in line with this services role as a quick 
and informal dispute resolution service.
This means that if Mr O notes that, during the course of this letter, I havent addressed a 
specific point that hes raised, it shouldnt be taken that I havent read and considered that 
point  I can confirm that Ive read and considered all the submissions made by both Mr O 
and Halifax  but rather that I dont consider it necessary to address that point directly to 
arrive at what I feel is a fair outcome, given the circumstances here.
I also feel that its important to confirm what our investigator previously explained to Mr O 
regarding what this service can and cannot investigate. The remit of this service is defined in 
the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook. 
The relevant consequence of this services remit, as defined in the Handbook, is that were 
unable to consider aspects of a complaint that relate to how a business has handled that or 
other complaints. This is because how a business handles a complaint is not a regulated 
activity as defined by the FCA Handbook. 
Mr O has expressed his dissatisfaction at how Halifax have handled his complaint, including 
that he doesnt feel that his complaint has been read and understood by the office of the 
CEO of Halifax. Whilst its clear from his correspondence with this service that Mr O feels 
strongly about these aspects of his complaint, these are all aspects of Mr Os complaint that 
relate to how Halifax have handled his complaint. This means that these aspects of Mr Os 
complaint fall outside the remit of what this service can investigate, and so I have not 
considered these points further and will not refer to them again.
Similarly, Mr O has expressed his dissatisfaction about Halifaxs internal processes which he 
believes have caused him to incur detriment and which Halifax should amend to prevent 
further detriment being caused to himself and other Halifax customers moving forwards. 
Again, I can appreciate Mr Os intentions here, but it isnt within the remit of this service to 
instruct a business to amend its internal process. And this is because how a business 
chooses to operate is a commercial decision which that business is entitled to make.
What this service can investigate are the events that prompted Mr O to raise his complaint, 
which in this case include Halifax not transferring Mr Os ISA to Provider B when they 
contacted Halifax to arrange this, and also Halifax subsequently processing an ISA transfer 
to Provider A  even though Mr O had contacted provider A to cancel his transfer request.
However, regarding the first of these points, Halifax have been able to demonstrate that they 
were unable to process the ISA transfer to Provider B as Mr O would have liked because the 
account information supplied by Provider B in their transfer requests was incorrect.
Furthermore, Halifax have also been able to demonstrate that they did receive a valid 
transfer request from Provider A. And, while Mr O had contacted Provider A to cancel his 
transfer request to them, Mr O hadnt informed Halifax that any transfer requests received 
from Provider A shouldnt be processed. As such, its very difficult for me to conclude that 
Halifax did anything wrong in transferring the ISA to Provider A, given that they received a 
valid transfer request from Provider A and that they werent aware of any reason why they 
wouldnt process such a request. Mr O has stated that he feels that Halifaxs handling of his complaint caused delays in his 
being able to access his ISA funds. However, Mr Os ISA had already been transferred by 
Halifax to Provider A by the time that Mr O made his complaint to Halifax, and so it cant be 
the case that his complaint delayed the transfer  because the transfer had already taken 
place.
Also, if its the case that Mr O is referring to a desire to have Halifax recover the transferred 
funds and then re-transfer them to Provider B, Halifax have confirmed that the cheque sent 
to Provider A was cashed by Provider A and that the transfer was therefore completed. 
As such, at that time, it would have been incumbent on Mr O to have arranged the transfer of 
his ISA funds with Provider A directly, either to Provider B or back to Halifax if Mr O so 
wished  although Halifax confirmed to Mr O in their complaint response letter dated 21 
November 2020 that Mr O would have to open a new ISA account with Halifax and then 
instruct an ISA transfer from Provider A, given that Provider A were the holders of Mr Os 
ISA at that time.
Finally, I note that, regarding the matter of the £150 compensation that Halifax have paid to 
Mr O for the standard of communication that he received, Mr O hasnt stated his 
dissatisfaction with this amount  although I do also note that such a compensation amount 
is commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances of its award.
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that Halifax have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in how theyve processed Mr Os ISA transfer here. And this, coupled with the 
fact that a significant portion of Mr Os complaint points fall outside the remit of this service, 
as previously explained, means that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Halifax to 
take any further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr O was wanting here, but I hope that he will 
understand, given what Ive explained above, why I have made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman