DRN-3642216
The complaint
Mr R and Ms N are unhappy with the settlement provided to them, under a travel insurance 
policy held with Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A 
(Mapfre). Mr R and Ms N have also said that Mapfre caused them to be stranded abroad  
meaning they suffered both financial loss and emotional strain.
What happened
Mr R and Ms N held an annual multi-trip insurance policy with Mapfre. The policy provided 
them with cover for various risks, between 31 January 2020 and 30 January 2021. 
During this policy period, Mr R and Ms N took a trip abroad. They flew out on holiday on 10 
February 2020. And were due to fly back to the UK on 30 March 2020. But, a week before 
Mr R and Ms Ns return flight, the country they were visiting closed its borders  due to the 
Coronavirus pandemic. And on 30 March, when they were due to return home, a total 
lockdown was imposed. As a result of the pandemic  the airline cancelled Mr R and Ms Ns 
flight home. So, they were left abroad. 
Mr R and Ms N have provided a detailed explanation of what happened following this. But in 
summary, Mr R and Ms N have said:
They attempted to arrange an earlier flight home, prior to the lockdown. But this was 
unsuccessful. So, they were left with no option but to remain abroad, after their 
original departure date.
They contacted Mapfre, as their insurer, to make a claim, and seek assistance. 
Mapfre told them to register with the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development 
Office (FCDO) for repatriation flights. And Mr R and Ms N did so. But no flights were 
scheduled initially.
In late May 2020, they were informed by the FCDO that some repatriation flights 
would be scheduled for early June 2020. And they could book onto these. 
They informed Mapfre of the repatriation flights, who said Mr R and Ms N would need 
to book the flight themselves, and then claim it back under their policy. But this didnt 
seem right. So, Mr R and Ms N checked with the FCDO, and were informed that 
Mapfre could book and pay for the flights directly.
They let Mapfre know this. But Mapfre didnt get back to them in time. Worried about 
this, Mr R and Ms N tried to book the flight themselves, but the booking portal had 
closed by that point. So, they were left stranded abroad. 
Because of the above, Mr R and Ms N feel that Mapfre caused them to be stuck abroad  
from June 2020, until they were finally able to return home in November 2020. Theyve said 
that Mapfre did pay for their accommodation during their extended stay abroad. As well as 
for their return home. But they were still left with significant losses. 
The main loss being for food. Mr R and Ms N said the food was more expensive abroad than 
at home. So, they said they paid around £400 extra a month in food bills, in order to eat. 
They felt Mapfre should cover this cost. As well as compensate them for the distress and 
inconvenience their extended stay abroad had caused.
Mapfre considered the matter but didnt agree. It said Mr R and Ms N could have booked the 
repatriation flight in June 2020, and claimed the costs back, as it had informed them to. It 
said that following this, is made sustained attempts to return Mr R and Ms N to the UK. And, 
it said that despite the policy not providing cover, other than £1,000, it had paid for all of the 
accommodation costs that it didnt have to. So, it said it would not be providing settlement for 
any food costs - which the policy didnt cover. 
Mr R and Ms N didnt agree. So, they raised a complaint with Mapfre. Its position remained 
the same. So, Mr R and Ms N referred their complaint to this service, for an independent 
review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator noted the policy only provided cover up to £1,000. And Mapfre had settled costs 
that were more than this. They said the policy didnt provide cover for food costs. And that it 
seemed reasonable that Mr R and Ms N could have purchased the repatriation flights in 
June 2020, and then claimed them back. So, they didnt consider Mapfre had made a 
mistake that left Mr R and Ms N stranded abroad.
Mr R and Ms N didnt agree. They raised a number of points. For example, they said that 
their policy provided cover for up to £7,500 per person (minus an excess), under the 
cancellation and curtailment section of their policy. And that Mapfe had confirmed this to 
them. Mr R and Ms N also noted that Mapfre had told them they would pay for their flight 
home, and then gone against this, meaning they were stuck abroad. And they didnt have 
the means at the time to pay for their own return flight.
Because Mr R and Ms N remained dissatisfied, this complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate this is likely to come 
as a disappointment to Mr R and Ms N. Its clear they feel strongly about the matter. And 
theyve explained how difficult the situation was for them. But I have considered all 
information provided. Ive explained my decision below  only referencing what I consider 
necessary to explain my reasoning.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether Mapfre 
acted in line with these requirements, when it declined to settle food costs as part of Mr R 
and Ms Ns claim.
Firstly, its important to note that Mapfre have provided settlement for Mr R and Ms Ns 
accommodation during their extended stay. And their repatriation journey. As these have 
been accepted and settled, I havent needed to consider these further. They arent in 
dispute.
Instead, Ive needed to consider whether Mapfre should have reasonably settled the 
additional food costs Mr R and Ms N are claiming for. As well as whether Mapfre acted in a way which meant it would be reasonable to compensate Mr R and Ms N for the impact the 
experience had on them.
Food costs
Ive reviewed Mr R and Ms Ns policy documentation. And on doing so, Im aware the policy 
doesnt provide cover for the cost of food  in any situation, and under any relevant section. 
This isnt unusual for policies of this nature. So, Im satisfied that Mapfre has acted in line 
with the policy, in not providing settlement for the food costs Mr R and Ms N have said they 
incurred here.
Mr R and Ms N have acknowledged that the policy doesnt usually provide cover for food 
costs. But they consider that Mapfre should make an exception in their circumstances. 
Theyve said this should be the case, because Mapfre made a mistake with the initial 
repatriation flights. And said if Mapfre hadnt made this mistake  they would have come 
home, and additional food costs would not have occurred, between June 2020 and 
November 2020.
So, Ive considered this. But I dont think Mapfre did anything wrong it how it dealt with the 
initial repatriation flights. So, I dont think it is responsible for the additional food costs. I say 
this, having seen the email communications between Mr R, Ms N and Mapfre.
On 26 May 2020, Ms N emailed Mapfre again  with a link to an FCDO booking portal for 
repatriation flight. They asked for Mapfre to book the flight.
Mapfre responded to this email promptly  35 minutes later. It told Mr R and Ms N that they 
should book the flight and claim the cost back from Mapfe. At this point, Im satisfied it was 
clear to Mr R and Ms N that they should book the flights. So, Im satisfied they could have 
done so. 
Mr R and Ms N have said this wasnt possible for them to do. But I cant see in any email 
correspondence that they told Mapfre they couldnt do this, because of their circumstances. 
And given Mr R and Ms N sourced their own funds for food costs, as well as other expenses, 
after June 2020, Im satisfied it would be been possible for them to have purchased the flight 
as advised. 
Mr R and Ms N have said that when telling them to book their repatriation flight, Mapfre 
provided incorrect information, saying it wasnt able to book the flight for Mr R and Ms N, 
because the government wasnt allowing this. Mr R and Ms N said this information was 
wrong. And they contacted Mapfre to let them know this. 
Ms N did email Mapfre about this  around 24 hours after Mapfre had told Ms N to book the 
flight. Mr R and Ms N chased Mapfre for a response in the early hours of 28 May 2020. 
Mapfre responded, pre 8am on 28 May 2020, and said it would ask its travel agents. But 
reiterated that its standard advice was for Mr R and Ms N to book the flights. 
I appreciate Mr R and Ms N were awaiting Mapfres response following this. But given that 
Mapfre had twice informed Mr R and Ms N to book the flights at this stage, Im satisfied 
Mapfre had provided enough information for Mr R and Ms N to go ahead with the booking. 
And, I dont think Mapfre delayed communications here. It responded in less than 24 hours.
It isnt unusual for an insurer to ask a policyholder to pay for a flight, and then claim this 
back. And this is further illustrated by an email the FCDO provided to Mr R and Ms N. This 
said:Other British Nationals at that time were confirming with us that their Travel Insurance 
companies were purchasing their tickets and or reimbursing them on their return to the UK 
once they can product documents.
So, whilst it may have been possible for Mapfre to book the flight, it was fair for Mapfre to 
ask for the booking to be completed as it did. As I dont think Mapfre acted incorrectly, it 
follows that Mapfre shouldnt pay additional food costs  which are over and above any 
cover under the policy.
Im aware Mapfre did make repeated attempts to get Mr R and Ms N home, after they 
missed the initial flights in June 2020. It arranged a flight for July 2020. But Ms N was 
unfortunately poorly and couldnt make the flight. In August 2020 a potential repatriation 
flight Mapfre tried to secure didnt go ahead. And when a flight finally was available, in 
November 2020, Mapfre ensured Mr R and Ms N were on it. So, Im satisfied Mapfre didnt 
cause Mr R and Ms N to stay abroad avoidably following June 2020 either. 
As above, Mapfre did get Mr R and Ms N home in November 2020, on the next available and 
viable flight. So, whilst I appreciate Mr R and Ms Ns additional food costs, this isnt 
something I find Mapfre should pay. I dont think it acted unreasonably. And the policy 
doesnt provide cover for food costs. So, I dont require Mapfre to do anything more here.
Compensation?
Mr R and Ms N have raised how distressing the delayed stay abroad was for them. And I 
have no doubt this was the case. Ive read all of their submissions, which explain how 
difficult the situation was. And I have sympathy for the situation Mr R and Ms N found 
themselves in. 
But, to hold Mapfre accountable for this distress and inconvenience experienced, I would 
need to be satisfied it had done something wrong. And as above, I dont think it did.
Mapfre acted promptly and fairly  in line with rules. From reviewing the email conversations 
between Mapfre, Mr R and Ms N, Im satisfied Mapfre was clear in terms of what it was and 
wasnt covering. It made it clear when the policy didnt cover something  like clothing or car 
hire costs. And it kept in regular contact with Mr R and Ms N, acting promptly in its 
communications. 
It was unfortunate that Mr R and Ms N had to stay abroad for much longer than planned  for 
reasons related to the Coronavirus Pandemic. But, as I find that Mapfre acted fairly here, I 
dont require it to pay any compensation in relation to the issue. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A to do anything 
more in relation to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Ms N to accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman