DRN-3979702
The complaint
Mr Y says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unfairly blocked payments he tried to 
make from his bank accounts to a cryptocurrency exchange. Halifax then also blocked the 
accounts themselves.
What happened
While abroad, Mr Y called Halifax in November 2021, after discovering online payments hed 
intended to make from his accounts to a cryptocurrency exchange had been blocked. 
Because Halifax became suspicious during the call, it blocked his accounts so they couldnt 
be used, it said, until he could attend one of its branches in person with appropriate 
identification documentation (ID). 
Alleging that hed lost out on an investment opportunity due to Halifaxs actions, Mr Y made 
a complaint. 
On considering Mr Ys complaint, Halifax replied that it had reasonably decided to block the 
payments and so compensation for his investment loss wasnt payable. But Halifax 
apologised to him for not providing better service when he contacted it on multiple occasions 
and offered compensation of £250 in total, comprising £150 for distress and £100 for 
expenses. 
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, Mr Y complained to this service. He said hed been 
impacted financially as hed been unable to make two investments. He also wanted more 
compensation for the time and distress caused by pursuing the matter. An investigator 
looked into the complaint and didnt recommend that it should be upheld. They believed 
Halifax had acted fairly given the perceived threat posed to Mr Ys account and his 
responses to further questioning from Halifax. They felt the amount of compensation Halifax 
had offered was fair and didnt think any further compensation was due.
As Mr Y was unhappy with the investigators findings, the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh and reach a decision. Among other things, Mr Y said the restrictions added by 
Halifax appeared to be random and only affected some transactions. He said he expected 
greater clarity about why his account had been restricted and that hed been inconvenienced 
by not being able to spend his money at what he considered to be reputable regulated 
exchanges.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ys raised several questions and points about the actions of Halifax, all of which Ive 
considered. But Im not required to address them all in this decision, and instead Ive 
focussed on the issues I believe go to the heart of his complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I recognise how frustrating it must have been for Mr Y to discover that he couldnt use the 
money in his accounts as he wanted to. And I gather Halifax had allowed cryptocurrency-
related payments to be made from his accounts prior to the restrictions being added. 
Im also mindful that banks owe certain duties to their customers. For example, at a high 
level the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) requires financial businesses to conduct their 
business with due skill, care, and diligence. They must also take reasonable care to organise 
and control affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems. 
While buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity, its nevertheless for Halifax to intervene 
where necessary with a view to protecting its customers  including Mr Y  from financial 
harm.
This is also reflected, for instance, in the terms and conditions of Mr Ys current account. 
Among other things they say Halifax can refuse to make a payment if its internal security 
controls require him to produce additional ID or prevent it from carrying out the transaction. 
From experience, such terms are commonly included in account agreements. 
Balancing the need for both convenience and security can sometimes pose problems for 
banks and their customers. But from the information Ive seen, I dont find that Halifax was 
wrong to add the account blocks that it did in trying to protect Mr Y and his accounts. 
That said, Ive also considered the way in which Halifax applied the account restrictions that 
it did. And how Halifax communicated with Mr Y about the restrictions. In doing so, Ive 
placed emphasis on recordings of the calls made between him and Halifax and especially on 
his initial call with a representative of Halifaxs fraud team.  
Overall, I think the fraud team representative was justified in becoming suspicious of the 
circumstances of Mr Ys call. Not least because other voices could be heard on the line due 
to Mr Y being abroad and having to make the call through a third-party. In addition, I can 
understand why the representative considered that Mr Y hadnt been forthcoming with 
information earlier in the call when it later became apparent that he wasnt in the UK and 
was calling from overseas. Nevertheless, I also understand why Mr Y felt the representative 
was rude at times and unnecessarily confrontational and I believe this led to relations 
between them quickly becoming strained. I think this caused what was already a difficult 
situation for Mr Y to become worse.  
I note that Mr Ys also unhappy with, for example, other calls he had with Halifax, wait times 
and the information he was given.
Although I dont consider that Halifax was at fault for stopping Mr Ys payments  or any 
financial loss he may have suffered as a result  I do think Halifax could have handled 
matters better than it did. I recognise that Mr Y doesnt believe that the offer made is fair. 
And its seldom easy to quantify distress and inconvenience caused to an individual. But 
taking everything into account, including the impact of Halifaxs actions on Mr Y, the 
subsequent removal of the account blocks days later and its apology for how it dealt with 
things, Im persuaded that its overall offer of £250 is fair in the circumstances. I dont think it 
need pay any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman