DRN-2369980
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the delays caused by esure Insurance Limited (esure) in relation to a 
claim he made for his car which caught fire. 
What happened
On 15 May 2020, Mr F made a claim on his car insurance policy as there was fire in the 
engine. He was informed by esure that his car was a total loss. 
Mr F was told his car would be collected after five days and as he was entitled to receive a 
courtesy car, esure provided this for 21 days. There was a delay in Mr Fs car being 
collected and it took 20 days instead of the five days which he was told. The courtesy car 
was therefore extended for a further 10 days.
Esure informed Mr F that he would receive a valuation on his car after six days but after 10 
days had passed, he made a complaint. Mr F was relying on getting a grant to help with the 
purchase of a new car and the delays were adding unnecessary stress and anxiety.
Mr F wasnt happy with the £100 payment esure made for the delays caused and he said 
this had an impact on him and his son. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought esure 
had done enough to rectify the delays caused and £100 was a fair and reasonable 
compensation in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Mr F didnt agree with the investigator and has asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue I need to decide is whether £100 is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
errors caused by esure in dealing with Mr Fs claim for damage to his car. 
I can see that esure accepted the car should have been picked up sooner. However there 
was an error where the instruction wasnt sent as soon as it was received. I understand this 
was down to human error. So theres no doubt that delays were caused. 
There was also the issue with the courtesy car but because the car wasnt collected as it 
should have been, esure extended the time Mr F could have the car for a further 10 days. 
Nevertheless Mr F was left without a car for five days in between. From my understanding of 
whats happened, esure has accepted this delay also. 
Im satisfied for both the initial error and the delays caused that £100 is fair and reasonable 
compensation in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr F has said that additional stress was caused because he was due to receive help through 
the Army Cadet Force in the form of a grant. As delays were caused by esure, Mr F was 
unsure whether that help would remain. I appreciate the worry this may have caused by I 
can also see that eventually he did still receive the grant. I dont think therefore esure 
needed to do anything more in this regard as Mr F did receive the grant. 
Ive also taken into account that Mr F has had additional worries and stress causing his 
mental health to suffer. Being left without a car and not wanting to use public transport in 
these difficult times is understandable. Overall, however, having considered everything, Im 
satisfied that £100 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and for the 
errors esure made. As such, I dont require esure to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint against esure Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman