DRN-3697919
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with how American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) dealt with 
her request for a refund of a payment she made using her Amex credit card.
What happened
In January 2020, Mrs S booked return flights with an airline Ill call B. The flights were for an 
overseas holiday. She used her Amex credit card to pay £558.05 for the flights. The 
outgoing flight was booked for late August 2020, with the return flight around two weeks 
later.
After the start of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mrs Ss holiday was unfortunately cancelled. She 
emailed B asking if she could get a refund for her flights or change them to the following 
year. She told us that when she didnt get a reply she went onto Bs website, but the only 
option she was given was for a flight credit voucher. The flights were then cancelled by B 
some weeks later.
 
Mrs S then got in touch with Amex to ask for her money back for these flights and also for 
other flights with both B and another airline. She told us she later got refunds for the other 
flights but not for the flights detailed above. Mrs S raised a complaint with Amex. Briefly, it 
said that shed accepted the flight credit, so no refund was due. Mrs S wasnt happy with this 
and brought her complaint to our service. She said she didnt accept the vouchers  she 
wanted a refund, but vouchers were the only option she was given. She told us she wanted 
a full refund like shes received from other companies.
 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ss case. He didnt think Amex needed to do 
anything. In brief, he said Mrs S made the decision to accept vouchers before B had 
cancelled the flights, and this meant that no cash refund was due. Mrs S didnt accept this. 
She repeated that shed got refunds for other flights and other people had also got refunds 
after accepting vouchers.
 
As the matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. First, Im very aware Ive 
summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been provided, and largely in 
my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is at 
the heart of the matter here: has Amex treated Mrs S unreasonably by not giving her a 
refund?
If theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every 
individual detail. Ive focussed on those that are central to me reaching what I think is the 
right outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
As Mrs S used her credit card to pay for the disputed flights, Amex had two options to 
pursue a refund for her  by raising a chargeback or looking at giving her a refund under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). Its usual to try a chargeback first.
A chargeback is a way in which payment settlement disputes can be resolved between card 
issuers, such as Amex, and merchants, such as B. These disputes are dealt with under the 
relevant card scheme rules. The card scheme here is also Amex. In certain circumstances, 
this process provides a way for Amex to ask B to give Mrs S a refund. This would include 
where goods or services arent supplied.
 
A chargeback isnt a consumer right. It doesnt guarantee a refund. Instead, its a process 
run entirely by Amex under the rules that it sets. I would point out that Amex is under no 
obligation to submit a chargeback. But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to 
be attempted where the right exists and there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Amex has told us it didnt raise a chargeback. Im satisfied it didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably by not raising a chargeback as I dont think there was a reasonable prospect 
of success. I say this because B told Amex that Mrs S had chosen to accept vouchers before 
the flights were cancelled, and that the vouchers couldnt then be exchanged for a cash 
refund.
 
Ive looked at Amexs records. These indicate Mrs S applied for vouchers for the disputed 
flight via Bs website in May and June 2020. B emailed the voucher to her on 16 June 2020. I 
can see that the outbound flight Mrs S had booked was cancelled in early July 2020 with the 
return flight being cancelled the following month. The key point here is that at the time they 
were cancelled, Mrs S no longer had an active reservation on either flight as, by this point 
shed accepted the voucher. If Amex had raised a chargeback, it would simply have been 
defended by B on the grounds that no refund was due.
 
Ill now turn to Section 75. This sets out that in certain circumstances, as the finance 
provider, Amex is jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier, B. Im satisfied those circumstances are present here. Theres no suggestion of a 
misrepresentation here, nor does the available evidence indicate one. So, Ive thought about 
if theres been a breach of contract.
 
Mrs S booked the tickets with B in January 2020. Ive looked at Bs website from the time of 
the booking. This states that its lowest priced tickets are generally non-refundable if the 
customer, in this case Mrs S, wanted to cancel them. Theres also nothing in the available 
evidence to suggest the terms and conditions of her booking allowed her to cancel them and 
get a refund. This is consistent with Bs website only giving Mrs S the option of asking for a 
voucher. So, on balance, Im satisfied Mrs Ss tickets were non-refundable.
 
Mrs S was emailed the voucher in June 2020. At this point the flights were still going ahead. 
As the tickets were non-refundable, no cash refund was due to her. When the flights were 
later cancelled, Mrs S wasnt due a cash refund because, as Ive said above, by this point 
she wasnt a passenger on either flight as she no longer had a valid reservation  and the 
voucher couldnt be exchanged for cash. Taking all this into account, Im satisfied there 
wasnt a breach of contract.
 
As Im satisfied there was no breach of contract and no misrepresentation, it follows that Im 
also satisfied Amex hasnt treated Mrs S unfairly or unreasonably by not giving her a refund 
under Section 75.I know Mrs S has told us she has received a refund for other flights with B, but the available 
evidence points to one important difference to the situation Ive outlined above. From the 
evidence she sent to us, I can see the other flight mentioned by Mrs S that she was booked 
on was cancelled by B. So, she got a refund for this other flight because she had a seat 
booked on it at the time it was cancelled. But as Ive already said, in the situation above, 
when B cancelled the disputed flights, Mrs S didnt have seats booked as shed already been 
given a voucher instead, meaning no refund was due.
 
Finally, I can see Mrs S has used part of the credit from the voucher B sent to her. It seems 
there is a balance of £331.28 left for her to use. I understand this can be used for flights up 
until the end of September 2023.
 
In summary, Im satisfied Amex hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably by not giving Mrs S a 
refund. I really do understand her strength of feeling here and appreciate the situation she 
found herself in. But, for the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
This final decision ends the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. This 
means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023. 
John Miles
Ombudsman