DRN-3076163
The complaint
Mr H has complained that the Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) refused to pay for damage to his 
alloy wheel under his SMART repair insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H noticed damage to the offside rear wheel on his vehicle. So, he submitted a claim 
under his SMART repair insurance. He filled in the claim form and sent Lloyds photos of the 
damaged wheel as required.
Lloyds considered Mr Hs claim and declined it under the terms and conditions of the policy. 
It said the photos provided by Mr H showed that the damaged area was corroded, and this 
was excluded under the policy. Lloyds also stated that the policy had a 30-day reporting 
period and it believed the damage reported had occurred outside of this 30-day period. 
Mr H remained unhappy, so he brought a complaint to this service. An investigator 
considered Mr Hs complaint but said Lloyds had made a fair and reasonable decision as 
per the policy terms and conditions.  
However, Mr H doesnt agree, and hes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I have first looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Hs SMART repair policy. Lloyds has 
explained that it declined Mr Hs claim as the damage to his alloy wheel is showing evidence 
of corrosion. Lloyds say water has gotten in behind the lacquer on the wheel and corrosion 
has become ingrained in the metal. Lloyds say this is difficult to repair and its specifically 
not repairable using a SMART repair. 
The relevant section of the terms and conditions state:
What is NOT covered
Damage that has been accumulated over an extended period (wear and tear), hail
rust, corrosion, a defect or neglect, or damage caused by, or to, stickers and decals.
The policy terms and conditions also state:
Any claims where the minor cosmetic damage, or damage to the alloy wheels
occurred outside of the period of cover, or more that 30 days before the claim is
reported.
Mr H says that he reported the damage as soon as he noticed it. He says he didnt use the 
vehicle every often during the national lockdown and he only noticed the damage one day 
when he was washing the car. He says that the damage is clearly sudden and unforeseen, 
and the corrosion only happened after the lacquer on the outside of the wheel became 
broken or cracked. He says that the wheel was never physically inspected, and the decision 
was made using photographs only. He says these photos were taken from a low pixel 
camera phone, and he disputes the clarity of the photos. Mr H also argues that the 30-day 
reporting period should only start from when hes noticed the damage, and its impossible to 
start the clock ticking before that point. 
I can see Lloyds assessed Mr Hs claim using the photographs he provided. Desktop 
inspection is a normal method of inspection and it isnt unusual for claims to be assessed in 
this way. And as the photographs show the damage clearly, Im not convinced that the 
quality of the pictures is as poor as Mr H thinks. So, I dont think it was unreasonable to 
assess the damage using them. 
I acknowledge Mr Hs point about the 30-day reporting period. I believe his testimony and its 
highly likely that he spotted the damage as explained and reported it as soon as he could. 
But the reason the reporting period is so important is specifically to do with the method used 
to repair damage under these types of policy. The method is SMART, and this stands for 
small, medium repair technology. When looking to repair using SMART technology the 
normal criteria is that the damage is cosmetic only and within the scope of the smart repair 
methods used. Most importantly the repair material being used, whether its a build-up filler 
or a spray, has to be able to bond with the material being repaired.
And this is where the problems with corrosion come into play. In short if the damaged area 
becomes corroded, there will be bonding problems and as such a SMART repair isnt 
suitable. So thats why corrosion damage is excluded. A SMART repair just doesnt repair 
the problem correctly when theres corrosion present. And this is also the reason for the 30-
day reporting window. It may be possible to catch and repair the damage caused when the 
lacquer breaks or cracks if caught in time. However, over time water will get into the crack 
and the industry deems this to become a major problem once 30 days pass, as corrosion 
typically appears at this point. So once outside the 30 days this repair becomes impossible 
and is excluded. 
Because of this I think Lloyds has acted within the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining Mr Hs claim as corrosion is not covered. Had Mr H made his claim sooner, and 
before the corrosion occurred it is likely the repairs would have been covered under his 
policy. But the photos show corrosion has taken place in the damaged areas of the wheel. 
And given the extent of the corrosion shown in the photographs, Im think its more likely 
than not that this damage was caused outside of the 30 days reporting window.
So, on balance Im satisfied that Lloyds acted reasonably in declining Mr Hs claim. As such 
Im not going to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman