DRN-1929760
Complaint
Mr K says Elevate Credit International Limited trading at the time as Sunny irresponsibly 
lent to him.           
Background
This complaint is about one running credit facility (RCF) Sunny provided to Mr K. Mr K took it 
out on the 28 April 2014 and made six drawdowns on it. The last drawdown was taken on 27 
August 2014 and Mr K repaid the RCF in full in November 2014.
The RCF allows a consumer to either request funds up to their agreed credit limit in one go 
or take multiple drawdowns up to their limit. Mr K had a credit limit of £200. Each drawdown 
could be repaid via five monthly instalments. 
Our adjudicator didn't uphold Mr Ks complaint. She said that she thought Sunny had done 
all that was required of it in giving the RCF. She also didn't think there was anything in the 
way Mr K was using the account which would have alerted Sunny to the fact Mr K was 
having financial difficulties. 
Mr K disagreed with our adjudicator. He said whilst he understood what our adjudicator had 
said, the lenders should have carried out due diligence to understand his financial situation. 
He also explained hed had a similar case with another company who repaid all the interest 
on the money hed borrowed. 
Mr K asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
When Mr K took out his RCF there was an expectation that Sunny would review and monitor 
how Mr K was using the facility. CONC 6.7.2 says A firm must monitor a customers 
repayment record and take appropriate action where there are signs of actual or possible 
repayment difficulties. 
So it wasn't enough for Sunny to just assess the further lending based on what it knew when 
the RCF had initially been approved. In April 2014, and throughout, it needed to monitor how 
Mr K was using the facility - and then step in and provide help when or if it could see Mr K 
was or was likely having financial difficulties.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why below.
Before granting the RCF Sunny asked Mr K about his monthly income. It also completed a 
credit check. Mr K declared a monthly income of £1,030. Given this was the start of the 
lending relationship I dont think it was unreasonable for Sunny to have relied on the income 
information it was provided with. I can also see from the credit checks Sunny did that there 
was no evidence of any bankruptcy or debt management plans. So, I dont think at this point 
it wouldve been proportionate of Sunny to have verified what Mr K was saying about his 
income.
And to be clear, any outstanding loans appearing on Mr Ks credit file (if there were any at 
the time of the RCF) is not the same as the information a business may request from a 
Credit Reference Agency. The amount and type of information requested can vary from 
business to business depending on its own lending criteria, and this can also change over 
time. Based on my understanding of Sunnys credit checks from around this time, I cant 
fairly say that such information wouldve reasonably come to light. Therefore, I dont think Sunny was wrong to have initially approved the RCF but I have 
looked at how Mr K used the facility to see whether there were any signs of financial 
difficulties and therefore Sunny needed to step in and provide assistance. 
I can see that Mr K had a credit limit under the RCF of £200. He took one drawdown for the 
full amount in April 2014 when the facility was agreed. Following this, Mr K repaid this sum in 
full over the next two months. Two days after repaying the first drawdown he took a further 
£200 on 26 June 2014. He repaid some of this in July and then made a further drawdown of 
£75 on 7 August 2014. This brought Mr Ks balance to £188.25. Mr K then repaid this 
drawdown in full by 22 August before immediately taking a further drawdown on the same 
day of £100. Over the next few days Mr K borrowed £50 on 24 August 2014 and a further 
£50 on 27 August 2014 (taking him back up to the RCFs credit limit).  Mr K didnt repay 
these sums immediately. The balance in connection with these three drawdowns was repaid 
in November 2014. 
While Mr K made six drawdowns in less than four months, with the last being on 27 August 
2014 for £50, he never exceeded his agreed credit limit. Additionally, based on Mr Ks 
statement of account, it appears he was making use of and repaying the facility in line with 
the terms of the RCF. Mr K fell behind on some of his repayments after August and I think 
its possible the lending activity by August 2014 could have indicated that Mr Ks underlying 
financial situation was deteriorating. I dont think though there was quite enough evidence by 
this point to say that a pattern of unsustainable lending had become established given that 
Mr K hadn't breached his credit limit and hadn't had the facility for too long. 
At the time Mr K made his last drawdown in August 2014 that was the third occasion, hed 
reached his credit limit and this time in August the credit limit was reached by taking multiple 
smaller drawdowns in a short period of time - this was the first time Mr K had done that. So, 
Im not satisfied that this was enough to have raised concerns about his ability to meet his 
contractual repayments. So I dont think it was wrong for Sunny to have provided him with 
this final £50 or any of the drawdowns that he took before this one.
Overall, taking everything into account, I dont think it was wrong of Sunny to provide the 
RCF and I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about this facility. Ive also thought about what hes 
said about another case he had where he was repaid the interest on a loan in similar 
circumstances. But each case is decided on its own facts and merits and what applies in one 
case doesn't necessarily apply in another. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr K. But 
I hope that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision 
before 22 July 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman