DRN-1690684
The complaint
Mr T has complained about his mortgage account with Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as 
Virgin Money and referred to here as Virgin.
Mr T is unhappy that Virgin applied early repayment charges (ERCs) applied to his mortgage 
account after making overpayments, and about the way it has dealt with his complaint about 
this.
What happened
Mr T has a mortgage account with Virgin. The account terms and conditions allow him to 
make overpayments of up to 10% of the outstanding balance per annum without incurring an 
ERC. 
The complaint arose because on 30 May 2019 Mr T contacted Virgin about making an 
overpayment to his mortgage account. He was told that the maximum he could pay for that 
year without incurring an ERC was £12,640. On 1 June 2019 Mr T spoke to Virgin again 
when it was confirmed to Mr T that his monthly payment of £815.27 (which was more than 
the required monthly instalment) was still in place and would continue.
Its not disputed by Virgin that the agent Mr T spoke to on 1 June 2019 should have realised, 
after Mr T said he was paying £12,640 off his mortgage each month, that this would result in 
an ERC being applied to any subsequent overpayments for that year. Virgin accepts that this 
should have been explained to Mr T, so he could have reduced his direct debit in order to 
avoid any future ERC for the remainder of the 12-month period. Consequently Mr T was 
charged an ERC of £4.25 in July, August and September 2019. 
On 20 June 2019 Virgin wrote to Mr T confirming his new monthly payment from 1 July 2019 
(taking into account the capital reduction of £12,640). The letter also noted that Mr T was 
making an overpayment and that this would incur an ERC.
In October 2019 Mr T complained to Virgin about being charged the ERC between July-
September 2019. Virgin upheld the complaint. The bank was satisfied Mr T should have 
been told of the ERC implications on his future overpayments when he spoke to the bank on 
1 June 2019. Virgin apologised, refunded £12.75 for the ERCs and offered compensation of 
£100 for any trouble and upset caused to Mr T.
Mr T didnt think Virgin had done enough to remedy the situation. He asked Virgin if it could 
agree to £150 and asked if his direct debits could stay as they are. Virgin explained that it 
was collecting the exact mortgage payment and that if Mr T made further overpayments 
during the calendar year, an ERC would be charged. But after 1 January 2020 he would then 
be able to make overpayments up to 10% of the outstanding balance for that calendar year. 
Virgin said that the 10% allowance for 2020 was based on the outstanding balance at the 
year end, 31 December 2019. If Mr T wanted to make overpayments after that date, he 
would need to contact Virgin to find out the permitted 10% amount.
Mr T was still unhappy about Virgins response. He wanted his complaint dealt with by a 
senior person. Mr T also wanted clarification about the direct debit. He said I am completely 
unclear as to what to do with it, when, how much to reduce it to and for how long.
Virgin was satisfied it had answered Mr Ts complaint and so had nothing further to say, nor 
any additional compensation to offer.
Mr T complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at the 
complaint. She was satisfied that Virgin had made a mistake, but that it had put things right. 
The investigator didnt think £100 was sufficient compensation though, and asked Virgin to 
pay an additional £100  so £200 in total. Virgin agreed to do this.
Mr T didnt think this was a fair outcome. He wasnt satisfied that the investigator had carried 
out a proper investigation, and said she had made zero calculations to substantiate any 
figures.
As the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The substantive issue in this case  the application of three ERCs of £4.25 each in July, 
August and September 2019  has, Im satisfied, been put right. Virgin refunded the ERCs, 
and apologised to Mr T for the error made during the call on 1 June 2019 (as detailed 
above). 
Virgin also clarified that, from 1 January 2020, Mr T would be able to make further 
overpayments of up to 10% of the outstanding balance  and that this would be based on 
10% of the balance as at 31 December 2019. Virgin said that Mr T could ask Virgin after 
1 January 2020 what the balance was so that he could adjust his direct debit accordingly, 
should he wish to make overpayments.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Virgin has clearly explained to Mr T how he can make 
overpayments in 2020, and that he can overpay up to 10% of the outstanding balance 
without incurring an ERC. 
Ive noted that Mr T was unhappy at the way Virgin had dealt with his complaint, and wanted 
it escalated to senior level. I will explain here that the way in which Virgin deals with 
complaints isnt something that falls within the remit of the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Thats because complaint-handling isnt a regulated activity and so isnt covered under our 
rules. So although Ive noted Mr Ts dissatisfaction with how Virgin handled his complaint, I 
will make no further comment on that here.
Putting things right
As the issue relating to the ERCs has been resolved, the only remaining matter is how much 
compensation should be paid to Mr T for trouble and upset. Mr T wants Virgin to pay £300. 
Virgin has agreed to the investigators recommendation of £200.
Ive noted Mr T is unhappy that the investigator failed to carry out calculations when reaching 
her findings on his complaint. But compensation for trouble and upset isnt based on 
calculations; its based on what is considered fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the case. In this case, Im satisfied that compensation of £200 is fair, reasonable and proportionate to the trouble and upset caused to Mr T as a result of Virgins error in not 
explaining clearly enough the implications of the lump sum payment and direct debits during 
the call on 1 June 2019.
This means that I am not ordering Virgin to pay anything further, over and above the £200 
its already agreed to pay.
My final decision
My final decision is that, in full and final settlement of this complaint, Clydesdale Bank Plc 
(trading as Virgin Money) must pay Mr T compensation of £200 for trouble and upset. I make 
no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman