DRN-3445714
The complaint
Mr B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel 
system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr B is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around April 2018, Mr B was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr B decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In April 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Bs behalf under section 75 of the 
Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations about 
the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr B to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £8,625 to mislead Mr B, as when the 
interest was added the total cost was actually £12,495;
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding from the start;
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the finance agreement repayments costs; and
Mr B would be able to take the system with him if he moved.
The CMC also said that the above statements were terms of Mr Bs contract with P, which 
had all been breached. It added that Mr Bs roof had been damaged during installation, 
resulting in a leak, and this was a breach of contract. It asked for £4,500 to put this right. And 
it said that the salesman had failed to tell Mr B that the inverter would have to be replaced 
once during the lifespan of the system, at a cost to him of £1,000.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr B or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
However it offered £100 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint. And as a 
gesture of good will Shawbrook offered to carry out an inspection to see if any damage was 
caused during the installation. That offer does not appear to have been accepted.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr B and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view. It said that far from the system paying for 
itself during the ten year term of the loan, it would actually take 23 years.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr B paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr B could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr B and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
What happened?
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities 
 that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr B says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement, the solar quote, titled Your Bespoke Quote, and the 
Customer Assessment Sheet. Ive considered these, along with Mr Bs testimony and 
recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr B, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to him agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr Bs version 
of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
The Customer Assessment Sheet is a four-page document which includes a summary of the 
cost of the system and the estimated financial benefit of having it.The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
Mr B has said that the cost of the system was documented as £8,625, and that this was 
done to mislead him as this figure did not include any interest associated with the loan and 
so hid the true cost of the system, £12,495.
On balance, Im satisfied that Mr B was told that the overall cost of the system was 
£12,495.60. The quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement, 
which makes it clear that the cash price of the system is £8,625. It sets out a clear 
breakdown of the amount of credit provided, the total charge for credit, the monthly 
payments, and the total amount repayable, £12,495.60.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr Bs recollections, Im satisfied that they 
were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as 
set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that it would cost Mr B more than the cash price as he had 
decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan.
FIT payments and savings
Mr B has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on his electricity bills. Ive considered the 
quote and the Customer Assessment Sheet that were provided by P, as well as Mr Bs 
recollections of his meeting with Ps representative, to decide what is most likely to have 
been said.
The Customer Assessment Sheet shows, on the second page, the estimated total income 
and savings in the first year (£509.04), the monthly repayment under the loan agreement 
(£104), and then the first of those figures divided by 12 to give the corresponding monthly 
figure (i.e. £509 / 12 = £42.42).
So I think the Customer Assessment Sheet made it quite clear that the FIT income and 
savings from the system would not be enough to cover the loan payments.
Towards the end of the quote is a section titled Contract, which sets out the estimated 
income Mr B could expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system, as well as the 
savings on his electricity bills, in the first year. It says that the total benefit from the system 
(without any optional extras) in the first year will be £441.54. The difference between this 
figure and the £509.04 mentioned above is £67.50, which is the estimated saving from 
having an optional voltage optimiser. (That figure is given on page 6.)
Im satisfied that the quote also set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of 
£101.64. (This is slightly less than the £104 mentioned on the Customer Assessment Sheet, 
but for the purposes of this paragraph it makes no difference.) As a result, I am not able to 
conclude that Mr B was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT 
payments and utility bill savings. £441 in FIT income and savings in a year is clearly less 
than £1,200 in loan repayments over the same period.
Theres a section headed Finance repayments with three tables showing repayments over 
60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months as this is 
the length of the loan that Mr B entered into with Shawbrook (but Ive also shown another 
table below so that they can be compared with each other). This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 120 monthly payments of £101.64. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £104.13, but the difference  £2.49  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the ten year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment of £101.64, to give an average difference between the monthly 
return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative 
figure for every year of the loan, meaning that the system would never make enough money 
to cover the loan payments. The negative figures are shown in red; as can be seen in the 
adjacent table, positive figures are shown in green, so I think this is clear.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr B could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient to cover the 
monthly loan repayments. This supports my finding above that Mr B wasnt told that the FIT 
payments and savings would cover the loan repayments. Ive carefully thought about Mr Bs 
version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the sales 
process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably 
find that he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income 
alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr B that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £2.49 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mr B. 
On balance Im also satisfied that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out there would be a difference between the expected income and 
the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr B was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
Another page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system 
over 25 years. This shows that by the end of year 13 the overall benefits that Mr B could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the cash price of the system, £8,625. Again, the 
relevant figures are highlighted in red (in the years before that point) and in green (after).
From the same table it can also be seen that the overall benefits of the system would cover 
the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £12,495, after just over 16 years.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr B that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 13 years, and for the loan in about 16 years, as supported by the table above, which 
was included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this 
was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, then 
that could amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr B. The CMC has said that Mr B has still not received the financial 
returns he was expecting, and that it will take 23 years for the system to be self-funding. 
I have not seen evidence of how the system is performing in terms of FIT generation (as 
measured in kWh), so I cannot conclude that the system is defective, as there is another 
explanation for why it has not yielded the financial returns P estimated (i.e. performance 
measured in pounds sterling). It could just be because actual energy prices have been lower 
than Ps modelling predicted, and so the savings achieved through the energy generated by 
the system have been correspondingly lower, without indicating a problem with the panels 
themselves. I will explain this further.
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr B hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr B could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr B entered into the contract.
Inverter
The CMC says that Ps failure to mention that the inverter would eventually have to be 
replaced, at a cost of £1,000, at some point during the lifetime of the solar panels system 
(thought to be 25 years), amounts to a misrepresentation of the true cost of the system as a 
whole.
I think it is plausible that the salesman didnt mention that during the meeting, and so on 
balance I accept that he didnt. However, I have not been shown evidence that the inverter 
definitely will need replacing either. The only evidence I have seen which is relevant to this 
topic is the ten year warranty on the inverter and this sentence in the quote (in the section 
headed Inverter):
The Inverter is the one part of PV system (sic) that has a higher chance of failure 
and may require your attention within the 25 years.
Mr B might never incur the additional cost of replacing the inverter. But even if he had known 
about the risk of needing to do that, I am not satisfied that omitting to mention maintenance 
and repair costs amounts to the same thing as misrepresenting the purchase price.
I also think it is likely that Mr B would still have bought the system anyway, since I am not 
persuaded that this potential additional cost would have made a difference to his decision to 
buy it for £12,495. So I dont think this amounts to a misrepresentation.
Damage to the roof
Mr B says that the roof of his house was damaged during the installation, but no evidence of 
this has been provided. In its final response letter, Shawbrook offered to inspect the 
premises to see if P had caused any damage, but I have been provided with no evidence of 
this offer being accepted or of any inspection being carried out. I think that Shawbrooks offer 
was a reasonable response to Mr Bs claim, since it cannot be expected to pay compensation without verifying that the roof was indeed damaged by P. So I do not uphold 
the complaint about this issue.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr B to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mr B to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £100 compensation for its 
delay in responding to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman