DRN-2900003
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy that on 20 April 2020 he was unable to trade a Contract for Difference 
(CFD) he had open on Trading 212 UK Limiteds platform for a number of hours. As a result, 
his position was rolled over before he could close it and he incurred a loss of around £8,100. 
What happened
On 20 April 2020 Mr V held a long position in WTI 21 April 2020 Oil futures contract. A 
combination of factors, including the timing of the expiry of the April contract, the sudden 
drop in demand and the prospect of oil storage facilities being almost full led to a sharp drop 
in its price at around 3pm. At around 5pm, the price hit $1, causing volatility and illiquidity in 
the market. Trading 212 therefore decided to suspend trading in the April contract, and rolled 
clients over automatically to the May 2020 contract. 
Mr V said he had enough funds in his account to continue to trade after 5pm but Trading 212 
did not allow him to do so. He said he tried to contact Trading 212 at the time but was unable 
to find its phone number and nobody replied to his emails. He said that Bloomberg had been 
reporting price changes in this contract until 10pm, but he was unable to trade or amend his 
position. As a result, Mr V said he was caused a significant loss. He said other brokers did 
not behave in the same way and continued to provide quotes to their customers despite the 
widespread volatility. Mr V quantified his losses at around £8,100. 
Trading 212 issued a final response, and explained that it didnt think it had done anything 
wrong. In summary, it said:
An extreme market event had affected the prices of the April contract, and caused 
illiquidity which meant it could no longer quote a price for that contract. 
As a result, it took the decision to roll clients over to the following months contract  
and it explained how it carried out the calculations when doing so. 
It said that the terms allowed it to take the actions that it did given the situation. 
It said that despite Mr Vs attempts at mitigating his loss, the market continued to 
move against him and this is why he suffered a loss. 
It said that if his position had not been rolled over, his losses wouldve been around 
£500 higher. 
Mr V remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into his complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. In short, he said:
In April 2020 a historic event caused widespread volatility and negative pricing in 
futures contracts. It was virtually unprecedented and the lack of liquidity caused 
Trading 212 to be unable to accurately price the April 2020 contract on its platform. 
The terms of the agreement Mr V had with Trading 212 allowed it to take the actions 
that it did  and the investigator was satisfied that given the wider market situation, 
their actions were justified. 
Mr V didnt agree with the investigator. He said he didnt feel he had been treated fairly given 
the amount of time he was unable to trade this particular instrument. He said he felt Trading 
212 had put itself before its clients and said that clients ought to have been told in advance 
that taking a position in financial instruments can often be a one way trade. Mr V said that in 
his view, Trading 212 should not have offered this instrument if it could not cover their 
positions on it. He said that traders anticipated moments like this and said that suspending 
trading on this market at the time wasnt fair. He said that he was looking to take advantage 
of the low price but he was locked out of the market  he asked whether any broker is able 
to suspend a position if it goes against themselves? He said some brokers had honoured 
the trades on the day. He felt that Trading 212 had put itself first, as it had suspended 
trading precisely at a time when the client is going to make a profit and capitalise on a huge 
market event. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I should start by saying that I agree that the terms did, in principle, allow Trading 212 to take 
the actions that it did. Im satisfied that clause 6.4 of the terms allowed Trading 212 not to 
accept orders in the event of a force majeure  and Im satisfied that what happened in April 
2020 reasonably amounted to that, as defined in clause 25. Clause 6.10 also gave Trading 
212 the discretion to suspend this particular instrument from trading.
However, as the investigator has explained, whilst the terms allowed Trading 212 to take 
certain actions, I need to be satisfied that it did so in a fair and reasonable way. 
The first key issue that I must acknowledge is the unprecedented nature of the events 
surrounding WTI Oil on the day. The Commodity Future Trading Commission produced a 
report that outlined some of the factors that made this situation so difficult:
An already oversupplied global crude oil market at the beginning of 2020; 
An unprecedented reduction in demand caused by the pandemic; and
Concerns about the availability of global crude oil storage. 
The report also outlined the limited liquidity in the May futures contract (the April 2020 
contract on Trading 212s platform) at the start of the April 20 trading session, and which 
was coupled with a sharp drop in price later in the day. 
The key issue for me in this complaint is that the evidence Ive seen shows persuasively that 
there was very little trading going on in the underlying market. The evidence, which was also 
sent to Mr V in Trading 212s final response, shows just how little trading there was in the April 2020 contract compared to the following months  and this is corroborated by the 
media coverage of the events of that day.
In these circumstances, Im persuaded that Trading 212 had limited options available to it. 
The low level of trading in the underlying market meant that continuing to offer this 
instrument on its platform was unrealistic  for example its very unlikely that Mr V would 
have been able to sell his contract before expiry had he been trading the contract directly 
with the exchange. Given these circumstances, in my view a reasonable option was to 
suspend trading in that particular instrument on its platform. 
And given how close to expiry the contract was, Im satisfied that it was in the overall 
interests of its clients to automatically rollover those positions that were still open. As Trading 
212 has pointed out, had it not done this in Mr Vs case, his losses wouldve been £500 
higher than they were. Rolling over clients to the May 2020 contract was a reasonable way 
to allow clients the possibility of being able to mitigate any unrealised losses, even if it would 
likely have involved individual accounts needing more margin. The point here is that whilst 
Mr V has viewed this as an arbitrary decision made by Trading 212, I dont agree that it was. 
In fact Im satisfied that in this case, Trading 212 simply took steps to ensure that it reflected 
on its platform, and the service it offered its clients, what was already happening in the 
underlying market. 
Im also not persuaded by Mr Vs submissions that he was ready to capitalise on the 
situation. Its clear to me that this wasnt something he had anticipated (or else he wouldnt 
have had a long position in the WTI April 2020 contract), and by the time the price of WTI 
went negative, it was too late for him to take advantage of it.. 
Mr V has said that in his view Trading 212 took this decision to prioritise its own interests 
over its clients, but Ive seen insufficient evidence that this is what it did. In Mr Vs case in 
particular, Im not persuaded Trading 212s decision negatively affected him  it isnt in 
dispute that he had already accrued significant unrealised losses and in fact, as Ive said 
above, I consider it likely that but for Trading 212s actions, he probably wouldve suffered 
even greater losses. These unrealised losses werent caused by Trading 212s actions  
they were caused by the price dropping sharply, while he had an open a long position on the 
WTI April 20 contract. 
I acknowledge that Mr V has said that other providers honoured trades on the day  and 
whilst Ive taken that into account, Im not persuaded that indicates that Trading 212 was not 
acting in line with industry good practice. In my view, as Ive said above, its decision to 
suspend this particular market on that day was reasonable in light of the extremely low 
liquidity and, as a result, its inability to accurately price the instrument on its platform or 
execute client orders. 
Finally, Ive considered Mr Vs complaint that Trading 212 should not have offered this 
instrument to trade  but I dont agree there are any grounds to conclude this. As Ive said 
above, Im satisfied the actions it took were fair, reasonable and proportionate to what was 
happening in the underlying market. And Trading 212 could not have foreseen this particular 
market event, and I dont agree that other than the actions that it took, there was anything 
else it couldve reasonably done to have mitigated the situation for its clients. 
For all these reasons, I dont agree that Mr Vs complaint should be upheld nor that he 
should receive a refund of his losses. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman