DRN-2213778
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the payment protection insurance (PPI) taken alongside the 
credit card that was sold to him by Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard 
(Barclays).
What happened
Mr M took PPI in 2004 at the same time as he opened his credit card account with Barclays. 
He complained to Barclays in 2019.
In 2020 Barclays wrote to Mr M and agreed that the PPI policy had been mis-sold and it 
made an offer of £735.90. It sent the cheque to Mr M, but he chose not to encash it at the 
time and had some further questions he wanted answering  such as; why was he sold PPI 
when he couldnt benefit from it, why did the policy stop in 2006 and why was his account 
closed? He wanted more information from Barclays internal records. Mr M said Barclays had 
increased the financial hardship he had faced, and he had suffered from anxiety and 
depression. He wanted Barclays to compensate him accordingly. 
One of our adjudicators considered Mr Ms complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. 
They concluded this because when we received Barclays file, they made clear that the 
original offer made to Mr M was higher than it should have been  so he was better off. So, 
he wouldnt be asking Barclays to do anything further.
The adjudicator addressed Mr Ms questions. He didnt look at how the policy had been sold 
to Mr M as this would have no impact on the redress calculations. He advised Mr M he 
should contact Barclays direct if he wanted information from its internal records. The 
adjudicator was satisfied with the account opening and closing dates used by Barclays. Mr M 
had said he had suffered from depression and anxiety because of the mis-sale but the 
adjudicator didnt think Mr M should receive anything further. He had already been offered 
more than he was due.
Mr M didnt agree and wanted an ombudsman to look at his complaint, so it has been 
passed to me for decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the adjudicator, I will not be considering the mis-sale of the PPI. Barclays has accepted 
that the policy was mis-sold and has offered compensation  which I will look at to see if it is 
fair. 
As already advised, if Mr M wants more information about Barclays internal systems and the 
information it holds about him, he should contact Barclays direct. 
When we find that a PPI policy has been mis-sold, we expect the business to put the 
consumer in the financial position they would have been in as if they hadnt taken the policy 
 as far as is possible. This means a repayment off all of the premiums paid and any 
additional interest or costs, plus statutory interest at a rate of 8% for the time the consumer 
has been out of pocket.
As Ive explained above, Barclays made an offer of £735.90 to put the matter right. But when 
we received Barclays file in order to consider Mr Ms complaint, it explained that the original 
offer was incorrect. It had based its calculations on a comparable policy for a similar time 
period rather than actual data. 
Barclays did have the actual data for Mr Ms credit card usage. And its been able to give us 
a copy of that and I dont see any reason not to conclude that is a fair reflection of how Mr M 
used his credit card and the amount of PPI he paid. Im also satisfied with the start and end 
dates used by Barclays  November 2004 to August 2006  and the redress calculation it 
has made. The updated and correct redress calculations show that Barclays original offer of 
£735.90 was £389.73 higher than it should have been. The correct offer should have been 
£346.17. 
So, Mr M  if he chooses to accept the offer which Barclays is willing to stand by  would be 
better off by £389.73 and which is more than I would award if I had upheld the mis-sale 
complaint itself.
Mr M has asked for additional compensation for the anxiety and depression his financial 
hardship has caused him. I havent seen any evidence of Mr Ms financial hardship but, in 
any event, I think the over payment offered more than compensates for this, so I dont think 
anything more is due to Mr M. 
In conclusion, I think Barclays has been able to show us the correct calculations based on 
the actual usage of Mr Ms credit card. And it has already offered more compensation than 
Mr M was due. So, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
Because of what I have said above, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint and wont be 
asking Barclays to do anything more. It is for Mr M to decide whether to accept Barclays 
offer. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman