DRN-3114590
The complaint
Mrs M complains that American International Group UK Limited trading as AIG UK (AIG) 
unfairly declined her claim for her lost phone.
What happened
Mrs M has mobile phone insurance through her bank account. The mobile phone insurance 
covers loss, theft, damage or breakdown. 
Mrs M bought a second phone in March 2021, which she said she received on 15 April 2021. 
The plan for the new phone started on 27 March 2021. At that time, Mrs M was very ill. So 
she didnt immediately open and set up the new phone.
Mrs M said that she tried to use the SIM card that came with the new phone, but it didnt 
work. She was able to get it to work in a different handset. But she said that as she was very 
unwell, she didnt try putting the SIM card back into the new phone. Instead, she put the new 
phone in her bag. 
When she began to feel better, Mrs M wanted to set up her new phone, but she couldnt find 
it. She thought it was possible shed left the phone at the mall when she went there on 27 
April 2021. She called the contract provider to block the new phone and reported the loss to 
the police. Mrs M received a text from the phone provider on 28 April 2021 noting that it had 
been blacklisted.
Mrs M reported the loss to AIG so she could make a claim on her insurance policy. But AIG 
rejected the claim. They said that the policy covered any phones used on a daily basis. But 
as shed never used the new phone shed lost, they wouldnt cover the claim.
Mrs M complained to AIG. She didnt think theyd considered her poor health at the time of 
the loss. AIG said as shed not used the new phone since she bought it her claim had been 
declined. They said that theyd considered her ill health. But didnt uphold the complaint.
So Mrs M brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt that AIG had fairly and reasonably 
applied the terms of the policy to decline Mrs Ms claim. 
Mrs M didnt agree. So her complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing to Mrs M. Im 
very sorry to hear how ill shes been. Ill explain why I cant uphold her complaint.
When looking at whether a claim has been declined fairly, I first need to look at the terms 
and conditions of the policy. Under What is covered? in the policy booklet, it states:
This cover is for the phone you use on a daily basis only. It does not apply to phones used 
on a daily basis by anyone else, including your partner or your children even if you pay the 
bill. If your account is in joint names, cover is also provided for the phone the other account 
holder uses on a daily basis. No other phones are covered. There is no cover for phones 
that are owned by your employer.
I expect AIG to consider any claim in a fair and reasonable way. That includes reasonably 
investigating a claim and considering the evidence available before making its decision. Ive 
listened to the calls that Mrs M had with AIG. Mrs M told AIG that she wasnt using the SIM 
card provided in her new phone as she was going to get an international SIM card. Based on 
what was said on those calls, I think it was reasonable for AIG to decide that Mrs M wasnt 
using her new phone on a daily basis.  
The policy terms clearly state that the insurance only covers any phones Mrs M used on a 
daily basis. I consider that the terms are clear. I acknowledge that Mrs M said she didnt read 
the terms. But I cant hold AIG responsible for that. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied 
that AIG declined the claim fairly and reasonably and in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.
Im so sorry that Mrs M has been so ill. Having looked at all the evidence, I understand her 
position. Im very sorry that shes no longer got the use of a phone she still has to pay for. 
But I cant hold AIG responsible for the loss. And it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to 
ask them to cover the loss, as the policy clearly doesnt cover a phone that hasnt been used 
on a daily basis.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman