DRN-3588639
The complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) unfairly turned down his claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA). 
What happened
Mr H bought several timeshare memberships from the same timeshare supplier between 
August 2009 and May 2013. Mr H has not complained about all these purchases and instead 
is solely complaining about a purchase in February 2012. As such I shall not provide 
comment on Mr Hs other transactions with the supplier. 
On 5 February 2012, Mr H traded in his existing memberships with the supplier and 
purchased 2,580 Fractional Points and joined the suppliers Fractional Property Owners 
Club. Mr H took a loan with BPF for £6,131 to cover the difference between the purchase 
price of the Fractional Points and the trade in value applied to his existing membership. The 
loan was set to run for ten years. Mr H repaid this loan in full in May 2013 when he took out 
a further loan with BPF. 
In September 2019, Mr H (using a professional representative) made a claim against BPF 
for problems he said he had with the timeshare, claiming a refund of all payments made 
towards the loan, associated management fees, interest, legal fees and compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. He said the nature of the timeshare had been 
misrepresented to him, so he was able to make a claim against BPF under s.75 of the CCA. 
Mr Hs representative also set out a claim under s.140A of the CCA, specifying the actions of 
the supplier made the lending relationship between BPF and Mr H unfair. In addition, it said 
the lending was irresponsible as BPF did not properly assess Mr Hs creditworthiness. 
BPF did not respond to Mr Hs claim. Unhappy with BPFs lack of response within a 
reasonable time period, Mr H brought a complaint to our service that BPF had failed to 
investigate his claims. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and issued an opinion plus a follow up 
endorsement setting out why, not withstanding BPFs lack of response, she wasnt going to 
recommend it uphold Mr Hs claim. In summary, she thought the provisions in the Limitation 
Act 1980 (LA) mean Mr H made his claims to BPF under s.75 and 140A of the CCA too 
late. So, she didnt think BPF needed to uphold his claim or pay compensation. She did not 
agree with Mr Hs representative that exceptions to the limitation periods applied, and that 
time should start to run later. 
Mr Hs representative disagreed with the conclusions reached by the investigator and asked 
that the case be put to an ombudsman for decision. BPF confirmed it had nothing to add in 
response to the investigators assessment. 
As the complaint could not be resolved informally, it has now been passed to me for 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules that govern how I assess complaints, I must take account of law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice when I make my decision. 
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. 
So, although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every 
point that has been raised. 
Mr H has made several claims, I will deal with each in turn. 
The misrepresentation claim under s.75 of the CCA
Mr H said the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature of the membership to him and 
that he has a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier. Under s.75 of the CCA, BPF 
could be jointly liable for the alleged misrepresentations made by the timeshare supplier. 
Our investigator thought that any claim brought by Mr H for any alleged misrepresentations 
was made too late under the provisions of the LA. Having considered the evidence and facts 
of this case, I agree with what our investigator has said. For the avoidance of doubt, I have 
not decided whether the limitation period has expired as that would be a matter for the 
courts. Rather, I have considered whether it would have been fair for BPF to uphold Mr Hs 
claim.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967 (MA). A claim under s.2(1) of the MA is an action founded on 
tort for the purposes of the LA; therefore, the limitation period expires six years from the date 
on which the cause of action accrued (s.2 LA).
Here, Mr H brought a like claim against BPF under s.75 of the CCA. The limitation period for 
the corresponding like claim would be the same as the underlying misrepresentation claim. 
Therefore, the limitation period for the s.75 claim expires six years from the date on which 
the cause of action accrued. 
The date on which the cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr H entered into the 
agreement to buy the timeshare. It was at that time that he entered into an agreement 
based, he says, on the misrepresentations of the timeshare supplier and suffered a loss. He 
says, had the misrepresentations not been made, he would not have bought the timeshare 
or entered into the loan agreement with BPF.  It follows, therefore, that the cause of action 
accrued in February 2012, so Mr H had six years from that date to bring a corresponding 
claim. But he did not make a claim against BPF until September 2019, which was outside 
the time limits set out in the LA. So, I do not intend to ask BPF to do anything further to 
resolve this element of the complaint.
The claim under s.140A of the CCA 
Under this section a court may make an order under s.140B of the CCA in connection with a 
credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising 
out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination, but 
this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.The LA applies to a claim under s.140A of the CCA too. It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] 
EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A of the CCA, the time for limitation purposes 
ran from the date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the 
claim was made. As with an action under s.75 of the CCA, the limitation period is six years. 
That is because the claim Mr H wishes to make is for a repayment of sums he has paid to 
the loan, which is an action for sums recoverable under statue to which s.9 applies. 
That means Mr H would have had to bring an action within six years of the loan ending in 
May 2013. As he did not do that, I think he brought his claim too late. 
Could limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extension of the time limits in certain circumstances. I have considered 
the facts of this complaint and I do not think the time limits I have set out above can be 
extended under any of the provisions of the LA. 
Mr Hs representative disagrees and considers s.32 of the LA applies. This states that in 
cases of fraud, concealment or mistake, the limitation period only starts to run from when a 
claimant discovers the fraud, concealment or mistake (or could have discovered it using 
reasonable diligence). 
For there to be a cause of action for a fraudulent misrepresentation, and therefore one which 
BPF could be jointly liable for under s.75 of the CCA, there would need to be a number of 
things found. There would need to be a false representation by the fraudster, that 
representation would need to have been made knowing it was false (or being reckless as 
whether it was false), the fraudster would need to intend the claimant acts in reliance on the 
representation and as a result of that, they suffered a loss. Here, I cannot see any evidence 
that any of those four elements were satisfied.
Mr Hs representatives have also referred to the supplier having deliberately concealed 
information from him and that he entered the agreement under the mistaken belief that it was 
something it is not. If I were to find that facts relevant to Mr Hs causes of action were 
deliberately concealed from him, the limitation period may be extended. However, I do not 
consider the concealment alleged by Mr Hs representative conceals facts which can be 
viewed as essential elements of those rights of action advanced by him. In any event, I do 
not consider there is sufficient evidence to support the assertion that those facts were indeed 
concealed. 
Taking everything into account, I do not find that s.32 of the LA extends the limitation period 
in this case. 
Mr Hs representative has also referred to the time limits set out in the DISP rules which 
apply to FCA governed complaint handling. But the rules it is referring to set out the time 
limits within which a consumer needs to complain to a business about a regulated financial 
activity. Which in the current context, is a complaint that BPF did not respond to or 
investigate Mr Hs claim under the CCA. They do not operate to extend the amount of time 
Mr H had to bring his claim in terms of the LA. 
Unaffordable lending
Mr H says it was irresponsible of BPF to lend to him and that proper credit checks were not 
carried out. But Mr H has not elaborated on this aspect of his complaint. And even if I were 
to find that BPF failed to do everything it should have done when it agreed to lend to Mr H 
(and I make no such finding), Id still have to satisfy myself that the lending was unaffordable 
for him before also concluding that he lost out as a result. And as I havent seen anything to persuade me that was the case, I do not uphold this element of the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2022.
 
Lucy Wilson
Ombudsman