DRN-2800809
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F have complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) unfairly turned down their business interruption insurance claim after they 
were impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs F hold a business interruption insurance policy with NFU. They claimed on 
their policy after their business was impacted by the Governments actions in response to 
Covid-19.   
 
NFU said the policy didnt cover Mr and Mrs Fs claim because the policy primarily covered 
business interruption caused by damage and Covid-19 hadnt caused damage as defined in 
the policy. It said the extension for public emergency specifically excluded cover for 
infectious or contagious diseases. And while Mr and Mrs Fs policy didnt include the human 
diseases extension, that wouldnt have provided cover either as Covid-19 wasnt included in 
the specified list of diseases that were covered. 
  
Mr and Mrs F complained to NFU as they believed they should be covered for the 
interruption to their business.  
  
As they remained unhappy with NFUs response, Mr and Mrs F brought their complaint to 
us. They felt that the Supreme Court judgment on the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
test case supported their view that their claim should be paid.  
  
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Fs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
thought NFU had fairly applied the exclusion relating to closure by a public authority due 
to the occurrence of an infectious disease, and he didnt think the policy would have provided 
cover for Covid-19 as a human disease even if Mr and Mrs Fs policy had that extension. He 
also didnt think Covid-19 had caused damage to property. For these reasons, he said Mr 
and Mrs Fs business interruption insurance claim wasnt covered.  
  
Mr and Mrs F didnt accept our investigators view. They said theyd bought business 
interruption insurance to cover their business and thought the public emergency term would 
cover them if they werent able to access an event to trade. They also said their business 
had been impacted and as impact was listed as being covered, the policy should be 
interpreted to cover this. Mr and Mrs F asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Mr and Mrs Fs business, but I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill explain 
why.     
    
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if NFU has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Mr and Mrs Fs claim.    
  
Damage 
 
The policy says that NFU will pay for the loss of gross profit arising from: 
 
DAMAGE to PROPERTY used by YOU at the PREMISES arising from 
an INSURED PERIL 
 
The capitalised words have a specific definition within the policy.  
 
Damage is defined as Accidental physical loss, destruction or damage and property is 
defined as Material property. 
 
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to material property used 
at Mr and Mrs Fs premises, so I dont think this provides cover for their claim. 
 
Impact 
 
I can see that the schedule lists impact as an insured peril, but the policy specifies that this 
is impact by a vehicle or animal. So, while I appreciate Covid-19 has had a significant impact 
on Mr and Mrs Fs business, I dont think this applies. Also, for a business interruption claim 
to be payable, this would require the impact to have caused material damage to property. As 
Im not aware of any impact caused by a vehicle or animal that damaged material property, I 
dont think this covers Mr and Mrs Fs claim. 
 
Extension for public emergency  
  
This extension provides cover for loss of gross profit arising from:  
  
the actions or advice of a competent Public Authority due to an 
emergency likely to endanger life or property occurring in the vicinity of the 
PREMISES, which prevents or hinders the use of or access to the 
PREMISES 
 
However, the extension has an exclusion which says:  
  
WE will not pay for any loss resulting from infectious or contagious disease or the 
suspected or actual presence of an incendiary or explosive device. 
  
The World Health Organisations website describes Covid-19 as an infectious disease. So, I 
think the exclusion applies and as such this extension doesnt cover Mr and Mrs Fs claim. 
 
Mr and Mrs F have referred to the Supreme Court judgment on the FCAs test case, as they 
feel the judgment indicates that their claim should be paid. However, I think the High Court 
judgment is more relevant to this complaint. Thats because although the extension in Mr 
and Mrs Fs policy wasnt considered in the test case, the High Court considered a similar 
term within a different insurers policy and this part of the judgment wasnt appealed.  
  
Paragraph 376 of the judgment says:  
  The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and 
in the 21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent 
local authority, and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) 
of an infectious disease. Accordingly, the carve-out [exclusion] applies and 
there is no cover under either [of the two terms within that insurers 
policy] wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of the 
premises. 
   
I see no reason to depart from the findings made by the High Court and I dont believe 
anything decided in the judgments in the FCAs test case means that NFU need to pay Mr 
and Mrs Fs claim.  
  
Extension for human diseases  
  
The policy schedule shows that Mr and Mrs F didnt have this extension as part of their 
policy. However, for completeness, even if they did have this extension, I dont think it would 
cover the circumstances of their claim because Covid-19 isnt one of the diseases covered 
by the specified list included in the policy.  
  
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs F were hoping for but, for the reasons set out 
above, I dont think I can fairly require NFU to cover their claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman