DRN-4146429
The complaint
Mr W complains that after closing his savings account with Santander UK Plc, getting access 
to his money was a lot slower and complicated than Santander had suggested.
 
What happened
Mr W complained to Santander on 28 November 2022 that hed had to receive the balance 
of his account by cheque, which was not specified in its Key Facts Document (KFD). He said 
it took three calls to Santander and an hour of his time for the account closure process. 
Mr W said that in its letter of 13 December 2022, Santander agreed that the specific 
information pertaining to daily (withdrawal) limits on Faster Payments is not available in our 
KFD, and apologised that Mr W had been obliged to accept a cheque to cover the closing 
balance. Santander offered Mr W £50 compensation, which he considered to be inadequate.
Mr W called Santander on 23 December 2022 and said its agent felt that requiring him to 
make a 30-mile round trip to bank a cheque was worth at least £50 compensation. But 
nothing was offered for the delay and his calls. Mr W said the agent undertook to listen to his 
calls to Santander on 16 November, and to respond by email. Mr W called again on 3 and 4 
January 2023 when hed heard nothing and was told his complaint had been escalated. 
Santander wrote to Mr W on 6 January 2023 and said it had acted in accordance with the 
terms of his savings account. It apologised for Mr Ws time spent on the phone, but it was 
required to take security very seriously. It said its offer of £50 compensation is fair. 
Mr W said he didnt receive this letter and spoke to Santanders agent but said as she hadnt 
read his complaint letter a further hour of his time was wasted for which he should receive a 
further £100 compensation. Santander failed to contact Mr W in response, and he emailed 
on 9 and 30 January 2023. Mr W wasnt satisfied with Santanders response to his complaint 
and referred it to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He didnt think Santander 
had treated Mr W unfairly as it acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
account, even though this wasnt included within the KFD. The investigator said that we 
cannot consider complaints about complaint handling as this is not a regulated activity by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Mr W disagreed with the investigator and said we had ignored defects in Santanders 
complaint handling process. He said theres nothing on our website to say that we cant 
consider how a business has handled a complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W complains about problems with access to his funds following the closure of his savings 
account and Santanders response to the problems it caused. In response to the 
investigators view Mr W said Santanders poor complaint handling is the main driver of his 
complaint to us. Ive looked carefully at the issues to see if they are ones we can consider. 
And Ive looked at the record of communications between the parties to see if Santander 
acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account and if it treated Mr W fairly. 
I note that Mr W opened an account in October 2022 for a short period. He said delays in 
withdrawing his funds from 16 to 18 November cost him £1.50 in tax and some 
inconvenience. Mr W called Santander four times on 16 November 2022, but said its stated 
withdrawal process didnt work. 
I can see Mr Ws frustration on experiencing a two-day delay in the withdrawal of his funds. 
He didnt suffer any loss of interest but did spend time on the phone and in writing to 
Santander. Mr W expected Santander to make an electronic payment of the funds in the 
account, but this wouldnt necessarily have been completed the same day (16 November) as 
this isnt guaranteed, and payments can take up to two working days to arrive.  
I have looked at Santanders terms and conditions and its KFD. The terms are clear about 
the daily limits on withdrawal of funds, and these are intended to provide a measure of 
security on potential misappropriation of funds. The terms state (Page 18, point 17) 
Santanders rights to send monies to the last address held. This indicates payment will be by 
cheque. These terms arent set out within the KFD as this is a summary of the main points of 
the way in which the account will be handled. 
Mr W was inconvenienced by having to make calls on 16 November 2022 to try and obtain 
the withdrawal of his funds. This was frustrating and a waste of his time. But I think the 
apology from Santander and payment of £50 compensation is a fair and reasonable 
reflection of the inconvenience caused. If he hasnt already received this sum, I recommend 
Mr W contact Santander for payment. 
As well as the inconvenience to Mr W during the account closure, he said Santander 
subsequently made repeated commitments it didnt keep and treated him disrespectfully 
during his complaint. He said Santander have been given multiple opportunities to make 
amends since December 2022, but have chosen not to do so.
We dont generally consider complaints about a firms complaint handling as this is outside 
of the remit set for us by the FCA. Our website provides a link to these rules which state that 
we may only consider complaints about activities regulated by the FCA and this doesnt 
include complaint handling. 
We may make an exception for this when we consider that a firms handling of a complaint is 
ancillary to the events being complained of. This would generally mean interwoven and 
inseparable from the regulated issue complained of, in this case access to account funds. Mr 
Ws complaint about Santanders handling of his complaint concerns unkept commitments 
and being treated disrespectfully, which I consider to be separate to the difficulties he faced 
in his attempts to understand and navigate the withdrawal of his funds. His funds had been 
successfully withdrawn by the time of his complaint and for these reasons I dont think it is 
ancillary to his main complaint. 
Notwithstanding this it is worth bearing in mind that Santander did send its final response to 
Mr Ws complaint by letter of 6 January 2023, and so it did consider the issues post-
December 2022. It is unfortunate Mr W didnt receive this letter, but its shown in Santanders 
records. As we can see that it was sent we wouldnt hold Santander responsible for its non-
receipt. 
I realise Mr W will be disappointed by the outcome of his complaint, but I hope he 
understands the reasons I have reached it. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman