DRN-2082837
The complaint
Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr H took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1999. Mr H paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered him in case he was off work sick or 
lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Because of the time thats passed, there isnt still a recording of the call where the PPI was 
sold. But the paperwork involved only recommended that it was something Mr H thought 
about. Further, the PPIs cost was set out distinctly from the mortgage premium itself, and it 
was sold as a separate product  it wasnt part and parcel of the mortgage. Ive not seen any 
wider problems with Halifaxs sales process from the time  from what Ive seen, the PPI 
was normally set out as being optional, and in order to get it the customer had to actively 
choose it. And Ive not seen any evidence to show that this sale differed significantly from 
the normal process, nor that Mr H was misled or put under any unfair pressure to buy PPI. 
And it makes sense that the PPI was sold before his mortgage completed, as that meant he 
was covered from the start  it was quite normal to be done this way. Overall, I think its most 
likely that Halifax made Mr H aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if he can no longer recall doing so 
after so many years. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr H, so it had to check it was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mr H 
was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
While Mr H had benefits through work and some savings, the PPI wouldve paid out on top 
of those and covered him for far longer. I also understand his family wouldve been happy to 
help, but there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this 
mortgage was Mr Hs sole responsibility, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable if Halifax 
had recommended he rely on other individuals to pay it. Its also worth bearing in mind that 
the mortgage was a significant, long-term commitment  there was no guarantee that Mr H 
would have the same benefits available in the many years to come. And ultimately, if he fell 
behind on his repayments he couldve lost his home. So the PPI couldve really been useful 
for Mr H in protecting his home and providing some peace of mind. 
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mr H about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. Here, it looks like Mr H chose to take out PPI, which indicates he wanted this type of 
cover. As I explained above, Mr H wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt 
cover, and it couldve really been useful for him in case something went wrong. The policy 
was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid 
on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr H could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, 
I dont think that better information was likely to have put him off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman