DRN-3204241
The complaint
Mr R complains how Royal Sun Alliance Insurance Ltd (RSA) settled his claim for a 
blocked drain and underground pipe on his home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
In October 2020, Mr R called a drainage company as he had a blocked drain and his 
kitchen sink was overflowing.
The drainage company attempted to clear the drain but said the CCTV survey 
showed major defects and fractures from the sink to the manhole at the front of the 
property. It therefore said a gully needed to be fitted as there wasnt one for the 
kitchen waste. It also laid new diverted pipework and capped the old pipework.
Whilst the repairs were being carried out Mr R contacted RSA to make a claim on his 
home insurance policy.
RSA wanted to instruct their contractors to visit the property, but Mr R told it the 
repairs were already being carried out as he was due to go on holiday the following 
week. RSA said it would need to review a quote from the company doing the repairs 
to validate the costs. 
Upon review, RSA said adding a gully was betterment and initially declined the whole 
claim. However, later said this was incorrect and apologised. Although it still thought 
the gully shouldnt be covered it agreed to pay for the diversion of the pipework. 
However, it said it would only pay what it wouldve paid its own contractors to do the 
work.
Mr R is unhappy with the £875 offer as he paid over £5,000 for the repairs.
RSA said their claim handling could have been better and offered £150 
compensation, but it felt their settlement offer was fair.
Our investigator considered Mr Vs complaint but didnt uphold it. She said RSA had 
settled the claim in line with its terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr R didnt agree and requested the case be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms of Mr Rs policy, it states:
You must tell us as soon as you become aware of any incident or legal proceeding which
may lead to a claim
This is a common term across policies of this nature.
From what Ive seen Mr R contacted RSA after he had already arranged for his own 
drainage company to attend and it had fixed the issue. Mr R has told us he didnt realise that 
he had a possible insurance claim and was concerned about just getting the blocked drain 
cleared as he was due to go on holiday the following week. However, by Mr R doing this 
without RSAs input, it seems clear to me that he had acted against the policy terms and 
impacted RSAs ability to validate the claim by sending its own contractor to the property to 
review the cause and damage.
Ive not seen evidence that the repair was such an emergency that it needed immediate 
repair on the spot. And if Mr R had contacted RSA before the repairs began RSA has said it 
wouldve sent its own contractor out  which is what Id expect to see.
I understand that Mr Rs drainage company charged him to add a gully to the kitchen
drain. RSA have said this is not covered by the policy. I can see the gully was not in place
before the drain was blocked. I understand why Mr R agreed to have this added as his
contractor recommended it be put in place to assist with drainage. But the policy doesnt 
cover betterment and I therefore agree with RSA this wouldnt be covered by the policy.
RSA has said it will agree to pay the claim at the cost it would have paid had it been able to 
nominate its own contractor as per the policy terms and conditions that state:
How we settle claims for Buildings
We will pay for the cost of work carried out in repairing or replacing the damaged parts of
your buildings and agreed fees and related costs.
The amount we will pay where repairs are carried out will not exceed the lesser of:
 the cost of the work had it been completed by our nominated contractor,
 the cost of the work based upon the most competitive estimate or tender from your
nominated contractors.
Again, these are common terms across policies of this nature. And as RSA wasnt given the 
opportunity to resolve the matter itself, Im satisfied its application of these terms is 
reasonable. RSA forwarded the evidence Mr R provided to its own contractor and it has told 
RSA that it would have taken a day to complete at a rate of £875 for the same works i.e. 
diverting the pipework around the outside of the property but excluding the new gully. Ive 
been given no technical opinion or breakdown that disagrees with its costings, so Im 
satisfied this is fair.
RSA have also offered £150 compensation for the handling of the claim. RSA initially 
declined to deal with the damaged pipework but reviewed this again and apologised that this 
was incorrect. RSA confirmed the pipework was covered by the policy and their settlement
covers this. Im satisfied that the settlement and compensation offered for the error is fair in 
the circumstances and acknowledges the inconvenience the incorrect information would 
have had on Mr R.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Angela CaseyOmbudsman