DRN-3518429
The complaint
Mr S complains about information he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
concerning a rights issue. 
He has complained Barclays didnt sell his rights and so allowed them to lapse without value. 
He is also unhappy he received too many letters, too late, causing confusion.
What happened
Barclays sent Mr S a large number of letters with notice of the rights issue. Notice was also 
made available to him online.
The notice provided by Barclays said Mr Ss options were either to take no action and let the 
entitlements lapse or to take up the entitlements in which case he had to have enough in his 
account to cover the cost. 
What it said also included that the rights were renounceable, and gave dates for the trading 
period, and said selling some rights to fund the exercise of others was best done by phone.
Mr S says he expected to receive any premium attached to the rights when they lapsed, 
which he says is normal practice, including for Barclays, so he took no action but received 
no payment.  He says he did receive payment for an identical holding he held elsewhere.
Barclays says it couldnt sell Mr Ss rights without his permission and it wasnt its process to 
sell rights without instructions. In this case the default option was for the rights to lapse, 
which they did. Barclays says it didnt mislead Mr S and as an execution-only platform its 
service might not be similar to his other broker. It says it outlined the terms of the action, it 
was for Mr S to act on this and it was made clear that if he didnt act the rights would lapse. 
But Barclays has accepted it sent Mr S too many letters in error and has said it would pay 
£50 to his bank account for this inconvenience. Mr S says this hasnt been paid.
Our investigator thought Barclays had acted correctly. Mr S disagreed and referred to other 
rights issues handled by Barclays for which he says he did receive a premium when the 
rights lapsed without him taking any action. Our investigator explained that in the particular 
example of which Mr S gave detail, the fact there would be a premium paid for lapsed rights 
was apparent in the public announcement for the rights issue. In contrast, the public 
announcement for the rights issue Mr Ss complaint is about says shareholders taking no 
action would receive no compensation for expired rights. It said:
Subscription rights that are not exercised shall automatically lapse at the end of the 
subscription period and, therefore, shareholders who take no action will not receive 
compensation for any unused or expired subscription rights and will be diluted.
Mr S still didnt agree and thought crucial information was left out by Barclays not making 
clear the rights issue was different to the earlier example hed given. Barclays says Mr Ss 
examples are irrelevant as all rights issues or corporate events are different and the 
outcomes, including whether customers receive payment for lapsed rights, are determined 
by and vary with the company taking the action in each case.
I wrote to Mr S and Barclays about the complaint. I said, in brief:
The notice issued by the company about the corporate action included prominent 
warnings that those taking no action would receive no compensation for any unused or 
expired rights and that the lapsed rights would be of no value. The absence of 
compensation for lapsed rights was unusual and noteworthy enough to be highlighted on 
the companys notice. Usually the market value of lapsed rights is realised and paid.
Barclays arguably ought to have given Mr S clear information so he would know lapsed 
rights would lapse without value. Its notification didnt do this. It explained rights would 
lapse but not that they would lapse without value. 
If clearer information wouldve led to Mr S selling his rights, his loss could be calculated 
by reference to the £300 he got for an identical holding sold by another broker, less the 
phone dealing costs he wouldve incurred at Barclays. A payment for the trouble caused 
to Mr S might also be due.
Mr S responded to say, in brief summary, that any redress should deduct online rather than 
phone dealing charges as he traded online which is much cheaper than by phone. Also he 
said he hadnt yet been paid the £50 Barclays had originally said it would pay him. Barclays 
also responded. It said, in brief summary:
While the other broker sold the lapsed rights, as an execution-only broker this isnt 
something Barclays would do without a specific client instruction. It had never done this 
in the past and doing this isnt part of its service. 
The notice it sent was based on information it received and went through various levels 
of sign-off. The wording is clear and doesnt say it will sell the rights or take any other 
action with them other than for Mr S to exercise them. The letter sent to Mr S details 
exactly how he can sell his rights or how to contact Barclays to do so. In summary, it 
processed the corporate action in line with the details given by the issuer and hasnt 
misled Mr S in any way about what action Barclays would take.
Its platform is execution-only. Mr S is responsible for managing his portfolio and he 
shouldve conducted his own research. 
Rights that lapse are sometimes bought by an underwriter, which might result in a 
payment to the consumer, but this process wasnt applicable to this corporate action. 
The information about rights lapsing and there being no compensation for unused or 
expired rights, is in the body of the notice issued by the company - not in any headers. 
If Mr S were expecting a payment like he said, he mightve contacted Barclays to ask 
why there was no mention of this in its notification - but he didnt make any such contact. 
Mr S appears to have wrongly assumed Barclays would sell the rights without instruction, 
value or valueless - so if Barclays had told him that rights would lapse with nil value, it 
wouldnt have changed anything.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally it has been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S says Barclays ought to have sold his rights for him when he didnt exercise them. But 
Im not persuaded this was part of the service Barclays was offering. Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that Barclays promised or promises to do this. Given also that this would likely 
involve Barclays in extra costs, I dont think it was unfair for Barclays not to do this.
That said, on balance I conclude that Barclays obligation to treat Mr S fairly meant it ought 
to have mentioned to him that lapsed rights would lapse without value, bearing in mind that it 
knew any value of Mr Ss rights would be lost unless he took action and it wasnt going to 
take action itself to secure that value for him. 
I say this bearing in mind it is common ground that rights that arent exercised, or lapsed 
rights, will sometimes be sold (although not usually by the broker) with a payment being 
made to the investor if the rights have enough value. Barclays says this happens sometimes 
rather than usually, but on balance I dont think that makes very much difference here. 
Also I bear in mind that the fact that the lapsed rights would here lapse without value, without 
compensation for Mr S, was known by Barclays from the start from the notice given by the 
company. 
The fact the rights would lapse without value could, from what Ive seen, also have been 
inferred from the nature of the rights issue itself, given the territorial law governing it. But 
despite this being implicit, it was still explicitly mentioned in the company announcement. In 
my view this underlines that this fact was not only relevant for Mr S but also noteworthy for 
an investor like him and for the intended audience of that company announcement.
Also, putting aside the good reasons there were for passing on this information to Mr S, 
Barclays to my mind hasnt given any good reason why this point wasnt passed on.
I agree it was the body of the company announcement, rather than a heading, that explained 
the point. It was made with a few others in the details section, as Barclays says. Prominent 
references to it in headings, which Id seen, were in a separate shareholder guide on a 
website of the company, to which Barclays gave us a link with its file, which was produced 
for those with holdings held in a different way to Mr S.
But this doesnt change my conclusion. I dont think Barclays needed to give the same 
prominence to this point as that shareholder guide gave. But what Barclays gave Mr S didnt 
refer to the point at all and I think it ought to have done for the reasons Ive given.
I dont overlook that further and full details of the rights issue would have had to be obtained 
by Mr Ss own research, given the execution-only service that Barclays was offering. But 
having chosen to alert him to certain details of the rights issue, given Barclays duty to treat 
Mr S fairly I think Barclays ought to have mentioned that hed receive no compensation if he 
did nothing, given the relevance of this point to the decision Barclays was alerting him to and 
inviting him to make. I say this in light of all Ive said above.
If Mr S had been told he would receive no value for his rights if he did nothing, I think it likely 
he wouldve acted and sold his rights. I say this because Im persuaded his reason for not 
doing so was that he didnt realise he wouldnt receive value for them otherwise. I dont agree that his not asking for more information indicates that he wasnt expecting a payment. 
In my view his expectations are evidenced in what he said to Barclays about this. 
Also Mr S has since explained his experience and expectations, by referring to other rights 
issues he has been involved in. His expectations may have been based on a mistaken 
assumption that it was Barclays as broker that sold his unexercised rights, but I dont doubt 
that he expected he would receive a payment for his lapsed rights here.
In arriving at this view Id mention that a crucial point here is that Mr S raised his concern 
with Barclays at the point in time that he did and not at a later time. This is because to reach 
my view I have to be persuaded that Mr S was paying sufficient attention to the rights issue, 
and also had expectations of a particular kind (as described above), such that if different 
information had been given by Barclays in its notification this wouldve changed what Mr S 
did. This is the conclusion I reach here, and I do so bearing in mind Mr S himself raised the 
issue with Barclays in the timeframe that he did, rather than at some later time where the 
delay would have tended to undermine his assertion that he expected to receive a payment.
I note that Mr S has also mentioned receiving multiple and confusing letters. Barclays has 
said this was an error and said it would pay Mr S £50 for the inconvenience. There doesnt 
seem any dispute that Barclays service fell short causing Mr S inconvenience in that regard. 
I dont know whether the payment has been made or not, but I think a payment of the kind 
Barclays proposed, if not made already, would be fair for the inconvenience identified there.
In addition to this, and in light of my findings about, I think Barclays should also pay Mr S a 
sum to compensate him for the disappointment he suffered as a result of not receiving 
payment for his rights, caused by the information failing I have identified above.
Ive considered what Mr S is likely to have achieved if he had tried to sell his rights. Barclays 
notice told Mr S this was best done by phone if he wished to sell some of his rights in order 
to fund the exercise of remaining rights. Mr S didnt wish to fund the exercise of any rights, 
and the notice didnt specify a particular trading method to use if he wanted to sell his rights. 
It said (on the letters) that if he wanted to make a choice he could log in to his account  but 
the choice it referred to was either to take up the rights or to allow them to lapse. It didnt 
include as one of the two election options the option of selling all of his rights. As Ive said, it 
referred elsewhere to the sale of rights but only as a way to fund taking up some rights.
In view of all this I think the natural course for Mr S, wanting to sell his rights, was for him to 
call Barclays to sell them. I dont overlook what Mr S has said about not trading by phone in 
the past and the lower costs of online trading. But it is also the case that Mr S hadnt acted to 
sell rights in the past, as hed relied on any premium being realised for him automatically. 
With all this in mind, Im satisfied Mr S in this instance would most likely have sold his rights 
by phone and I think it fair and reasonable to proceed on that basis below.
As for what Mr S might have got from such a sale, he says an identical shareholding realised 
£300 as part of a bulk sale. Ive received nothing from either Mr S or Barclays to suggest that 
it wouldnt be fair to proceed on the basis that for an individual sale Mr S wouldve realised 
an equivalent sum for his shares but before allowing for his trading costs with Barclays. Mr S 
has told us the number of shares in the two shareholdings was identical - if that is so, the 
figure before trading costs is £300.
Putting things right
I find Barclays Bank UK PLC at fault to the extent and on the basis outlined above. So I think 
Barclays Bank UK PLC caused Mr S inconvenience and disappointment as well as financial 
loss and so Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right.To put things right, Barclays Bank UK PLC should: 
Pay Mr S £150 for the inconvenience and disappointment. It may deduct from this the 
£50 it offered Mr S earlier if it has already paid that £50 to him.
Pay Mr S the sum of (A) minus (B) - with (A) being the value his rights would have been 
sold for, which I find is £300 if his shareholding was the same size as his shareholding 
with his other broker but adjusted pro-rata if the size is different, and (B) being the cost of 
Barclays Bank UK PLCs phone dealing charge at the time.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right by doing what 
Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman