DRN-4499651
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with the service shes received from Tesco Personal Finance PLC,
trading as Tesco Bank, surrounding a balance transfer she instructed.
What happened
In July 2022, Miss S instructed a balance transfer from her newly opened Tesco credit
account to another credit account she held with a third-party provider (the receiving
account). But while Tesco confirmed to Miss S that the balance transfer had completed, the
money never arrived in the receiving account.
Miss S chased Tesco about this, but the matter wasnt resolved. And because the instructed
balance transfer was intended to clear the balance that was outstanding in the receiving
account, the non-receipt of that money eventually led the receiving credit provider to default
the receiving account because of the balance that remained unpaid in it. Miss S wasnt
happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Tesco responded to Miss S and explained that, upon investigation, they had identified that
the balance transfer had been sent to the receiving bank without the required reference
details. And this meant that while the money had been received by the receiving bank, it
appeared the receiving bank hadnt been able to identify the received money as belonging to
Miss S and so credit it to her account, because of Tescos error.
Tesco apologised to Miss S for not including the reference details and for not investigating
the transfer sooner, and they made a payment of £200 to Miss S as compensation for any
trouble and upset she may have incurred as a result. Miss S wasnt satisfied with Tescos
response and felt that Tesco had caused her credit account with the receiving bank to be
defaulted by that bank. So, she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that the £200 compensation
Tesco had paid to Miss S didnt fairly account for the worry and inconvenience shed
incurred and so recommended that Tesco pay a further £100 to her. And our investigator
also said that Tesco should contact the receiving bank and explain to them what had
happened so that they could potentially consider removing the default from Miss Ss
account. Neither Miss S nor Tesco agreed with the view of this complaint put forwards by our
investigator, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 November 2023, as follows:
Tesco have admitted that they made a mistake here by not including the payment reference
information with the balance transfer they sent to the receiving bank.
When a business admits that its made a mistake, as Tesco have here, this service would
generally expect that business to take the corrective action required to return the affected
customer  as much as reasonably possible  to the position they should be in had the error
never occurred.
Tesco feel that theyve done that here. They note that they arranged the recall of the
transferred money from the receiving bank so that its now present in Miss Ss Tesco
account which now allows her to instruct a new balance transfer if she wants to do so. And
Tesco have confirmed that they will honour the 0% interest promotional offer that was
available to Miss S when she first instructed the transfer.
But Miss S doesnt agree that Tescos actions have fairly put her into the position she should
have been in. Rather, she feels that Tescos actions directly caused her to incur a default on
the receiving account  because the money that should have been received into the account
upon the transfer instruction, wasnt in fact received.
I can appreciate Miss Ss position here  to a degree. But there are three relevant parties to
whats happened here: Tesco, the receiving bank, and Miss S herself. And having
considered all the information available to me, Im not convinced that Tesco should fairly be
deemed solely responsible for the defaulting of the receiving account. And this is because I
feel that Miss S should also bear some degree of responsibility for the fact the receiving
account was defaulted because of the outstanding balance that remained in it.
One reason I say this is because while Miss S instructed the balance transfer in late July
2022, she didnt contact Tesco about the non-receipt of the money into the receiving account
until late October 2022  three months after the transfer was instructed.
While I can appreciate that Miss S received a confirmation from Tesco that the balance
transfer had completed, it remained her responsibility as the account holder of both the
Tesco and the receiving accounts, to have monitored those accounts and to have been
aware of the ongoing status of them. And I also feel that it stands to reason that the
receiving bank would have been sending monthly statements to Miss S  as Tesco were
themselves doing  which should have indicated to Miss S at a relatively early stage that the
balance transfer hadnt completed as she believed it had.
Additionally, Tesco have explained that when Miss S did contact them in October 2022, they
asked her to provide the card number for the receiving account so that they could investigate
what had happened. And Tesco have also explained that Miss S didnt have information with
her at that time and was asked by Tesco to call back and provide it.
But Miss S didnt call back and provide the information that Tesco had reasonably requested
from her. And the next call that Tesco received from Miss S after the October 2022 call took
place in late January 2023  another three months later, and now six months after the
balance transfer had been instructed. And again, I feel that Miss S should reasonably have
been aware of the status of her receiving account, including that an outstanding balance
remained on it, during this period.
So, while I accept that Tesco did make a mistake here which led to the balance transfer not
being received into the receiving account, I feel that Miss S had a prolonged opportunity to
have recognised this and to have mitigated against the defaulting of her account by the
receiving bank. And because of this I dont feel that Tesco should fairly be considered
responsible for the defaulting of that account as Miss S suggests.
I also feel that the corrective actions and payment of compensation that Tesco have already
made here  as Ive described them above  already represent a fair and reasonableoutcome to the mistake that Tesco made. To reiterate, this is on the basis that while Tesco
did make the initial mistake, I feel that Miss S should fairly be considered responsible for the
eventual defaulting of her receiving account because she didnt recognise or mitigate against
the non-receipt of the balance transfer funds as would reasonably be expected.
All of which means that I dont feel that Tesco should fairly be instructed to take any further
or alternative action here, and it follows from this that my provisional decision is that I wont
be upholding this complaint.
Miss S responded to my provisional decision and explained that she felt that both Tesco and 
the receiving bank had handled the situation badly, but that the real problem was the 
receiving bank. And Miss S has provided examples of what the receiving bank did that she is 
unhappy about.
I can appreciate Miss Ss dissatisfaction here. But this complaint has been raised against 
Tesco, and not against the receiving bank. As such, my assessment here can only consider 
the actions of Tesco. And for the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision, I 
continue to feel that no further action should reasonably be required of Tesco here, such that 
I wont be upholding this complaint against them.
I realise this might not be the outcome Miss S was wanting, but I hope she will understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman