DRN-4076451
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society took a loan payment by direct debit after 
hed settled the loan and so had no money left to repay.
What happened
Mr H called Nationwide and asked for a settlement figure for his loan. Nationwide gave a 
settlement figure to Mr H, and he then asked whether there was anything else he would 
need to do, such as cancel the direct debit which was in place to make the monthly loan 
payments. Nationwide then told Mr H that they would cancel the direct debit for him once the 
settlement payment had cleared. 
Mr H then made the settlement payment to clear the loan. But Nationwide still took the next 
monthly direct debit payment, even though no money was owing on the loan. When Mr H 
contacted Nationwide about this, he was told it could take up to nine working days for them 
to reimburse his money to him. Mr H wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Nationwide responded to Mr H and explained that when hed asked them about the direct 
debit, theyd tried to explain to him that the next payment may already be in the process of 
being taken and that Mr H could deduct that amount from the settlement figure, but that Mr H 
had hung up the call while their agent was talking. As such, Nationwide didnt feel theyd 
acted unfairly or made an error. Mr H wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so he 
referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Nationwide had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
Ive listened to the call recording where Mr H obtains a settlement figure for the loan. After 
received the settlement figure, Mr H asks whether he needs to cancel the direct debit after 
settling the loan, and Nationwide confirm to Mr H that theyll do that for him. 
Mr H then ended the call as Nationwides agent begins explaining that because the next 
scheduled direct debit payment is upcoming, the process of applying for it may have already 
begun, meaning it may still be taken. And Nationwide have confirmed that their agent would 
also have explained that if the next direct debit was taken it would be automatically 
reimbursed to Mr H within two weeks, or that Mr H could deduct the upcoming direct debit 
amount from the settlement figure hed received from them if he preferred. 
Unfortunately, this meant that Mr H ended the call without receiving all the relevant 
information about the direct debit. But Nationwide were trying to provide that information to 
Mr H when he ended the call. So, while I acknowledge that its unfortunate that Mr H ended 
the call when he did, and so didnt receive all the information he required, I dont feel it 
constitutes an unfair act on the part of Nationwide.
Because Nationwide had begun process of applying for the direct debit before Mr H settled 
the loan, and before the balance of the loan was nil, that process wouldnt have been able to 
be stopped by Nationwide even had Mr H remained on the call and requested it. 
This means the direct debit would always have been taken, which in turn means that Mr Hs 
options were either to accept the later reimbursement of the direct debit or pay a reduced 
settlement amount. And while Mr H unfortunately ended the call with Nationwide before 
being told of these options, they are also outlined and explained on Nationwides website.
Mr H is also unhappy at the timeframe given by Nationwide to reimburse the taken amount 
from him, and he feels that Nationwide should have processed an indemnity claim to return 
the money to him sooner, as per his rights under the direct debit guarantee. 
But the direct debit guarantee entitles an individual to a full and immediate refund if an error 
has been made by the business taking the direct debit. And Nationwide didnt make any 
error here because the process of applying for the payment had begun before Mr H made 
the settlement payment and when a balance was owed on the loan  as explained above. 
Finally, I also note that while Nationwide explained to Mr H that it could take up to nine 
working days to reimburse the direct debit to him, they processed the reimbursement in four 
working days. The nine-working day timeframe Nationwide gave to Mr H doesnt seem 
unreasonable to me, given there was no error here, but happily Mr H didnt have to wait for 
the full length of time he might have under that timeframe to receive his reimbursement.  
It follows from all the above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Nationwide 
to take any further action here. This is because I dont feel that Nationwide have done 
anything wrong and because I feel that Mr H not receiving the full information about the 
direct debit was an unfortunate  but not an unfair  consequence of his ending the call with 
Nationwide when he did. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr H was wanting. But I hope hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman