DRN-3831207
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) handled the 
quotation process for a motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B was looking for a new motor insurance policy for his car in August 2022.
He contacted Admiral and obtained a quotation from it. A range of different options were 
discussed, including one for Mr Bs home insurance when it was taken out alongside a car 
policy, and another for insuring a second car at the same time.
Admiral made an error when quoting for the home insurance, when it told Mr B an incorrect 
price which was £8 too low. The price discrepancy was corrected by Admiral and the correct 
premium was included in the information it sent him. This quotation was discounted as it was 
intended to be combined with a car insurance policy.
The car insurance quote was for £531.79. This quotation was issued by Admiral on the basis 
that two cars would be insured on the policy, for which Admiral would provide a discount.
Over a period of about ten days, Mr B and Admiral discussed setting up the policy.
Mr B asked Admiral to call him back on the renewal day. Mr B said this was due at a certain 
time, 1430. Admiral said it wasnt booked for a particular time. Mr B called Admiral but it 
couldnt see the details of the original quotes because it thought Mr B used a different 
reference number for the quotation.
Admiral called Mr B back later the same day. He wanted to insure one car only. Admiral said 
it couldnt insure the particular car for £531.79 because it had included the discounts 
mentioned above. Mr B complained.
Admiral looked into the complaint and awarded him £50 for its error with the household 
insurance quotation. But Admiral didnt uphold the rest of Mr Bs complaint.  
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He says he had to buy a 
more expensive policy instead of the one provided by Admiral. He asks for £200 
compensation made up of £78 for the extra he says he paid for motor insurance, £70 for a 
higher price he says he paid for household insurance, and his inconvenience. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought Admiral had made 
a small error which it had corrected and awarded compensation. But he didnt agree that 
Admiral had acted unfairly with the remainder of Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B didnt agree with the view so his complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
I can see from the evidence I have that there were several quotations discussed between Mr 
B and Admiral. These were shared over a period of about ten days and its part of Mr Bs 
complaint that the process was too long. 
Having looked at Admirals records, I can see that it called Mr B a few times over this period 
and on each occasion Mr B asked for more time to think about the quotes hed been given. 
So, I dont think I can fairly say that Admiral was responsible for the delay.
Mr B makes specific reference to two quotations he was given; which were for about £531 
and £556. Hes provided screenshots of these. In both cases I can see that they have 
specific wording saying price includes a multicar discount and is only valid when you add a 
second car. I can see that when Mr B wanted to go ahead with the motor policy, he only 
wanted to insure one car. It seems to me that this would change the nature of Admirals 
quotation to him and make the ones Ive mentioned invalid. So, I dont think Admiral has 
acted unfairly.
Ive also looked at the mistake made by Admiral when it provided him with a quote for his 
household policy, which was incorrect by about £8. I can see Admiral realised this, and 
discussed the correct premium with Mr B. 
I can see Mr B has said Admiral refused to sell him the policy. Ive listened to the call when 
this was discussed and I think its clear that Admiral say to him that it couldnt set up the 
policy at the previously quoted price because Mr B wasnt taking out a motor policy 
alongside it. This is because the premium quoted was discounted to take into account two 
policies being bought by Mr B. As Mr B didnt take out the motor policy, Admiral werent able 
to sell him the household policy at that price. 
Mr B says he had to buy another policy for around £147.65, which is about £60 more 
expensive than Admirals quotation. But I can see that Admirals price was for buildings 
cover only, and Mr B has bought a buildings and contents policy which will typically have a 
higher price. 
Admiral has paid Mr B £50 for the mistake it made. I think Admirals response to its mistake 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and Im not going to ask it to pay more.
Ive thought carefully about the journey Mr B took to get his quotation from Admiral. I can see 
that Mr B says he thinks Admiral refused to insure him, but I havent seen evidence that it 
declined to do this. What Admiral has said is that it couldnt give him cover at the prices itd 
quoted before, because Mr B had changed the way he wanted to insure his house and his 
car. 
This change of information means Admiral would need to re-assess Mr Bs prices and I think 
its fair and reasonable of it to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman