DRN-2935836
The complaint
Mr G complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund a payment he made from his account.
What happened
Mr G holds an account with Revolut. In October 2019, Mr G used the account to purchase 
digital gift vouchers from an online merchant at a cost of €460. Ill refer to the merchant as 
S.
 
Some time later, in January 2020, Mr G raised a chargeback claim with Revolut to pursue a 
refund. In his submission, Mr G said S had changed its terms and conditions after purchase, 
devaluing the gift vouchers. So, he wanted a refund.
 
S defended the chargeback claim. It provided evidence that the gift vouchers had been 
supplied to Mr G and  of the three vouchers hed bought  hed downloaded two of them. S 
also said its terms and conditions hadnt changed. After reviewing the evidence S provided, 
Revolut decided it no longer had a valid chargeback claim for the transaction. Revolut 
confirmed its decision to Mr G and provided him with a copy of Ss evidence.
 
Mr G was unhappy with Revoluts decision, so he complained. He reiterated the merchant 
had changed the terms and conditions shortly after he made purchase, so the vouchers 
werent as described, and he should receive a refund.
 
Revolut sent its final response to Mr G on 23 January 2020. In it, Revolut reiterated that S 
had provided evidence of the gift vouchers being supplied  and that it couldnt take any 
further action.
 
Mr G remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to our service. An investigator here 
considered what had happened, but he didnt think Revolut had acted unreasonably. He 
said, in summary, that its not for this service to decide whether a chargeback claim should  
or shouldnt  be successful. Instead, the investigator explained that hed looked at Revoluts 
actions to determine if it had taken reasonable steps to help Mr G  and he thought it had. 
Mr G disagreed, and he asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said that, after S had 
changed its terms and conditions, hed asked it to close the account he held with it and 
refund the payment. But it hadnt done so, and it had added the gift vouchers to his account 
anyway. Mr G also provided the investigator with some further information about measures 
that had been taken against S by authorities overseas  where he resides. 
The investigator empathised with Mr Gs position, but he still didnt think Revolut needed to 
do anything more. Thats because the issues Mr G has with Ss practices isnt something this 
service can consider. And, in the investigators opinion, Revolut had followed the steps wed 
expect to see in a chargeback claim and reached a reasonable decision not to proceed.
   
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to start by summarising what chargeback is and how it works. Its a process 
for resolving disputes between card issuers (Revolut) and merchants (S). The chargeback 
scheme is a voluntary code which card issuers can sign up to. Its run by the card scheme  
that is, the business which runs the payment network  not Revolut. Here, the card scheme 
is Mastercard.
Chargeback claims are processed and decided based on the card schemes rules. 
Customers arent automatically entitled to a chargeback and Revolut dont have to attempt it 
just because a customer asks them to. But Id expect them to try if theres good reason to do 
so.
 
When considering a chargeback request, Revolut are bound by the rules of the card 
scheme. They arent obliged to submit a claim if they dont think the rules apply, or if they 
think the claim is unlikely to be successful. Each case depends on the individual 
circumstances. So, what I need to decide here is whether Revolut acted fairly and 
reasonably in relation to Mr Ms chargeback request.
Although theres no strict obligation on a bank to carry out a chargeback, generally its fair for 
one to be attempted if theres a reasonable prospect of success. In this case, Mr G provided 
a lot of information about how hed tried to resolve the dispute with the merchant. Hed also 
been successful in other chargeback claims against S. So, I think it was reasonable for 
Revolut to submit a claim.
 
The merchant, S, defended the claim. It provided Revolut with some evidence to show Mr G 
had received the goods hed paid for and, crucially, that two of the three gift vouchers had 
been downloaded. Further, S also said its terms and conditions remained the same as at the 
time of purchase.
 
Ive considered all of Mr Gs comments and I know he feels very strongly about this issue  
particularly with regard to Ss general practices. Hes taken the time to provide wider 
information about punitive actions taken by the relevant overseas authorities against S, and 
he feels this supports his case. But its important to remember this complaint is about 
Revolut as his account provider  its not about S, which isnt a financial service provider and 
therefore doesnt fall within my remit. So, to be clear, Im only considering whether Revolut 
acted reasonably in its attempt to try and help Mr G in his dispute with the merchant  not 
whether Mr G was mistreated by the merchant itself.
Its for this reason that I cannot comment on what should or shouldnt have happened with 
Mr Gs purchase. And nor is it my role to comment on whether S acted honestly in how it 
dealt with Mr G. Ultimately, Revolut made the decision not to take the claim any further given 
the evidence it received. And  bearing in mind the relevant scheme rules and the 
information provided as part of the claim  I think that decision was reasonable. 
Its clear this is a matter of principle for Mr G. I empathise with his situation and I know this 
isnt the answer he was hoping for. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I think Revolut 
took the necessary steps to help him with his chargeback claim and made a reasonable 
decision based on the evidence it received. So, I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman