DRN-3240211
The complaint
Mr B complains that TFS Loans Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr B was given a loan by TFS in May 2015. He borrowed £5,000 and agreed to repay the 
loan in 60 monthly instalments. Mr Bs loan was guaranteed by his mother who it appears 
made some of the repayments on his behalf. Mr Bs loan was fully repaid in June 2020. 
Mr Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the 
information TFS gathered before lending to Mr B should have led it to conclude that Mr B 
was facing serious problems managing his money. So he didnt think the loan should have 
been agreed and asked TFS to pay some compensation to Mr B.
TFS didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If 
Mr B accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Bs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time TFS gave this loan to Mr B required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TFS had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr B. In practice this 
meant that TFS had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr B undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr B.
TFS gathered some information from Mr B before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details 
of his income, that it verified using his last three payslips, and his normal expenditure. And it 
checked his credit file to assess how much he was repaying to other creditors and how he 
had managed credit in the past.
Mr B was entering into a significant commitment with TFS. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of five years. So I think it was right that TFS wanted to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about Mr Bs financial circumstances before 
it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described above were sufficient to 
achieve that aim  I think that TFSs checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case.  
Mr B told TFS that he was earning £1,200 each month. But when it looked at his payslips 
TFS saw that Mr Bs average earnings for the three previous months had been just £880. 
That was a reduction of more than a quarter. So I think that should have put TFS on notice 
that all might not be well with Mr Bs application. 
The results of the credit check showed that Mr B had faced some serious problems 
managing his finances in the past. The credit check showed at least six defaulted accounts 
that had not yet been settled, and a similar number of satisfied defaults. I accept that some 
of those defaults had been a number of years before, but three of the defaults had been 
registered in the past five months  with the most recent occurring just the month before. 
Experience often shows that consumers who have faced problems managing their money in 
the past, frequently face similar problems in the future.
And Mr Bs problems did appear to be continuing. He had four active accounts with 
outstanding credit balances. Three of those accounts were showing as being in arrears, the 
most serious of which was a credit card account that was three months overdue, with a 
balance of almost twice the agreed credit limit.
I have considered that Mr B told TFS he intended to use half of its loan to repay some of the 
outstanding balances  with the rest being used to repay a loan from Mr Bs father. But it 
appears to me that Mr B wasnt actually making regular repayments to most of those 
accounts he wanted to consolidate. So whilst he would clear some historic debt, the loan from TFS would increase his monthly expenditure at a time when his finances were already 
clearly under pressure.
I dont think it was reasonable for TFS to conclude, from the results of its checks, that Mr B 
would be able to repay any additional borrowing in a sustainable manner. So I dont think 
TFS should have agreed to give this loan to Mr B, and it needs to pay him some 
compensation.
Putting things right
I dont think TFS should have agreed to lend to Mr B in May 2015. So TFS should;
refund all the interest and charges that were paid on the loan 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
As I said earlier, some of the repayments on this loan were made by the guarantor, rather 
than Mr B himself. TFS might decide that it should refund to the guarantor the repayments 
she made, in full. If it does that it is reasonable that TFS should deduct that refund from the 
compensation due to Mr B that I have set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put things 
right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman