DRN-2776367
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received at a branch of Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading 
as Virgin Money).
What happened
In October 2020 Mr H visited his Virgin Money branch to make a banking transfer. Because 
of the COVID guidelines in place at the time, he was asked to put on a face mask. Mr H 
didnt want to do that, so staff continued to help him outside the branch. 
Following this, there was a misunderstanding about when the transaction would be 
completed. Mr H thought the transfer would happen that day, not realising hed been asked 
to complete a form to be sent in the post to another Virgin Money office  and which meant it 
would take a few days to complete.
Contacting Virgin Money to find out why there was delay, Mr H was incorrectly told it was 
because hed refused to provide ID. Virgin Money later explained it had got this wrong and 
offered £100 in compensation. Mr H accepted this, then later returned it  although Virgin 
Money has said the offer still stands if he changes his mind.
Mr H asked us to look at his complaint about the overall service he received. Our 
investigator reviewed things and felt that Virgin Money didnt need to do any more to put 
things right. Mr H disagreed and the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint, Ill explain why.
There are three issues Mr H has highlighted. Ill deal briefly with them below.
The request to wear a face mask
In October 2020, the wearing of masks was a matter of government guidance  including in 
bank branches. And this will have been well understood given the extent of the media 
coverage about the COVID pandemic.
It wasnt unreasonable for the branch staff to ask Mr H to follow this guidance and wear a 
mask, and further they found an alternative way to serve him anyway.
The delay in making the transfer
The misunderstanding about how Mr Hs transfer would be made meant he had an 
unexpected delay. I can see, though, that it did happen a few days later. 
Ive seen nothing that suggests this caused him any particular inconvenience  and I wont 
be asking Virgin Money to do anything further here.
Incorrect information about providing ID
Virgin Money incorrectly told Mr H hed refused to provide ID and that this was the reason for 
the delay to his transaction. Its already corrected this and apologised. And its offered £100 
compensation. This is a fair offer and I wont be asking Virgin Money to increase it. 
Mr H has returned this money, but Virgin Money has confirmed the offer stands. If Mr H now 
chooses to accept it then he should contact Virgin Money to make the arrangements.
My final decision
Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) has already made an offer to pay £100 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) should pay Mr H £100
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Andy Howell
Ombudsman