DRN-2846497
The complaint
Mrs D isnt happy that Barclays Bank Plc have recorded a care marker against her personal 
records with them without her permission.
What happened
Mrs D maintains a banking relationship with Barclays. She said that shes held accounts with 
them since the 1980s.
In October 2020, Mrs D called Barclays to arrange to transfer money to a third party. During 
the call, Barclays told Mrs D that there was a care marker recorded against her records. 
They wanted to check whether this marker was appropriate and, if not, correctly update their 
records.
Mrs D was extremely upset and shocked at discovering that Barclays had applied this 
marker to her records with them. So, she complained to them. 
Barclays wrote to Mrs D in November 2020. They apologised, but they didnt believe that 
theyd made an error here. They said theyd written to her in 2018 to tell her about the 
marker and asked her to confirm if it was still appropriate. But Mrs D hadnt replied. They 
offered to remove the marker, with her permission and they told her how to give this.
Mrs D wasnt happy with Barclays response and decided to refer matters to this service to 
consider further.
One of our investigators has looked into the circumstances of Mrs Ds complaint. During the 
investigations, Mrs D provided consent to us for Barclays to remove the care marker. 
Our investigator thought that Barclays hadnt done anything wrong. But Mrs D disagreed. 
She didnt think that Barclays shouldve applied the marker to her records without her 
permission. Finding out had caused her a great deal of upset.
So, Mrs D asked for her case to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is very clear that by discovering that Mrs D has found this whole experience very 
distressing. She doesnt believe that Barclays had the right to record this information about 
her. She claims she never agreed to the marker being in place and cant understand why 
Barclays would record this about her.
I think its appropriate to explain what a Barclays care marker is and when its used. 
Barclays website details their accessibility statement. It says, Our aim at Barclays is, and 
has always been, to provide accessible services for all our customers. They go on to 
explain the various services and provisions available to help different customer with different 
needs. This is what I would expect to see from a bank today. To ensure they match their 
services to their customers individual needs, they record markers, where appropriate. This 
helps to ensure that a customers needs are clear to their employees. All of this is done to 
make their customers dealings with them as easy as possible.
In Mrs Ds case a care marker was recorded against her record. This suggested that Mrs D 
had speech difficulties and to make sure that staff took this into consideration when and if 
Mrs D had any dealings with them. So, the marker was their purely to make Mrs Ds dealing 
with Barclays as simple and smooth as possible. From what I can establish, there is nothing 
to suggest this marker was used for any other purpose and it wasnt communicated to any 
person or organisation outside of Barclays. It doesnt appear to have a negative effect.
Changes introduced in 2018 under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) placed 
new responsibilities on businesses to ensure that information they hold is accurate and held 
with the consent of their customers. So, Barclays wrote to Mrs D in May 2018. They told her 
about the marker and asked if she was happy for them to hold this information on their 
records. They explained what Mrs D needed to do if she wanted the marker removed.
Mrs D says she didnt receive this letter. Barclays have provided a copy of the letter which is 
correctly addressed. I accept what Mrs D says, but I cant reasonably hold Barclays 
responsible if the letter failed to get to Mrs D. They wouldnt have had control over this. But 
Im satisfied they met their obligations under GDPR by writing to her in this way.
Ive listened to a recording of the telephone conversation that Mrs D had with Barclays in 
October 2020. The transfer of money was completed quickly and successfully. But I also 
note that Mrs D was extremely upset that Barclays had recorded, what she considered to be, 
inaccurate information about her. I completely understand Mrs Ds reaction to this discovery.
Ive also listened to a recording of a call made by Mrs D to Barclays in November 2020. This 
was when she made her complaint to them. Mrs D was, understandably, very upset. She felt 
Barclays had no right to record this information and considered it a very serious breach of 
their responsibilities. She believed it was a false accusation and damaged her reputation. 
In return, Barclays tried their best to explain about the care marker and offered to remove it. 
But Mrs D didnt specifically consent to this. She insisted on Barclays explaining why the 
marker was recorded and who had put it there.
During her investigation, our investigator obtained Mrs Ds authority for Barclays to remove 
the marker. I am pleased to see that Barclays have confirmed that this has now been done.
So, in considering my decision, I need to consider whether Barclays did anything wrong by 
recording the care marker against Mrs Ds record with them. I also need to consider whether 
this led to Mrs D being disadvantaged or treated unfairly - either in her dealings with 
Barclays, financially or otherwise.
Barclays have been unable to establish when the care marker was applied to Mrs Ds 
record. Theyre only obliged to retain records for a limited period of time and the document 
or event that prompted this marker may well have pre-dated this. Particularly given how long 
Mrs D has been a customer of Barclays. So, I cant reasonably say that Barclays have made 
a mistake here.
Barclays letter in May 2018 was prompted by GDPR changes introduced at that time. They 
were correct to write to Mrs D to explain the marker on her record. So, Im comfortable that 
they met their obligations here. Its unfortunate that Mrs D doesnt recall receiving this letter.
Barclays also raised this again with Mrs D when she called them in October 2020. Although I 
completely understand Mrs Ds reaction at the time, I also think that Barclays did the right 
thing to mention it to her. They hadnt received a response to their letter in May 2018. So, 
they were trying to check that their records were correct. I believe this was the right thing to 
do at the time.
On balance, I cant see that Barclays have done anything wrong here. I also cant find that 
Mrs D has suffered any loss or been treated differently as a result. While I realise and 
appreciate that Mrs D will be disappointed, I wont be upholding her complaint. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman