DRN-2491202
The complaint
Mr H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc closed his accounts without giving him a 
proper explanation. He complains too that he had to rearrange his direct debits which 
caused him inconvenience.
What happened
Mr H had several accounts with NatWest. On 31 August 2020, NatWest wrote to Mr H 
saying that it would be closing his accounts after 60 days and inviting him to make 
alternative banking arrangements. 
Mr H says hes been a loyal customer of the bank for many years and hes been treated very 
unfairly.  He says hes always maintained his account properly, so cant understand why the 
bank no longer want him as a customer. Hes explained that because of the banks actions 
he was put to a lot of trouble having to rearrange his direct debits and payments out of his 
account. He wants the bank to reopen his account, apologise and pay him compensation for 
the trouble and upset hes been caused.
  
NatWest said it hadnt done anything wrong when it decided to close Mr Hs accounts and 
did so in line with the account terms and relevant regulations.  
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint. She said NatWest hadnt treated 
Mr H unfairly when it closed his accounts. She said the bank had written to Mr H to let him 
know he needed to make alternative banking arrangements, including rearranging his direct 
debits. So, she didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. Mr H disagreed. He said he hasnt done 
anything that would cause the bank to close his accounts and suspects its because he 
made some payments to a bank outside the UK. And that the bank has relied on an 
automated system to close his accounts.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, 
and for similar reasons.
As the investigator explained, its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres 
a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed. Banks 
should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually that means 60 
days, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. 
Having looked at the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that NatWest was within 
its rights to close Mr Hs accounts and did so in line with the account terms and relevant 
regulations. The bank wrote to Mr H on 31 August 2020 and gave him 60 days notice which 
was adequate time to make alternative banking arrangements if he wanted to do so.  
I appreciate of course that NatWests actions caused Mr H real inconvenience. He had to go 
to the trouble of rearranging his direct debits which took time and caused him to incur call 
costs when he had to contact his suppliers. It wouldnt however, be appropriate to make an 
award of compensation for that, since I dont believe NatWest acted inappropriately in taking 
the actions that it did.
Mr H says he has been a customer of the bank for many years and wants to know the 
reasons why NatWest decided it no longer wanted him as a customer. I can appreciate Mr H 
is upset and that he was caused inconvenience when the bank closed his accounts. But 
NatWest isnt obliged to provide Mr H with an explanation  as much as hed like to know. 
So, I cant say NatWest has done anything wrong by not providing Mr H with this information. 
And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so.   
Im aware Mr H suspects that NatWest closed his accounts because of payments he made 
to an account outside the UK and is a result of the bank using automated systems instead of 
staff to make decisions about accounts, but Ive not seen any evidence that this was the 
case. 
In summary, I appreciate that it was inconvenient for Mr H when NatWest closed his 
accounts. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my decision. But I dont believe NatWest 
acted unreasonably or treated Mr H unfairly in taking the actions it did.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman