DRN-2718921
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund payments made using her 
debit card, that Miss R says she didnt authorise.
What happened
Between 14 and 16 August 2020 there were eight transactions made from Miss Rs debit 
card, held with HSBC, to various merchants in Paris, France totalling £2,408.17 (including 
fees). 
Miss R says her card was stolen and she realised this on 16 August 2020, after she went to 
transfer some money to her brother and noticed her account was in debt. Miss R also says 
her driving licence and some cash had been stolen. 
The last time Miss R used her card for a chip and PIN transaction was 4 August 2020 and 
the last time it was used for a contactless payment was 12 August 2020.
Miss R contacted HSBC to report the lost / stolen card and to report the fraudulent 
transactions that had taken place between 14 and 16 August 2020. HSBC stopped the card 
at this point.
There were two further attempted transactions totalling around £115 (that were made from 
France) on 17 August 2020 which were declined as the card had been blocked / stopped.
Miss R says she has never been to Paris and provided proof of this from UK Visas & 
Immigration.
Miss R said the last time she had used her card was when she went to Harrods. And she 
said she didnt see anyone she knew while she was there.
Miss R has said her PIN had been the same for a number of years. Miss R said the PIN was 
simple and easy to remember and she had memorised it and it wasnt written down. She 
hadnt disclosed it to anyone, and no one knew it as far as she was aware. Miss R also said 
she would never have given her card and PIN to anyone. 
Miss R wanted HSBC to refund the transactions that she hadnt authorised. Miss R was also 
unhappy that HSBC didnt do more to prevent the fraudulent transactions  such as 
contacting her when the transactions abroad were made. Miss R feels had she been notified 
that her card was being used abroad then it would have uncovered that her card had been 
stolen and had this happened any further transactions could have been prevented.
Miss R was also unhappy that her account, as it didnt have an overdraft facility, was allowed 
to go into debt.
Miss R was also unhappy that when she logged the fraud claim with HSBC, she was told 
that she would receive a call within ten days  which HSBC didnt adhere to.
HSBC investigated the matter and informed Miss R during a call, on 29 August 2020, that it 
wasnt going to refund her for the transactions she was disputing. 
Miss R formally complained about the matter to HSBC. Miss R was also unhappy with the 
way in which she was spoken to during the call of 29 August 2020 discussing the fraud and 
the activity on her account.
HSBC issued a final response to Miss R on 5 October 2020. Broadly summarised, it 
considered that all the disputed transactions were completed with Miss Rs genuine card 
being used and were all correctly authenticated by Miss Rs PIN, with no incorrect PIN 
attempts made. 
As Miss R last used her card for a chip and PIN transaction on 4 August 2020 and still had 
her card in her possession on 12 August 2020 when it was used for a genuine contactless 
payment, HSBC felt there wasnt a chance for an opportunistic fraudster to obtain the card 
and PIN. 
HSBC also considered that had an opportunistic fraudster managed to obtain the card and 
PIN then it would have been more likely that it was immediately used as opposed to an 
unknown fraudster waiting for two days and travelling to, and using it, in France.
HSBC also said that there were two credits to the account, one for £1,250 on 
12 August 2020 and a second further credit of £500 on 13 August 2020. HSBC considered 
as an unknown fraudster wouldnt have known the balance but proceeded to use the card 
without being concerned that the transactions could be declined. 
With regards to Miss R comments that she hadnt left the UK, it advised it would be happy to 
review any additional information Miss R provided.
HSBC also explained that disputed transactions were not highlighted by its fraud detection 
systems and were not deemed as suspicious. In short it explained there were several factors 
that influence its fraud detection system, and these included (but were not limited to) the 
type of retailer, method of transaction, the transaction amount, the transaction time. It 
explained the factors change constantly in order to mirror the current fraud trends. And in 
Miss Rs case HSBC said the transactions didnt flag as suspicious or indicate to it that 
Miss R was at risk of financial harm.
With regards to the transactions taking Miss R into debt, HSBC explained that the terms and 
conditions of the account allow for an informal overdraft limit with a limited tolerance which 
helps its customers avoid returned payments such as direct debits or standing orders or to 
help avoid the embarrassment of a refused or decline transaction.
HSBC accepted that the level of customer service Miss R experienced fell short of its 
standards, as Miss R wasnt given a call within the timeframe it provided. It apologised for 
this and offered £25 as compensation. HSBC also advised that it would listen to the call 
Miss R had and provide feedback to the call handler.
Overall HSBC said that it was unable to conclude that the transactions had been made 
without Miss Rs knowledge and consent and therefore considered Miss R was liable for 
them.
Miss R responded to HSBC on 20 October 2020. Miss R advised she would obtain 
information to show she had not left the country and also explained the credits that came 
into her account on the 12 and 13 August 2020.  Miss R reiterated that she didnt know how someone came to know her PIN. Miss R also 
explained that the fraudster who used her card also didnt know the balance, as the account 
had gone overdrawn. And that after the card had been stopped two further attempted 
transactions had been made.
Miss R explained that the blame shouldnt fall on her because a fraudster used the correct 
PIN first time round. Miss R considered HSBC hadnt protected her, as her card had never 
been used overseas and HSBC should have contacted her to confirm the activities on her 
account, which would have prevented the loss.
HSBC responded to Miss R on 21 October 2020. It explained that it wasnt blaming Miss R 
for the disputed transactions taking place, but that it was trying to establish liability based on 
how the disputed transactions were made. It explained that as Miss Rs correct PIN was 
used, it was unlikely that an unknown party could have correctly guessed and entered the 
PIN. So considered Miss R was liable.
It also reiterated to Miss R that the transactions didnt flag on its fraud detection system and 
because of this no text message was sent.
Overall, HSBC remained of the decision to hold Miss R liable for the transactions. 
Unhappy, Miss R referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and didnt uphold it. Broadly summarised they considered Miss R authorised the 
transactions. In other words, they considered they were most likely carried out with Miss Rs 
knowledge and consent.
As Miss R disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out, and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Before I go on to explain my findings, I would like to add at this point that this decision 
focuses solely on the disputed transactions and whether I think it was likely that they were 
either carried out with or without Miss Rs consent. That is the crux of this complaint. I 
acknowledge that HSBC had a concern about incoming credits to Miss Rs account and our 
investigator commented on some of Miss Rs account usage. 
I do understand that in determining what happened, a thorough investigation is required. 
However I dont consider these to be relevant to this case and relevant to the issue at hand -
and I will therefore not be commenting on these aspects.
When considering whats fair and reasonable I am required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have to reach my findings on what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened, based on the balance of probabilities.The relevant regulations in place at the time are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSR 2017). 
PSR 2017 says a payment transaction is regarded as authorised if the payer has given 
consent to the execution of the payment transaction. And if a payment service user 
(customer) says they havent authorised an executed payment  the payment service 
provider (in this case HSBC) has to prove the payment transaction was authenticated.  
If it is deemed that a payment transaction hasnt been consented to, it isnt authorised. PSR 
2017 goes on to say a payment service provider is required to refund the amount of an 
unauthorised transaction to the payer.
Miss R says she didnt consent to or authorise the transactions as her card was stolen and 
used abroad while she was in the UK. Miss R is seeking a refund of the total transactions 
made from her account that she says she didnt authorise. HSBC has said the disputed 
transactions were made using Miss Rs genuine card and PIN with the correct PIN being 
entered. And as there was no point of compromise of Miss Rs PIN, it considers she is liable 
for the transactions. 
So, first I need to think about whether the evidence I have suggests that the transactions 
were authenticated and then second, I need to consider whether I think it is likely that they 
were carried out with or without Miss Rs consent.
 
The disputed transactions  were they authenticated?
 
HSBC has provided evidence to show that Miss Rs genuine card was used for all the 
disputed transactions. This is known by the chip that sits within the card. The payment 
transactions were all authenticated by the correct PIN being entered  with no incorrect 
attempts being made.
So Im satisfied from HSBCs technical evidence that Miss Rs genuine card was physically 
present when each of the disputed transactions were made and that the payments in 
question were authenticated by Miss Rs correct PIN being entered. 
This means I now need to determine whether Miss R consented to the payments being 
made.
In order to do this, Ive looked at whether an unknown or known party to Miss R could have 
made the transactions without her consent, or whether I think Miss R, or somebody with her 
knowledge and consent, made the transactions Miss R is now disputing.
Could an unknown party have made the transactions?
Miss R says she hadnt written down her PIN and had it memorised, and she also hadnt 
shared it with anyone. Miss Rs PIN had remained the same since June 2010 and was a PIN 
of Miss Rs choosing. Miss R was unsure at what point her card, driving license and cash 
had either been lost or taken. 
Miss R last used her card for a chip and PIN transaction on 4 August 2020. And the other 
time it was used after this date was for a contactless payment made to a retailer on 
12 August 2020  two days prior to the card being used in France. It is unlikely that Miss R lost her card on or after the 12 August 2020 and an unknown party 
simply found it and used it. Had this happened the unknown party wouldnt have known the 
PIN. And the likelihood of an unknown party, while not knowing the PIN, correctly entering a 
PIN is highly improbable. If an unknown party did obtain the card  and not knowing the PIN 
 the most likely scenario is that it would be used for contactless transactions. But that didnt 
happen here. The card was used for transactions that required chip and PIN.
This means the unknown party would have had to have known Miss Rs PIN to use the card. 
The last time Miss R entered her PIN was on 4 August 2020 when she made a chip and PIN 
payment. Had an unknown third party managed to have sight of and obtain Miss Rs PIN 
(often referred to as shoulder surfing) they still would have had to obtain Miss Rs card 
which Miss R still had on her on 12 August 2020  eight days later.
It is unlikely an unknown party, if they had obtained Miss Rs PIN on 4 August 2020, would 
wait eight days to take the card or have an opportunity to steal it. 
I also have to consider that had an unknown party managed to obtain the card at some point 
(also knowing the PIN)  it is likely they wouldnt have waited around to use it. With an 
opportunistic theft  the card is typically used as quickly as possible. This didnt happen 
here. If an unknown third party had managed to have sight of the PIN and managed to 
obtain the card, they would have likely tried to maximise the use of the card and as quickly 
as possible. It is unlikely they would wait for two days to use it, as there is the risk Miss R 
would have realised the card was missing and reported it lost or stolen. 
So I cant be as sure as I would need to be that an unknown party to Miss R obtained her 
PIN and then subsequently stole the card and made the transactions. 
Could Miss R have made the transactions?
The disputed transactions took place between 14 and 16 August 2020 in Paris, France. 
Miss R has said she has never been to Paris and provided proof of this from UK Visas & 
Immigration.
As Miss R was most likely in the UK, Im satisfied Miss R didnt carry out the transactions 
herself.
Could a known party have made the transactions without Miss Rs consent?
If someone known to Miss R had been able to use her card because they had stolen it along 
with her security credentials, it would be fair and reasonable for HSBC to refund the 
transactions.
But the information Ive been provided to consider doesnt support this as being more likely 
than not how Miss Rs card was used. I find it unlikely that a known party had managed to 
obtain Miss Rs PIN without her consent either prior to, or on, 4 August 2020 when Miss R 
last used her card through chip and PIN and then also obtained the card at some point after 
12 August 2020 when Miss R last used it for a genuine contactless transaction. 
Miss R has said her PIN wasnt written down and she had memorised it. Based on Miss Rs 
use of her card, alongside what she has said about her PIN, I cant see a point at which her 
PIN was compromised. I cant see how anyone could have had the opportunity or acquired 
the security credentials to do so based on the circumstances Miss R has described.
So I think its unlikely that a known person to Miss R obtained her PIN and then her card and 
carried out the transactions without Miss Rs consent.As I consider that the transactions were unlikely to have been carried out by an unknown 
party to Miss R and I cant see how Miss Rs PIN was compromised enabling a known party 
to carry out the transactions; I consider it is more likely that a known party to Miss R made 
the transactions with her knowledge, authority and consent.
While Miss R says she hadnt shared her PIN with anyone and would never give her card or 
give anyone consent to use her card, I cant see any other plausible explanation for the 
transactions than Miss R had shared her PIN. 
Overall, taking everything into consideration, it seems likely that somebody with Miss Rs 
knowledge or authority, carried out the transactions Miss R is disputing. 
I appreciate Miss Rs comments around receiving notifications of the transactions would 
have prevented the use of the card  however HSBC has advised that the transactions did 
not flag on its detection system. This seems fair and reasonable as the transactions were 
authorised and werent for a particularly larger or unusual amount considering Miss R typical 
spend. And importantly Im satisfied that somebody with Miss Rs knowledge or authority, 
carried out the transactions.
With regards to Miss Rs comments about the transactions taking her into debt  HSBC has 
made it clear that under the terms and conditions of the account a customer has an informal 
overdraft limit with a limited tolerance. So when a transaction was made that was authorised 
through chip and PIN and took Miss R overdrawn it allowed the transaction to go through. I 
dont find this unfair.
So, after taking everything into consideration, for the reasons Ive explained above, I cant 
fairly say HSBC should be responsible for the transactions.
HSBC also offered £25 compensation for the service it provided and offered to feedback to 
its call handler in regard to the conversation Miss R had with it on 29 August 2020. This 
seems fair, and as I am not upholding Miss Rs complaint, I dont direct it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman