DRN-4430751
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard gave misleading 
information about an Avios promotion. 
What happened
Mr B has told us he saw a promotion that said Barclays would award 100,000 Avios points to 
customers who opened a new bank account and Avios Barclaycard. Mr B has explained he 
already had credit cards with Barclaycard and was told that if he transferred one to the Avios 
Barclaycard, after switching his bank account, he would qualify for 100,000 Avios points. 
Mr B went on to complete an account switch to Barclays. Once the account switch had been 
completed, Mr contacted Barclays to convert one of his Barclaycards to the Avios 
Barclaycard. But when Mr B tried to convert his Barclaycard via Barclays app it wasnt 
possible to do so. Mr B was told that if he cleared one of his existing Barclaycards it could be 
converted to the Avios Barclaycard. Mr B cleared the balance from one of his Barclaycards 
but was then advised he didnt qualify for the Avios Barclaycard. As a result, Mr Bs told us 
he received 20,000 Avios points but not the full 100,000 offered in the promotion. 
Mr B complained and Barclays sent him a final response on 27 January 2023. Barclays 
apologised that Mr B was given the wrong information about his eligibility for the Avios 
Barclaycard promotion. Barclays paid Mr B £300 to apologise for the distress and 
inconvenience caused and agreed to reinstate the 0% balance transfer promotion he had on 
the Barclaycard that was repaid. Barclays final response explained that the Avios promotion 
Mr B wanted to take was only available to new Barclaycard customers. As Mr B was an 
existing customer, he wouldve had to select a promotion from the available product 
transfers. Barclays accepted Mr B had been misled by staff and switched his bank account 
as a result. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Bs complaint. In its file submission, Barclays 
agreed to offer Mr B a further £50, taking the total award to £350, for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. The investigator agreed that Barclays had made mistakes but felt it 
had agreed a fair settlement to resolve Mr Bs complaint and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mr B asked to appeal and said Barclays had failed to make it clear that the Avios 
Barclaycard with 100,000 Avios points promotion was only available to new customers. As 
Mr B asked to appeal his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
I can understand why Mr B is annoyed at the information provided by Barclays before he 
decided to move his bank account. Clearly, Mr B was of the view that he would be able to 
switch one of his existing Barclaycards to the Avios Barclaycard and, as a result, would 
qualify for the points reward. Barclays has accepted that members of staff provided incorrect 
advice on this point on a number of occasions. I agree that Mr B was caused an 
unreasonable level of distress and inconvenience in this case. And Im satisfied Mr B would 
most likely not have moved his bank account to Barclays if hed been given the right 
information. 
Mr Bs queried the eligibility criteria for the Avios Barclaycard promotion. I understand Mr B 
felt the promotional information failed to show it was only available to new customers. But 
Barclays has provided its criteria and Im satisfied the Avios Barclaycard with 100,000 points 
reward was only available to customers who didnt already have a Barclaycard. Existing 
customers can only select product transfers that are available to them at the time of 
application. 
I can see further confusion was caused when Mr B was told that if he cleared the balance of 
one of his existing Barclaycards it could be converted to an Avios Barclaycard. Mr B 
complied with that request, despite the Barclaycard having an existing promotion on it. 
Again, Im satisfied this caused Mr B an unnecessary level of inconvenience by being given 
the wrong advice.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B as I agree there are grounds to uphold his complaint, but I cant 
tell Barclays to provide a product he wasnt entitled to take. And as Ive said above, Im 
satisfied the criteria was for new customers not existing Barclaycard holders. I cant tell 
Barclays to proceed as if Mr B was a new Barclaycard customer. 
I agree that the service and information provided to Mr B by Barclays was poor at times. And 
Im satisfied the information Barclays gave Mr B persuaded him to proceed with an account 
switch to Barclays. Overall, Im satisfied there are reasonable grounds to award 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr B. 
Barclays initially offered Mr B £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused but increased 
its offer by a further £50. Whilst I understand my decision is likely to come as a 
disappointment to Mr B, Im satisfied that a settlement of £350 reflects the level of trouble 
and upset caused by Barclays mistakes and is a fair and reasonable way to resolve his 
complaint. To put it another way, the settlement is very much in line with what I wouldve told 
Barclays to pay had no offer been made. As Im satisfied Barclays has already made an offer 
that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not telling it to increase the award or 
take any other action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard to settle by paying him a total of £350 (less any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Marco ManenteOmbudsman