DRN-4114314
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) 
irresponsibly agreed an overdraft for them when Mr C was going through treatment for a 
serious health condition. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C were granted an overdraft with Halifax in 2016 when Mr C was undergoing 
treatment for a serious health condition. In late 2019 Mr and Mrs C complained that the 
overdraft charges applied to their account had caused them financial difficulty and that they 
had previously raised this but hadnt received a response. Mr and Mrs C wished to set up a 
repayment plan for the overdraft. 
Halifax issued a final response to this complaint on 18 November 2019. It didnt uphold the 
complaint but agreed to refund charges of £100 and compensated them £25 for any 
inconvenience caused. Mr and Mrs C were dis-satisfied with this and raised a further 
complaint regarding the lack of assistance theyd received and at the same time informed 
Halifax about Mr Cs health condition. Halifax issued a further final response in December 
2019  again it didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and provided their referral rights to 
this service. 
Mr and Mrs C raised a further complaint about the overdraft lending in September 2021 - in 
particular, they felt the lending had been irresponsible. Halifax didnt uphold their complaint 
and again issued Mr and Mrs C with their referral rights to this service. 
Mr and Mrs C continued to have concerns with the lending and raised a further complaint in 
September 2022. Halifax reinvestigated Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and agreed that it had 
failed to review whether the overdraft had been irresponsibly lent. On review Halifax agreed 
the overdraft granted in 2016 may not have been suitable as in the months leading up to the 
application if it had reviewed the account usage it wouldve seen they had missed 16 direct 
debits in a short space of time. Halifax upheld this element of their complaint and to put 
things right it:
Refunded all overdraft fees paid since July 2016 amounting to £8,302.20; and
Paid 8% interest on this for the time they didnt have the money amounting to 
£554.90; and
Paid £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused;
Removed the overdraft facility and restricted any further lending for 12 months.  
Mr and Mrs C were dis-satisfied with this and brought their complaint to this service. They 
dont feel £50 compensation was enough.
One of our adjudicators looked at this and thought that what Halifax had offered is in-line 
with what wed recommend and thought the compensation of £50 was enough and didnt 
think it needed to do anything more. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed, and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr and Mrs C wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint 
and the background to it in the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution 
service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules 
allow me to do that.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Halifax has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr and Mrs C is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. But for complaints about funds which shouldnt have been provided this isnt straight 
forward as the funds were provided and, in most cases  such as here, have long since 
been spent.
So we look to try and find some other way to put things right. And where a business 
increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should have 
realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd 
be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This means wed 
normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the 
point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those interest and 
charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case, on review Halifax agreed to refund all interest and charges applied to Mr and 
Mrs Cs overdraft facility following it being granted in 2016 and pay interest on top of this for 
the period they didnt have the money. This is in-line with what Id recommend if Id made a 
finding that the overdraft was lent irresponsibly, so Halifax has done what Id expect it to do 
here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provide credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr and Mrs C say Halifax should do something different here. They dont think the 
compensation is enough considering the time it has taken to get their complaint settled and 
the stress and anxiety caused all while Mr C was still undergoing medical treatment. 
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs C have said and I sympathise with all they have been 
through, but what theyve said is a reason for upholding their complaint rather than a reason 
for departing from our normal approach to putting things right in cases such as theirs. 
Im also conscious that the very difficult medical condition that has impacted their lives  was 
independent of the lending decisions made by Halifax. And it must also be noted that Halifax provided Mr and Mrs C with their referral rights to this organisation on a number of occasions 
but that they chose to continue to raise their concerns with Halifax on the matter.
Halifax has already compensated Mr and Mrs C £50 on top of the interest, fees and charges 
Halifax shouldnt have added - as well as paying interest on this for the period they didnt 
have the money. Bearing all of this in mind Im not persuaded further compensation is 
warranted here or that it would make a material difference to Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances.
So it follows that I think what Halifax have already done to put things right for Mr and Mrs C 
is a fair way to settle their complaint and Im not requiring it to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland plc has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr and Mrs C is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman