DRN-4194072
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt pay out on his credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when he became unemployed on two occasions.
What happened
Mr P originally told us that he was made redundant in 2004 and 2009.
He arranged the credit card with another lender that Barclays took over in 2007. Barclays 
has a record of the PPI being active on Mr Ps credit card account between 2 November 
2001 and 19 May 2004. It cant find any record of Mr P making any previous insurance 
claims. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint on the basis that Barclays wasnt responsible for 
the PPI when Mr P first became unemployed and that there was no policy for Mr P to claim 
against in 2009. 
Mr P disagrees with the adjudicators view and so the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To clarify matters, the card provider and the insurer of the PPI policy are rarely the same 
business.
The available evidence shows that Mr P took out the card in November 2001 and that the 
PPI was set up at the same time. The card provider at that time was someone else, not 
Barclays. And there was another party acting as the insurer of the PPI policy.
Given the dates that the PPI was active, we asked Mr P to provide more information about 
the specific dates he was unemployed. His response was to say that he lost his job in 2003, 
not 2004 and then again in 2009.
Although Mr P says that he did submit claims, completed claim forms and provided 
information from his employers in support of his claims, he hasnt provided any 
correspondence or documentation to evidence this. 
If he had made a claim in 2003 or 2004, he might have initially spoken to the card provider. 
But it would have been the insurer who sent him the claim form and actually assessed the 
claim based on the information provided by Mr P. Its perhaps not surprising that Barclays 
doesnt have any record of a claim being made at this time as it pre-dates its involvement. 
But to be clear, even if I was able to conclude that Mr Ps first claim should have been paid, 
it would not be Barclays who would be liable for paying it. Any complaint about a claim being 
declined at that time would need to be addressed to the then insurer.
As already mentioned, the PPI ended in May 2004 (even though the credit card itself 
continued to run). Barclays has provided a copy of the credit card statement for May 2004, 
which shows a premium being taken for PPI. It has also provided a statement for June 2004 
which shows no premium being taken for PPI. So, based on the available evidence, I am 
satisfied that the PPI was cancelled on 19 May 2004 as per Barclays records.
As Mr P didnt have PPI on the credit card account in 2009, he would not have been able to 
make a claim against it. And Barclays has no record of him making contact at that time.
Although Barclays didnt take over the credit card until 2007 it has offered to look into this 
issue further for Mr P if he can provide any evidence of having made a claim in 2003 or 
2004. I consider this to be a fair response to Mr Ps complaint.
Otherwise, Mr P may wish to contact the insurer who was responsible for underwriting the 
PPI in 2003/04 to make a retrospective claim. However, our adjudicator has explained the 
potential difficulties around this in that he would need to provide a sufficient level of proof for 
any claim to be successful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman