DRN-1511674
 
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement 
with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS), trading as Alphera Financial 
Services.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think BMWFS have been fair and Im asking them to take some 
additional action, for these reasons:
Ive been provided with two inspection reports for the car. Both confirm there have been 
quite extensive repairs to it and Im persuaded, as were the inspectors, that these repairs 
were present on the vehicle when Mr M took receipt of it. I note that the independent 
inspector who is an expert in these matters said (they) would have been present at the 
time of purchase.
The relevant legislation does suggest that if the condition of the car is obvious at the point of 
supply, we should consider that the consumer has accepted that condition. But here I dont 
think the repairs were obvious to an untrained eye. The independent inspection completed in 
May 2019 confirms this and says the front bumper repairs were obvious but all other areas 
and conditions may not have been very easy to see. Its clear that some damage was to 
the underside of the car and that some underside panels were missing. I dont think that 
would have been obvious to Mr M when he inspected the car prior to taking receipt of it or 
that he ought to have noticed it.
The independent inspector commented that the car had moderately heavy damage. I think 
its clear that it wasnt of acceptable quality when supplied and the fairest resolution would 
be to allow Mr M to now reject the car and terminate his finance agreement with BMWFS.
Putting things right
BMWFS should take the car back and end the finance agreement.
Theyll need to return Mr Ms deposit as hell need that to finance a replacement vehicle. 
They should add 8% simple interest to that refund as Mr M has been deprived of the money 
whilst financing a car that was of unsatisfactory quality.
I think they should also refund 20% of the finance instalments Mr M has been making. I say 
that because, whilst hes had use of the car, I think the damage to it will have spoilt his 
enjoyment.
Its also clear that Mr M has experienced some distress and inconvenience. Hes had to 
arrange an inspection of the vehicle and hes had to progress his complaint through this 
service when I think it could have been resolved much earlier. So, in those circumstances, I 
think BMWFS should compensate him and I would agree with the investigator that £250 is 
enough.
Mr M had to pay £30 for the report he commissioned so that should be refunded to him as 
well as he would not have had to commission the report if the car was of satisfactory quality. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
cancel the finance agreement at no further cost to Mr M;
collect the car at no cost to Mr M;
refund Mr Ms deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
refund 20% of all instalments Mr M has paid towards his finance agreement;
refund the £30 Mr M paid for the report he commissioned;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ms credit file in relation to 
this issue;
pay Mr M £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman