DRN-3926866
The complaint
Mr A complains that Creation Financial Services Limited declined his claim under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for a refund of his purchase of a faulty computer monitor.
What happened
In March 2022 Mr A bought a computer monitor for £1,214. The purchase was financed by a 
loan from Creation. In May he reported that the monitor was no longer working, and tried to 
return it to the retailer for a full refund. The retailer accepted that the monitor was defective, 
but instead of refunding him it offered to replace the monitor with another one. But Mr A did 
not accept that offer, as he had already bought a replacement from a third party, and had 
paid roughly the same price again.
Mr A asked Creation to refund him, under section 75. There was no dispute that the monitor 
was defective. But Creation did not agree that Mr A was entitled to a refund, since under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 the retailer had been entitled to offer him a free replacement 
instead of a refund. Being dissatisfied with that response, Mr A brought this complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators considered this complaint, but she did not uphold it. She said the 
retailer didnt have to give a refund, and was entitled to offer a replacement monitor. As 
Creations liability under section 75 was the same as the retailers, it had been entitled to 
reject Mr As claim. Mr A asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 makes Creation jointly and equally liable with the retailer for any breach of 
contract by the retailer in relation to a purchase funded by Creation. It is an implied 
contractual term that any goods sold to a consumer must be of satisfactory quality. It is not in 
dispute that the monitor was defective, so I only need to consider what the proper remedy is.
Under the Consumer Rights Act, the retailer is entitled to replace the defective monitor with 
another one, and is not obliged to give Mr A a refund unless the replacement fails too. Since 
Creations liability under section 75 is the same as the retailers, Creation reasonably took 
the view that it did not have to refund Mr A either. So I cannot say that Creation mishandled 
Mr As section 75 claim.
I have thought about the fact that Mr A had already purchased a replacement monitor from 
somewhere else, and he didnt need two monitors. But that does not affect the retailers 
rights, or Creations liability. It is still open to him to accept a replacement from the retailer 
and then to sell it as new. But I cant fairly require Creation to do anything else.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman