DRN-3340742
The complaint
Mr W complains that QIC Europe Limited has unfairly declined his home insurance claim for 
accidental damage to his wall and fence panels. 
What happened
Mr W made a claim to QIC in June 2021 after his next-door neighbour caused damage to his 
garden wall and fence.  Mr W explained to QIC that his neighbour was replacing the deck at 
the rear of his property and when the deck was taken down by the neighbours builder the 
wall supporting it collapsed. The collapsed wall damaged two of Mr Ws fence panels and 
caused the supporting wall for his own deck to crack and move from its original position. Mr 
W said this rendered his deck and garden unusable for safety reasons.
QIC instructed a surveyor to attend and inspect the damage. He reported that the wall 
retained the rear elevated garden and was approximately 3m in height and 5m long. He 
noted that the wall was continuous into the neighbours property, appeared to have been 
constructed correctly and that the timber decking had been fixed to its top and had been in 
place for some time without failure. He went on to note that the proximate cause was 
unknown and to be determined by an engineer. 
QIC referred the report to its in-house engineer for review after which the claim was 
declined. Mr W then complained. QIC looked into his complaint and said that his claim had 
been considered under the subsidence, heave and landslip section of his policy. It said it 
was satisfied that the damage wasnt consistent with any of these events and, even if was, 
damage to fences and garden walls was only covered if the main building/house was 
damaged at the same time by the same cause which, QIC said, it hadnt been. QIC also 
pointed out that there was an exclusion under the same section for damage that was caused 
by alterations, renovations, demolitions or repairs. QIC explained that the correct outcome 
had been reached so it wouldnt be upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Unsatisfied with the outcome of QICs investigation, Mr W then complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint for him and said to QIC that Mr W had additional 
accidental damage (AD) to buildings cover on his policy so she asked why his claim hadnt 
been assessed against this section of the policy. She also asked QIC to provide the notes 
from its investigation if it had indeed considered the claim against the additional AD section. 
QIC responded to say that it obviously always considered whether any section of the policy 
would respond to a claim and said that it had looked at the additional AD section. It went on 
to say that unfortunately the damage Mr W had reported didnt meet the policy definition of 
accidental damage which is why it hadnt been considered under this section. It also said 
that that there was a specific exclusion to the additional AD section which stated it didnt 
cover loss or damage excluded under covers 1 to 10 so, as the damage was specifically 
excluded under the subsidence, heave and landslip section (section 9) it wasnt covered.  
Our investigator considered what QIC had said and pointed out that the damage Mr W had 
reported did meet the policy definition of accidental damage. And she said the exclusion QIC 
had cited related to the subsidence, heave and landslip section none of which had caused 
the damage Mr W had reported. So, she said, she couldnt see how this section was 
relevant. Our investigator asked QIC to explain why the damage Mr W was claiming for 
didnt meet the policy definition of accidental and why an exclusion relating to subsidence, 
heave and landslip was relevant. 
QIC replied to say that the policy definition for AD required the damage to be unexpected 
and it disputed that the damage reported by Mr W could be described as such. It said that 
the wall that was damaged was a retaining wall and therefore particular precautions 
shouldve been taken before works which could compromise the structural integrity of the 
wall were undertaken. It then went on to refer our investigator to the general policy exclusion 
for damage caused by poor workmanship which, it said, it was satisfied could be applied. It 
said Mr W should claim against his neighbours contractors insurance or pursue a legal 
claim against the contractor.  
Having considered QICs responses our investigator issued her findings recommending that 
Mr Ws complaint was upheld. She recommended that QIC accept the claim and pay Mr W 
compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by incorrectly 
declining his claim. 
QIC disagreed with our investigators conclusions. It said the damage to the wall was caused 
by the removal of the neighbours decking which a competent tradesperson wouldnt have 
done without first considering the implications on the structural integrity of the wall of doing 
so. It said the contractor displayed poor workmanship by removing decking which could, and 
subsequently did, affect the wall and lead to its collapse. It said the poor workmanship 
exclusion could either be applied to the removal of the decking or the walls construction.
It asked for the complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with out investigator that this is a complaint that should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
QIC considered and declined Mr Ws claim against the subsidence, heave and landslip 
section of his policy. It was that section, and its specific exclusions, which were 
communicated to Mr W as the reason his claim was being declined. It was also that specific 
section of cover and its specific exclusion that was again cited by QIC in its final response 
letter as the reason why it was declining the claim. 
Clearly the damage Mr W reported was not the result of subsidence, heave or landslip. 
There is no evidence of any downward or upward movement of the ground or any landslip. It 
is thus unclear to me why this section of cover was the one against which Mr Ws claim  a 
claim for damage caused suddenly by his neighbours builder - was considered against. That 
is especially the case when he had paid the additional premium to protect his buildings from 
damage caused by additional AD. 
It seems to me  due to the lack of any evidence to suggest otherwise  that the first time 
QIC considered Mr Ws claim against the additional AD cover under the policy was when it 
was first suggested by this service. As QIC will no doubt be aware, this service has provided 
guidance to the insurance industry that it should fully consider a claim against all insured 
perils that could potentially provide cover for before declining a claim. It is also good practice 
for an insurer to set out its conclusions clearly and in full. It doesnt appear that QIC did 
either of these things in this case. When QIC was questioned about its approach to this claim, it then appears to have done what it should have in the first place and consider the 
claim under the additional AD cover. It then attempted to again defeat the claim, for 
completely different reasons. I can only express disappointment in QICs approach to this 
claim and its policyholder, as I dont consider it could be considered to be treating its 
customer fairly.
The starting point for any claim is to consider if it is covered by the policy terms. I can see 
that Mr Ws policy includes the following relevant definitions: 
Accidental damage
Sudden, unexpected and physical damage which:
i. happens at a specific time: and
ii. was not deliberate; and 
iii. was caused by something external and identifiable
Buildings
Any permanent structure within your property.
This includes:
the structure of your home
boundary and garden walls;
gates, fences and hedges..
Property
The risk address shown in your schedule which you are legally responsible for, including the 
land and gardens.
And it includes the following section:
Section 1  Buildings cover
We cover your buildings up to the sum insured shown in your schedule against loss or 
damage caused by the following covers
Optional, upgraded cover
14. Additional accidental damage to the buildings. If you have asked for this cover, we will 
pay for accidental damage to your buildings.
The damage that Mr Ws wall and fence sustained happened accidentally. It was sudden, 
unexpected, happened at a specific time, wasnt deliberate and was caused by something 
external and identifiable. The policy says that if the optional upgraded AD cover is taken out 
then it will pay for accidental damage to buildings. As cited above, fences and garden walls 
form part of the definition of buildings. 
QIC has said that the damage wasnt unexpected in that a tradesperson shouldve 
anticipated such damage was possible and thus have taken particular precautions. So, it 
says, the damage wasnt accidental (as defined in the policy). But QIC has provided no 
evidence that the contractor failed to do so. Nor has it provided any evidence about the 
works the neighbours contractor undertook, how it assessed the risk, whether any mitigation 
was put in place or what actually happened. But for Mr W, the damage happened 
unexpectedly. That is, he didnt expect it to happen. In the absence of any evidence to show 
the damage was expected it is reasonable to conclude that the damage he reported 
happened accidentally and is, therefore, covered by the policy terms. So, the only way that QIC can defeat Mr Ws claim is to successfully rely on one of the policy 
exclusions to do so. As QIC is aware, the burden of proving that an exclusion can be 
successfully applied rests with the insurer. QIC has cited three exclusions. The first is an 
exclusion specific to the additional AD section of the policy. That section includes 11 
separate specific exclusions where QIC wont pay for additional AD to buildings. 
The first exclusion it seeks to rely on is the one that states it wont cover loss or damage 
specifically excluded from covers 1 to 10 (fire, theft, subsidence etc.). QIC said that as the 
damage was specifically excluded under section 9 (subsidence, heave or landslip) then this 
specific additional AD exclusion could be relied on. For the reasons Ive given above, as the 
damage hasnt been caused by subsidence, heave or landslip none of the exclusions 
specific to that section are relevant to this claim. It follows that Im unable to reasonably 
agree with QIC that this specific exclusion for additional AD claim on which it seeks to rely 
can be fairly applied to Mr Ws claim. 
QIC has also referred to another of the exclusions specific to the additional AD section which 
states that damage that is the result of any alterations, extensions, renovations or repairs to 
the buildings isnt covered. For this exclusion to be successfully applied, the alterations 
must be to the buildings (as defined in the policy). The policy definition of buildings refers to 
any permanent structure in your property. And property is defined as the risk address. In 
short this means that for this exclusion to apply the damage caused by alterations must be 
by alterations to the risk address. The damage was caused by alterations at the neighbours 
address. It follows that this exclusion cannot fairly be applied to Mr Ws claim. 
QIC has latterly sought to rely on the general policy exclusion for poor workmanship  either 
in the removal of the decking or the construction of the wall. Unfortunately for QIC its own 
surveyor reported the wall to be correctly constructed. Thus the only evidence that exists 
about the workmanship of the wall entirely undermines QICs position. So I cant agree that 
that the wall collapsed as a result of being poorly constructed. 
And whilst QIC says that there was poor workmanship associated with the removal of the 
decking it hasnt provided any evidence in support of its position. As I said above, the burden 
of proving that an exclusion can be successfully applied to a claim in order to defeat it rests 
with the insurer and unfortunately for QIC it hasnt provided any evidence to prove it was 
this, and not an accident, that caused the damage at Mr Ws home. 
It follows that, for the reasons Ive given, I think that the damage claimed for falls for cover 
under the additional accidental damage section of Mr Ws policy. Im unable to fairly agree 
with QIC that any of the exclusions it has sought to rely on can be used by it to defeat the 
claim. 
Putting things right
QIC has had an opportunity to consider this claim against the full policy terms so it should 
now accept the claim and settle it in line with those terms. Mr W has been put to some 
distress and inconvenience as a result of QICs decision to decline his claim  he has been 
unable to use his garden for example, as it is currently unsafe to do so. By their very nature, 
all insurance claims attract a certain level of inconvenience, thats to be expected. But where 
an insurer, through its words or deeds, makes an already stressful situation worse, this 
service can require that it pay compensation. For the avoidable distress and inconvenience 
QIC caused Mr W, I require it to pay him compensation of £150. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require QIC Europe Limited to take the 
steps set out in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman