DRN-1541009
The complaint
Mr S complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited settled his car insurance claim 
on a 50/50 split liability basis.
What happened
Mr S has a motor insurance policy underwritten by Markerstudy. In May 2019 he was 
involved in a collision. He explained that he was driving past some parked cars when the 
third party (TP) turned into the road and also drove past parked cars. As there wasnt 
enough space for two vehicles, Mr S says the TP collided with his car.
Mr S reported the incident to Markerstudy and was told that it was likely the claim would be 
settled on a 50/50 split liability basis because both vehicles were passing parked cars. But 
he was told the claims team would look at the evidence he had. Mr S submitted pictures 
taken after the accident but confirmed there was no CCTV or witness evidence.
Markerstudy settled Mr Ss claim on a 50/50 split liability basis. It said the evidence didnt 
point to one party being solely at fault for the accident. Mr S explained he didnt accept this 
and felt the TP was entirely at fault because Mr S was established on the road first.
Our investigator explained that it wasnt our role to determine liability in insurance 
complaints. But instead wed consider whether Markerstudy had reached its decision 
reasonably. Our investigator felt it had done so and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr S disagreed and asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He said that he 
feels the TP was fully liable for the accident.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that since bringing this complaint to this service Mr S has raised some 
additional issues about the way the claim has been handled. As these are being investigated 
separately Ive not commented on them in this decision.
It isnt my role to decide who was at fault in this accident, that is an issue better suited to a 
court of law. My role here is to look at whether Markerstudy was reasonable when it reached 
its decision to settle the claim in the way it did.
Ive looked at the version of events that Mr S provided, and the photographs he submitted. 
Ive also considered Markerstudys notes and the contact it had with the TPs insurer. Mr S 
and the TP collided both when overtaking parked cars. It doesnt appear that either party had 
a right of way. Mr S has said he was established on the road at the time, and that the TP had 
to swerve at an angle to pass another car. Mr S says he had no other option but to move 
forward.I can understand Mr Ss frustrations, particularly as he says he was already passing the 
parked cars when the TP turned into the road. But I dont think Markerstudy has been 
unreasonable when settling the claim in the way it has. Under the terms of Mr Ss policy 
Markerstudy has discretion on how to settle a claim. So Ive looked at whether it has done so 
reasonably.
I can see that Markerstudy considered Mr Ss version of events, and challenged the TPs 
insurer on liability. It explained to the TP insurer why his vehicle was over the central line 
and that he was established on the road. But the TP insurer felt that Mr S was entirely at 
fault because the TP had remained in his correct lane at all times and it was Mr S that wasnt 
in his lane.
There werent any witnesses to the accident, and the photographs show different angles. In 
some it shows both vehicles were pointing forward and in another it shows the TP vehicle at 
a slight angle. Either way, it does show that Mr Ss car was over the central line and the TP 
was inside the lane. So I think when the TP insurer made an offer to settle the claim on a 
50/50 split liability basis it was reasonable for Markerstudy to accept this. There wasnt any 
other available evidence to suggest it couldve challenged this successfully and reached a 
different outcome for Mr S. So, Im not upholding this complaint as I think Markerstudy 
reached its decision on liability fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman