DRN-4245303
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) has refused to refund the money she lost falling 
victim to a scam.
Mrs N is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Mrs N 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mrs N found an investment opportunity advertised on Facebook for Prime Coin 
(X). It explained that Mrs N could start investing with low initial deposits which she found in 
appealing. 
Mrs N carried out some online research about X before having a call with it where it took Mrs 
Ns personal information and found out what she was willing to invest.
Mrs N was then contacted again by X and it explained the investment process to her. X 
appeared to be very professional and knowledgeable about the investment, and persuaded 
Mrs N to make further investments with it.
Mrs N downloaded the screen sharing application AnyDesk on her mobile device as directed 
by X to complete trades. She also opened a Revolut account, and she was able to see her 
trading account with X in real time. She could see she was making a profit.
Mrs N made the following payments from her Revolut account to X via the cryptocurrency 
exchange (Binance) using the Skrill payment system:
Date Payee Amount Payment Method
7 July 2022 Skrill Ltd £7,500 Transfer
12 July 2022 Skrill Ltd £11,400 Transfer
14 July 2022 Skrill Ltd £10,300 Transfer
Mrs N realised she had been scammed when X stopped communicating with her and she 
was unable to make a withdrawal from her investment account.
Mrs N has been unable to recover the funds she lost to the scam.
Our Investigator considered Mrs Ns complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. As Mrs N 
disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Mrs N has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided
by both Mrs N and Revolut sets out what happened. What is in dispute is whether Revolut
should refund the money Mrs N lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Mrs N made
Mrs N made the payments into the scam via the method of transfer. When a payment is 
made in this way Revolut has limited options available to it to recover the funds. From the 
information provided by Revolut I can see that it did contact the business Mrs N made the 
payments to to recover them, but the funds had unfortunately already been moved on.
So, I am satisfied Revolut was unable to recover the payments Mrs N sent.
I have also considered if Mrs N should have received a refund under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. But the CRM code only applies when domestic 
payments (as the result of a scam) are sent to another person. Here Mrs N sent the 
payments to an account held in her own name and the scam occurred when the funds were 
moved from that account to the scammer. Im satisfied the CRM Code wouldnt apply in this 
scenario.
Should Revolut have prevented the payments Mrs N made?
Mrs N has accepted she authorised the payments she made from her Revolut account, so 
the starting point here is that Mrs N is responsible. However, banks and other Payment 
Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to 
fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money 
laundering.
The question here is whether Revolut should have stepped in when Mrs N was attempting to 
make the payments, and if it had, would it have been able to prevent the scam taking place.
The account Mrs N made the payments from was a new account which had no payment 
history to compare Mrs Ns usual spending habits with. But considering the size of the 
payments Mrs N made I think it would have been reasonable for Revolut to step in and 
question Mrs N about the payments. But I dont think this would have made a difference. Ill 
explain why.
Mrs N has confirmed that X coached her about what to say about the payments to Revolut 
had they asked, helping her to disguise what the payments were for. Mrs N also opened her 
Revolut account giving the reason for the account to be spend or save daily which wasnt 
accurate. 
Despite being coached by X to mislead Revolut Mrs N continued to make the payments as 
directed. So, I think X had built up a high level of trust with Mrs N whereby she trusted it over 
Revolut and I think she was likely to give misleading answers to Revolut had it asked her 
what the payments she was making was for.
The payments also showed as being paid to Skrill. Skrill offer other services unrelated to 
cryptocurrency so this would have disguised the payments further.
I think its unlikely that had Revolut stepped in and asked Mrs N about the payments it would 
have been able to uncover the scam and prevent it from progressing. So, Revolut is not 
responsible for Mrs Ns loss.Mrs N has explained that she was vulnerable at the time of the scam. A close family member 
was very ill and later passed away. While I sympathise with the circumstances Mrs N found 
herself in, I dont have enough to say she couldnt make daily decisions. So, this doesnt 
change my decision. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman