DRN-3394030
The complaint
Mr B and Miss C are unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance PLC 
(RSA) handled their pet insurance policy renewal. For ease of reference, Ill refer to 
Mr B throughout.
What happened
Mr B took out lifetime cover for his pet several years ago. The policy provided cover for 
any illness or injury and had a £7,000 policy limit. In January 2021, Mr B received a 
renewal quote from RSA for the 2021/2022 policy year. This said the premium for his 
policy was due to increase from £1,300.77 to £2,380.75.
Mr B then complained as he didnt think the price increase was fair. He was also 
unhappy RSAs adviser didnt give him the option of downgrading his policy like they had 
in previous years.
In response to the complaint, RSA apologised for their communication error, as they 
said Mr B should have been given the option of reducing the level of cover from 
premier to standard. The standard option was less expensive, but still provided £1,000 
of cover for each illness or injury. There was also a £4,000 total policy limit.
RSA offered to provide Mr B with a revised quote, but he decided against receiving this 
information as he told the adviser hed already changed insurer. RSA then offered Mr B 
£50 compensation to reflect any upset this issue may have caused him.
RSA didnt agree theyd made an error in relation to the price of the new premium. They 
also reminded Mr B that hed previously complained to this service about two earlier policy 
renewals. And as part of that complaint, he was warned that further significant premium 
increases were likely. They also explained that while the result of the previous complaint 
was that he was paid £500 compensation, that was to reflect any upset hed experienced 
due to the way the policy was sold. It wasnt an admission theyd previously priced his 
policy unfairly or incorrectly.
An investigator at this service then considered the current complaint. She didnt think RSA 
had made an error in relation to the premium increase. In reaching this conclusion, she 
highlighted the age of Mr Bs pet and the number of recent claims on the policy. She also 
felt the £50 compensation offer was fair.
Mr B disagreed with our investigators opinion. He said changing insurer had put him in 
a worse financial position. As in addition to paying his new policy premium, he now 
needs to pay around £660 each year to treat his pets pre-existing condition. So, RSAs 
£50 compensation offer wasnt good enough.
He also said RSA held him to ransom with the price increase, as they knew it was 
unlikely another insurer would provide him with a similar policy. So, increasing the price 
was simply their way of removing bad business from their books. He also didnt think 
the premium increase was justified by the age of his pet or the previous claims. The fact 
his new insurer priced his policy at £304.52 also indicated to him, that RSAs premium 
increases were excessive and unfair.
Our investigator didnt address these comments, but she did say the complaint would 
be considered by an ombudsman. 
Earlier this month, I issued a provisional decision for this case. RSA responded to the 
decision and said they didnt wish to add any comments. Mr B didnt reply and the deadline 
for replies has now passed. As neither side have provided me with any further comments, I 
have no reason to depart from the findings Ive already reached in this case. So, what 
follows is my provisional decision now made final. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive referred to Mr Bs previous complaint in the background section of this decision as I 
think it provides helpful context. But Id like to stress, I wont be addressing that complaint 
again here. Ill only address the way RSA handled Mr Bs 2021/2022 policy renewal.
Every insurer is entitled to decide how much risk there is of a claim being made  and 
how much to charge to cover that risk.
I would usually expect an insurer to apply their general view on risk consistently across all 
consumers to treat them fairly. RSA have provided our service with information to show 
what caused the 2021 premium increase. Its commercially sensitive, so it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to share the details.
But, in summary, RSA considers certain factors when deciding what amount to charge. 
As Mr B is aware, these factors include the age of the pet and previous claims made on 
the policy. The cost of insuring a pet will usually increase each year as the pet gets 
older and theres more risk of a claim being made. Insurers will also factor in the 
increasing costs of medical treatment.
Lifetime policies, like Mr Bs previous policy cover any conditions the insured pet develops 
on an ongoing basis for the rest of their lives  provided the policy continues. This cover 
may be expensive, and the yearly cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at 
renewal. There is no limit to how much the premium could be, and its not my place to 
create one.
RSA have shown the factors they applied to Mr Bs policy, and the way the premium 
increased in 2021, would likely have been the same for other policies in similar 
circumstances. Because of that, Im satisfied RSA treated Mr B fairly when they 
increased his premium as they did so in line with their general view on risk.
Every insurer prices their policies differently, but I dont find it surprising the premium 
for Mr Bs policy with his new insurer was less than RSAs. Its less expensive, but it 
doesnt
cover any ongoing or recurring medical conditions. So, there is considerably less 
risk associated with it for the insurer.
I appreciate Mr B feels strongly that his pets age and claims history dont justify the 2021 
premium price increase. But that was ultimately RSAs decision to make, not mine or his. 
Im also unable to direct any insurer to lower their prices. I dont regulate them either. However, I have considered if RSA acted fairly.
Mr B has said RSA tried to hold him to ransom with the premium increase. I appreciate 
why he feels this way. However, at the heart of every insurance policy is a risk 
assessment. Insurers are also businesses, so they are entitled to protect their own 
commercial interests and price their policies accordingly. This is provided they treat all 
their customers in a similar position fairly and consider the risk factors, as Ive already 
explained. Consumers are also free to shop around and decide which pet insurer theyd 
like to do business with  if any.
So, while I appreciate Mr B found the premium increase upsetting, Im not satisfied RSA 
priced his policy unfairly.
RSA have acknowledged, they let Mr B down by not offering to downgrade his policy 
when he first requested it. Its also clear they were willing to explore this option with him, 
once the error came to light.
To investigate this issue further, I asked Mr B to provide a copy of the policy documents 
he received from his new insurer. These show the policy started on 3 February 2021 and 
had a 14-day cancellation period included. During which time, the policy could have been 
cancelled and a premium refund provided. RSA offered to provide Mr B with a revised 
quote on 11 February 2021. So, this means he could reasonably have decided to cancel 
his new policy and remain insured with RSA instead.
Mr B may find it helpful to know, the premium for RSAs standard level of cover was £967. 
It was therefore still significantly more expensive, than the policy he ultimately decided to 
proceed with. If the cost of treating his pets pre-existing condition last year was £660 as 
hes suggested, this also means he didnt experience a financial loss due to changing 
insurer. As regardless of whether he paid for the treatment independently or through the 
downgraded RSA policy, the overall cost to him would still have been similar.
So, Im satisfied RSAs offer to pay Mr B £50 compensation was a fair and reasonable way 
for them to address their communication error. I dont think it would be fair to ask RSA to 
compensate Mr B any further than this, as they attempted to rectify the problem quickly 
and he decided against hearing the revised quote.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Mr B and 
Miss C £50 compensation in total  if they havent already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman