DRN-2687600
Complaint
Miss A is unhappy with the compensation Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop 
Direct) has offered as a result of irresponsibly providing two catalogue shopping accounts.  
Background
Miss A was provided an initial catalogue shopping account in November 2009. The account 
was opened with an initial credit limit of £300. This limit was increased five times before it 
eventually reached £1,400.00 in December 2010. Miss A also had an application for a 
second account accepted in December 2009. This account was opened with an initial credit 
limit of £250. The limit on this account was increased ten times until it eventually reached 
£2,300.00 in January 2011. Both of Miss As account fell into difficulty and in December 
2012 they were sold to a third-party debt-purchaser.
In 2019, Miss A complained that Shop Direct irresponsibly provided this credit to her. Shop 
Direct initially said that it would refund all of the interest and charges applied to the account 
from May 2011 onwards. Miss A was dissatisfied at this and referred her complaint to our 
service.
When it provided its file to us, Shop Direct told us it was prepared to refund all the remaining 
interest which hadnt already been refunded to Miss A. One of our adjudicators thought what 
Shop Direct had done to put things right was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the complaint as Miss A was left in the position where she only had to pay for the goods she 
purchased. Miss A remained dissatisfied and asked for an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice and how we 
typically say a lender should put things right in the event we think it shouldnt have provided 
credit - on our website. Ive referred to this approach when looking at Miss As case. 
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Shop Direct has already agreed to 
do to put things right for Miss A is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her 
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. At this point it might help for me to explain 
that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did something wrong, wed expect the 
business to put the consumer in the position they would be in if that wrong hadnt taken 
place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a consumer in the position theyd 
now be in if they hadnt been given the loan they shouldnt have. 
So where a business provided a consumer with credit that it shouldnt have, wed expect it to 
put the consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any interest and charges 
on that credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges 
added to any credit that shouldnt have been given. And if those interest and charges were 
paid also add 8% simple interest per year.  
In this case, the amount Miss A has paid so far isnt enough to cover the cost of the goods 
bought on her accounts. Thats why shes still left with balances on her accounts even 
though shes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges applied. So while Miss A 
has been left with balances on her accounts and she might be unhappy with this, Shop 
Direct has done what Id normally expect a firm to do where it irresponsibly provided credit.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. So while we 
have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right if it has 
provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can tell it to do something different 
and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what would be fair and 
reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case. 
Miss A says Shop Direct should do something different here. She wants the balances on her 
accounts written off. She says she only bought the goods her account balance is now made 
up of because her credit limit was increased. I understand Miss As argument but I dont find 
it persuasive. Miss A was offered credit limit increases in circumstances where she shouldnt 
have been. Nonetheless she purchased the goods in question, used them and benefitted 
from them. So I think its perfectly fair and reasonable to expect her to pay for these goods in 
these circumstances. I dont think that Miss As unhappiness at having a balance to repay, 
even after her complaint has been upheld, is in itself a compelling reason for me to depart 
from our usual approach here.
Miss A is also unhappy Shop Direct didnt buy her accounts back from the third-party debt 
purchaser it sold them to. A lender might sometimes decide to buy back a debt should it be 
required to put things right. But a lender isnt required to do this even. It can instead take 
other steps to ensure the customer doesnt lose out. In this case, Shop Direct paid Miss A an 
amount sufficient for her to be able to reduce the balance with the third-party to remove all 
the interest fees and charges applied. So Im satisfied Shop Direct has ensured Miss A 
hasnt lost out and Im not requiring it to buy her accounts back. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Shop Direct Finance Company Limited 
has already agreed to do to put things right for Miss A is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of her complaint. So Im not requiring it to do anything further.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman