DRN-2227746
The complaint
Mr L complains that Metro Bank PLC unfairly placed a Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance 
System (CIFAS) marker against his name. Hes also unhappy that Metro closed his 
accounts. He wants Metro to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience this 
caused.
What happened
Mr L had three accounts with Metro. 
In August 2015, a cheque for £21,000 made out to Mr L, was paid into his account ending 
0598, which was an account he hadnt used since March 2015. The cheque was paid into 
the account at a branch.
Metro identified that the cheque was fraudulent and was drawn against an account which 
had been closed at another bank - meaning the holder of the account from which it was 
made hadnt authorised the payment. Metro stopped the cheque, closed s accounts with 7 
days notice and placed a CIFAS marker against his name. Mr L didnt respond to the 
closure notice.
In September 2018, Mr L contacted Metro after hed visited a store to try and open a new 
account with the bank and had been told he couldnt open a new account as the bank had 
closed his previous account. Metro told Mr L that he could write to the bank to find out why it 
had closed his account. But Mr L didnt do this and instead he managed to open a new 
account online with the bank. And on 13 September 2018, he called the bank to activate his 
new bank card. 
On 9 November 2018, Metro sent Mr L an email to let him know it was closing his recent 
online opened account on 16 November 2018. However, from 9 November 2018, Metro 
blocked Mr Ls account which meant he wasnt able to use it or receive credits into the 
account.
On 10 November 2018, Mr L rang Metro as two credits of £30 and £50, which he was 
expecting into his account from his friend and partner, hadnt cleared. He explained that he 
needed the money for petrol and to buy food for his children. Metro explained that the 
payments had been returned to the sending banks. Mr L says this caused him a great deal 
of stress and inconvenience. And says Metro should have honoured the notice period 
instead of blocking his account. 
In December 2019, Mr L discovered that Metro had recorded a CIFAS marker against his 
name because of the fraudulent cheque which had been paid into his account. He 
complained to the bank, saying he knew nothing about the cheque. He told Metro that he 
believed his bank details had been compromised and suspects hes been the victim of a 
scam. Mr L said that hed lost the bank card to his account ending 0598 in June or July 
2015, which he says is possibly how his bank details had been compromised. But he didnt 
report the loss of his card to the bank as he was still able to use his bank cards relating to 
his other Metro accounts. 
Mr L says over the last four years because of the marker he hasnt been able to open bank 
accounts or obtain credit. And any bank account hes managed to open were closed soon 
after opening. So, hes had to use his partners account for his banking needs. He says he 
hasnt done anything wrong and Metro has treated him unfairly when it applied the CIFAS 
marker. So, he wants Metro to compensate him for the trouble and upset hes suffered.
In response to Mr Ls complaint Metro said it hadnt done anything wrong when it closed 
Mr Ls accounts and recorded the CIFAS marker. It said it was unclear how someone other 
than Mr L would have been able to access the £21,000 which was paid into his account. 
However, as a gesture of goodwill it decided to remove the CIFAS marker.  Mr L was 
unhappy with this response. So, he brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into things for him.
The investigator was satisfied that the cheque was fraudulent, and that Metro hadnt made a 
mistake when they placed a marker against Mr Ls name with CIFAS. She also said Metro 
were entitled to close his accounts. But she said it should have given him more notice 
instead of blocking his account. She said this had caused Mr L inconvenience and that Metro 
should pay him £50 compensation.
Mr L disagreed. In summary, he said he didnt agree Metro had enough evidence to show 
that he had been knowingly involved in the fraud. He didnt know when he lost his bank card 
but said it was before someone had paid the cheque into his account. He maintained that it 
wasnt him who had paid the cheque into the account and had Metro contacted him at the 
time he would have explained this to the bank.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have however come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar 
reasons.
Having looked at all the evidence Im satisfied that the cheque paid into Mr Ls account in 
August 2018 was fraudulent. But before placing a fraud marker against s name, Metro 
needed to have a reasonable belief that a financial crime had been committed and that the 
evidence was such that the matter could be reported to the police. A suspicion or concern 
isnt enough. So, Ive looked at whether Metro was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had and the investigation it carried out, and what the rules say about applying 
such markers. 
Mr L told Metro and the investigator he didnt pay the cheque into the account. And was in 
another area on the day it was deposited. That may well be the case but that doesnt in itself 
show that he didnt have an awareness of the cheque. Its quite possible that a third party 
deposited the cheque with his consent and knowledge. Im also satisfied that the branch 
CCTV footage (if it was still available) of someone other than Mr L depositing the cheque 
wouldnt establish Mr L wasnt expecting the deposit. 
Mr L has suggested that an unknown third party got hold of his bank account details and 
paid the cheque into his account. Hes told us that he lost his bank card for the account 
which the cheque was paid into. So, he says this is how someone else mightve managed to 
get his account information. Ive thought carefully about what hes said. Having done so I think its unlikely that an 
unknown third party would pay a cheque into Mr Ls account when they would have no 
means of accessing the money. I say this because even if I accept Mr L did lose his bank 
card, and the cheque was paid in without his knowledge, in order to access the funds, then 
not only would the unknown third party need Mr Ls bank card, theyd need to know his PIN. 
But Mr L has told us that he has never disclosed this to anyone else. Theres also no 
evidence that a new PIN was requested, or Mr Ls existing PIN was changed. So, I cant see 
how an unknown third party who found Mr Ls bank card would be able to access the 
£21,000 paid into his account.
Ive also kept in mind that Mr L didnt report his card as lost to the bank. And only did so 
once he became aware of the CIFAS marker, which was in late 2019. If Mr L had lost his 
card in 2018 as hes suggested, I wouldve expected him to alert Metro that his card was lost 
or stolen at the time in order his account could be safeguarded against fraud. I also dont 
think an unknown third party would run the risk of having to wait for the cheque to clear 
before being able to access the funds, which in this case wouldve been four working days, 
during which time Mr L may have discovered his account had been compromised. 
So, when I weigh everything up, Im not persuaded by Mr Ls version of events that he 
knows nothing about the cheque. Even if someone else had taken or found Mr Ls bank card 
there isnt a plausible explanation of how they would then gain access to the money. Taking 
everything into account even if Mr L didnt pay the cheque into his account himself, then I 
think he allowed someone else to do so. 
Mr L says the bank shouldve asked him about the cheque at the time. But I can see Metro 
did offer to explain its actions to Mr L on more than one occasion, which wouldve also 
provided Mr L an opportunity to explain his side of things. But Mr L didnt contact the bank to 
do so.  Mr L has since been given another opportunity to provide more detail around the 
cheque deposit, he wasnt able to provide any evidence to support what hes said about the 
cheque, but as a gesture of goodwill Metro removed the CIFAS marker.
In the circumstances, I think there wouldve been good grounds to report the events here to 
the police to investigate, and that Metro was therefore justified in placing a CIFAS marker 
against Mr Ls name. So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to award Mr L compensation 
since I dont think Metro acted inappropriately when it applied the marker.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Ls accounts, which it did on two occasions  in 
2015 and 2018. 
As the investigator explained, its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
On 11 August 2015, following the deposit of the fraudulent cheque into Mr Ls account, 
Metro blocked all of his accounts. Following this the bank decided to close his accounts and 
it wrote to him on 21 August 2015 to let him know his accounts would be closed within 7 
days. The letter also told Mr L that Metro would not be prepared to offer Mr L a new account. 
Banks should give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that means 60 
days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case, because 
Metro blocked Mr Ls accounts, I consider Metro closed Mr Ls accounts immediately. In my 
view that was reasonable, given the concerns the bank had about how Mr L was operating 
his account. Metro was entitled to close Mr Ls accounts and did so in line with the account terms and relevant regulations. So, whilst appreciate this caused Mr L inconvenience, I cant 
say Metro treated him unfairly when it decided to close his account in 2015. However, I note 
Metro didnt return Mr Ls balance to him at the time, which was 70p. So, I share the 
investigators assessment and think Metro should return this to Mr L now.
Mr L managed to open another account with Metro in September 2018. Metro bank emailed 
Mr L on 9 November 2018 to let him know it would be closing this account on 16 November 
2018. Metro also blocked the account, which meant Mr L couldnt use it. And no credits 
could be paid into the account. 
On 10 November 2018, Mr L rang Metro after two payments of £30 and £50, which was 
money hed arranged to borrow from a friend and his partner, had failed to credit his 
account. Ive listened to the call recording of Mr Ls conversation with Metro. He explained 
that he was relying on the money he was expecting to pay for petrol and care for his children 
and wasnt aware his account was blocked. And because he couldnt access the account, he 
was left without any money to pay for things needed by him and his family. In response, 
Metro told Mr L that the money had been returned to the sending banks. So, Mr L had to go 
to the trouble of contacting his friend and partner to try and track down the payments.
Ive also seen a copy of the email Metro sent to Mr L on 9 November 2018, which told Mr L 
his account would be closed on 16 November 2018. But the email didnt state Mr L wouldnt 
be able to use his account up until that time or accept payments. So, I can understand why 
Mr L was upset and angry when Metro told him the credits he was expecting wouldnt be 
applied to his account. I think Metro could have been clearer with Mr L about the operation of 
his account. And if it had given him clearer information, I dont think Mr L wouldve arranged 
for his friend and partner to pay money into an account he couldnt access. So, Im satisfied 
Mr L suffered inconvenience and I think Metro should pay Mr L £50 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Ls complaint. Metro Bank PLC should pay 
Mr L £50 compensation for not providing him with clear information about the closure of his 
account, return Mr Ls closing balance of £0.70 plus 8% simple from 11 August 2015 until 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman