DRN-3024786
The complaint
 Mr L is a sole trader. He complains that Ulster Bank Ltd (Ulster) declined his application 
for a business account which meant he was unable to apply for a Bounce Back Loan 
(BBL). 
What happened
 On 9 May 2020 Mr L applied online to Ulster for a business account so that in turn he could 
apply for a BBL. At the time of his application Mr L wasnt a customer of Ulster. 
After providing further information to support his application, on 16 June 2020 Ulster e-
mailed Mr L to say that his account had been opened. But this was wrong. Later, Ulster told 
Mr L that due to the volume of demand being experienced, they were only able to accept 
BBL applications from businesses that held business accounts with the bank on or before 4 
May 2020. They explained that because Mr Ls business account application was made 
outside of this timeframe it couldnt be accepted. 
Ulster also told Mr L that because his business was based in England, he wouldnt have 
been entitled to apply to Ulster for a BBL in any event. They said ring-fencing regulation was 
such that customers based in England were required to open accounts with one of the other 
banks within their banking group. In other words, Ulster accounts were reserved only for its 
Northern Irish business customers. On 26 June 2020 Mr L was told his application was 
declined. 
Although Mr L took out a personal loan with another bank, he said the loan was more 
expensive when compared to the BBL and there was no associated repayment holiday 
which the BBL provided. So, by way of redress Mr L wanted Ulster to offer him a loan on the 
same terms as the BBL, which he said he proposed using to repay the personal loan or 
alternatively a years worth of his personal loan repayments.  
Ulster didnt agree to do so. They said Mr Ls application never got to the BBL application 
stage because for that to happen he needed to hold a business account in advance. But 
they acknowledged that during his business account application they communicated with 
him poorly. In particular, they said they should have confirmed sooner than they did that his 
application had been declined. So, Ulster offered Mr L £200 as compensation. 
Mr L declined the banks offer and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. Although, she didnt believe Ulster had acted unfairly 
when they declined to open a new business account for Mr L, nonetheless she agreed with 
Ulster that they could have made Mr L aware sooner than they did of their decision to 
decline his application for the business account. She thought this had caused Mr L distress 
and inconvenience for which she concluded the bank needed to do more to compensate 
him. Taking everything into consideration the investigator recommended that Ulster should 
pay Mr L an additional £150 compensation on top of the £200 the bank already offered him.  
Ulster accepted the investigators conclusions. However, Mr L did not. He didnt think the 
combined total of £350 sufficiently compensated him for his losses and the distress and 
inconvenience for which he believed the bank was responsible. In support of his position Mr 
L made a number of points - which I summarise: 
Up until 26 June 2020 when he was told otherwise, hed been expecting to be 
granted an account and BBL since Ulster had led him to believe everything was in 
order and hed been accepted for the business account.
In view of Ulsters confirmation on 16 June 2020 that his business account 
application had been successful, his name would certainly have been placed on the 
Shared Industry Database for scrutiny by other lenders. On account of that 
information, any BBL application that he might have wished to make to another 
lender would have been cancelled automatically. So, in the period before 26 June 
2020 Ulster was culpable in preventing him from making such applications. 
After 26 June 2020, when he knew for sure his business account application had 
been declined, he did make further BBL applications to other lenders, although he 
cannot demonstrate that he did so. In any case, the applications were unsuccessful 
as he was unable to get past the requirement for a business or feeder account which 
was a standard requirement by those lenders. 
Despite the suggestion the BBL Scheme was available to him until 31 March 2021, 
strictly speaking that wasnt the case. Because of the time he had to wait for the 
Ulster to resolve his concerns and the fact that Covid had severely affected his 
businesss cash flow, he had to acquire funds urgently. In the circumstances, he was 
forced to accept a personal loan without the benefit of the 12-month repayment 
holiday which the BBL provided.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ulster accept they communicated poorly with Mr L in the course of his business account 
application. The application couldnt have progressed with Ulster given that it was made after 
4 May 2020 - the date the bank stopped accepting applications from new customers. And 
although Ulster acknowledge that applicants should have been told about this development 
around the time of the announcement, Mr L wasnt. In fact, the banks email dated 16 June 
2020 confirmed that an account had been opened for him which was wrong. And despite 
speaking to Mr L the following day, the bank still failed to accurately explain the position 
regarding his application. It was some 10 days later  on 26 June 2020  before the bank 
confirmed to Mr L that his application was no longer proceeding. Given, the assurances Mr L 
had received leading up to that confirmation understandably, Mr L would have been 
disappointed the bank took the decision to decline his application. 
To be clear, for the reasons given by the investigator I do not think that decision by the bank 
amounted to unfair treatment of Mr L. Ulster were under no obligation to grant a BBL to new 
customers such as Mr L. And, as it did, it was entitled to set the dates by which any such 
applications needed to be submitted and I dont think its requirements were unreasonable in 
the circumstances. 
What the bank did wrong in the circumstances of this case was the failure to communicate 
properly with Mr L. And in that respect, I am satisfied the bank did cause Mr L inconvenience. In particular, he was asked for additional information to progress his 
application, when all along it couldnt be progressed. And Mr L did have to chase the bank to 
find out what progress had been made on the application - including on 18 and 27 May 
2020. On occasions too, such as 16 and 17 June 2020, the actual position regarding the 
application wasnt reported accurately to him.  
Mr L doesnt think that the £350 compensation recommended by our investigator  and now 
offered by the bank - is enough. So, Ive considered what fair compensation would be in light 
of Mr Ls submissions to that effect. 
The key reasons Mr L believes a higher compensation is warranted are largely because he 
believes he couldnt take out a BBL with another provider because the consequence of the 
banks error  its 16 June confirmation hed been granted a business account for example 
meant his name was placed on the Shared Industry Database. But what is significant, it 
seems to me is that Ulster had made an error when they told Mr L that was the position. Mr L 
did not have a business account and he could not therefore proceed to the stage of applying 
for a BBL. He was not therefore in receipt of a BBL and did not have a pending application. 
So, there wouldnt have been any reason for his name to be included on the Shared Industry 
Database and Ive not seen anything that suggests otherwise. 
Mr L has told us that despite the BBL Scheme being available until March 2021, he was 
forced to take out a personal loan as a consequence of Ulsters actions. But the availability 
of the BBL Scheme did extend to the March date. And whilst I appreciate that because of 
cash flow pressures Mr L may have felt he had to take out a personal loan, its not obvious 
why he could not have persisted with applications to other BBL providers up to the cut-off 
date in March 2021. And I cant see that any applications he did make were unsuccessful as 
a result of anything related to the issues he experienced with Ulster. 
I turn finally to consider whether the investigators additional award when combined with the 
offer Ulster already made fairly compensates Mr L for the inconvenience he experienced. It 
took the bank six weeks approximately from Mr Ls application for the bank to make clear the 
true position regarding the application. And Ive noted above the inconvenience Mr L 
encountered as a result.  
 
Putting things right
 Taking all this into consideration, Im satisfied that £350 is fair and reasonable 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.   
My final decision
 My final decision is I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require Ulster Bank 
Ltd pay Mr L £350 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 Asher Gordon
Ombudsman