DRN-1853968
The complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to close his account when instructed, and about 
related issues.
What happened
Mr K had a number of accounts with Lloyds, including a current account with an arranged 
overdraft facility. In May 2018 he paid off his overdraft and asked for this account to be 
closed. It is not in dispute that he asked, and that Lloyds should have closed the account but 
failed to do so.
The account was not used for eleven months, and the balance remained at nil. In April 2019 
Mr K transferred £1,000 from that account to another Lloyds account which was in credit 
(£1,000 being the overdraft limit at the time). After that the account incurred daily overdraft 
fees which took the overdraft balance above the limit. In May 2019 the account was sent to 
collections, and since then it has been defaulted. Mr K complains that this would not have 
happened if his account had been closed when he asked, the year before. He also 
complains that the bank did not do enough to tell him that the account would be defaulted, 
and that it should have phoned him instead of writing to him, due to his mental health issues 
and also being partially-sighted.
Lloyds apologised for not closing the account when instructed, and paid Mr K £50 for that 
error. But it did not accept that it had been wrong to default the account. It had sent Mr K 
letters and a formal demand, and had also sent text messages to his phone asking him to 
get in touch. Being dissatisfied with that response, Mr K complained to our Service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She thought £50 was fair compensation for 
the banks error in not closing the account in 2018, and she did not agree that Lloyds had 
made any other errors. She said that Mr K had known his account was open when he 
transferred money out of it in 2019, and instead he could have asked Lloyds to close the 
account if he hadnt wanted it. It therefore had not been unfair of Lloyds to pursue the debt, 
and there was no record of Mr K having previously told Lloyds that he only wanted to be 
contacted by phone.
Mr K did not accept that opinion, and so he asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The failure to close the account in 2018 does not appear to have adversely affected Mr K in 
any way up until the day he transferred money from the account in 2019. His decision to 
transfer the money does not appear to have been made in ignorance of which account he 
was transferring the money from. It was therefore his choice to use the account, instead of 
pointing out the banks failure to close it and repeating his instructions to close it. For these 
reasons, I am satisfied that £50 is fair compensation for that mistake, and I will not require 
Lloyds to do more about that.
There is no suggestion that the overdraft fees which were subsequently charged were not 
charged in line with the accounts terms and conditions. The only criticism which is made of 
the fees is Mr Ks argument that there would have been no overdraft but for the banks 
failure to close the account when he asked it to. I have already explained why I do not 
accept that argument, and so I do not think the fees were improperly charged. Lloyds was 
therefore entitled to require him to pay the fees, and to repay the overdraft balance.
I have seen the formal demand which was sent to Mr K, and two other letters which were 
sent to him by the collections department, in June and July 2019. They are correctly 
addressed, and if he did not read them then that was his choice. There is no evidence that 
he had earlier asked the bank to phone him instead of writing to him, and so the question of 
whether the bank should have made reasonable adjustments does not arise. I have also 
seen a selection of the text messages which Lloyds sent to Mr Ks phone. They are short 
and clear, and they asked him to phone the bank and gave the number, so its not as though 
Lloyds was unwilling to speak on the phone.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021. But if we do not hear from him then we will 
presume that he rejects it.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman