DRN-2976395
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that TSB Bank plc have been applying interest and charges to her 
account since it stopped posting statements to her correct address in November 2018. 
Miss S is also unhappy that her TSB account wasnt closed when she asked for it to be 
closed in May 2019.  
What happened
TSB stopped sending account statements to Miss Ss address in November 2018. Miss S 
didnt think that interest or charges should accrue on her account following that time, and so 
she disregarded any information received from TSB advising of such interest and charges 
and made payments to clear the balance on her account minus these later charges which 
she continued to dispute.
TSB felt that the interest and charges that accrued on the account remained valid and 
continued to pursue Miss S for repayment. Miss S wasnt happy about this, so she raised a 
complaint. TSB looked at Miss Ss complaint but continued to maintain that the outstanding 
balance on Miss Ss account was valid, and so didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Miss S wasnt satisfied with TSBs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that the outstanding 
balance as calculated by TSB was valid, so they didnt uphold this aspect of Miss Ss 
complaint. However, our investigator noted that TSB hadnt closed the account for further 
use when Miss S had first requested it, so they recommended that this complaint be upheld 
in Miss Ss favour on that basis only, and that TSB should make a payment of £50 to Miss S 
to compensate her for any inconvenience incurred. 
Miss S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The events being complained about here follow the culmination of a previous complaint 
made by Miss S. This previous complaint concerned TSB not sending statements to Miss S 
from November 2018 onwards, and was referred by Miss S to this service and ended with a 
final decision being issued by an ombudsman. 
As such, given that a final decision represents the end of this services process, I will not be 
considering any aspects of this current complaint that have already been addressed in the 
prior final decision, and I will consider the findings of that prior decision to be fair and correct, 
regardless of whether Miss S agrees with the outcome of that prior decision or not.
The outcome of the prior decision was that the ombudsman upheld Miss Ss complaint and 
instructed TSB to make a payment of compensation to Miss S as well as to remove any 
relevant adverse reporting on Miss Ss credit file up to that time. And I can see that TSB 
followed the instructions of the prior decision and that there are no late payments recorded 
on Miss Ss credit file prior to the issuance of that earlier decision.
Of importance here is that the prior decision didnt include an instruction for TSB to 
reimburse the interest and charges accrued on Miss Ss account for the period that she 
wasnt receiving statements, and given this fact Im satisfied that the interest and charges 
that accrued on Miss Ss account during this period  and for which TSB subsequently 
pursued Miss S for payment  were, and remain, valid. 
Im aware that Miss S doesnt agree with this aspect of the prior decision and Miss S has 
stated to this service that she continues to consider the outstanding balance on the account 
to be invalid and that she will not be making any payments towards it. 
But Im satisfied, as explained above, that the outstanding balance on the account is valid, 
and so Im further satisfied that TSB havent acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss S 
either by continuing to pursue Miss S for that outstanding balance or in reporting adverse 
information on Miss Ss credit file when Miss S didnt make arrangements to repay that 
balance following the issuance of the previous decision. And it follows from this that I wont 
be upholding this aspect of Miss Ss complaint.
However, I do concur with our investigators assessment of Miss Ss complaint as it relates 
to TSB not closing Miss Ss account for further use, when Miss S first asked for this to be 
done. And, while it may have been the case that Miss S was stating that there was no valid 
balance on the account and that the payments that she had chosen to make had brought the 
actual balance of the account to zero, while I do not accept the premise of Miss Ss 
conjecture here, I do feel that TSS should have closed the account for further use at that 
time  albeit while being free to continue to pursue Miss S for the balance that remained on 
the account.
As such, Ill be upholding this complaint against TSB on this limited basis only and 
instructing TSB to make a payment of £50 to Miss S to compensate her for any upset or 
inconvenience this matter may have caused. 
Given that Miss S has stated that she has no intention of repaying the balance owed on the 
account, which as explained Im satisfied is a valid outstanding balance, TSB may, if they 
wish, apply this £50 payment to reduce the balance owing on Miss Ss account.  
Putting things right
TSB must make a payment of £50 to Miss, which may be applied to reduce the balance 
owing on Miss Ss account.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc on the basis explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman