DRN-4238635
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the customer service he received from Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited (HLAM) in connection with a transfer to his SIPP (self invested 
personal pension) with HLAM.
What happened
Mr Ks complaint has been investigated by one of our investigators. In her view she set out, 
in some detail, what had happened and which had led to Mr K making two complaints to 
HLAM. Im not going to repeat everything here. 
But, very briefly, Mr K has a Drawdown SIPP with HLAM. In August 2022 he was looking to 
transfer the value of a pension he had with another provider into his SIPP. Mr K requested 
an application pack from HLAM via the website. When it didnt arrive and Mr K chased it up, 
he was told hed need to complete a risk questionnaire. Mr K queried that but HLAM 
maintained it was necessary. There were problems getting the risk questionnaire to Mr K 
and back to HLAM by post. In the end Mr K completed it over the telephone on 24 November 
2022. The application pack was then sent. HLAM received it back on 28 November 2022. 
HLAM then emailed Mr K on 30 November 2022 saying that identification documents were 
required. That led to Mr Ks first complaint made on 1 December 2022.
In its final response dated 30 December 2022 HLAM apologised for the poor customer 
service Mr K had received and paid £200 into Mr Ks Loyalty Bonus Account for the distress 
and inconvenience hed suffered. But HLAM didnt agree they were liable for any investment 
loss as theyd followed their usual procedure, including completing the risk questionnaire 
and, if necessary, requesting verification documents. 
HLAM sent several reminders about the verification documents. But, during a call on 14 
February 2023 about using funds in Mr Ks Fund & Share Account to make a Bed and ISA 
transfer, HLAM didnt make Mr K aware that restrictions had been placed on his account, 
pending receipt of the documents. And so it wasnt possible for him to undertake the 
transaction. Mr K later complained hed been given incorrect information and about the 
service hed received generally, including the need to provide verification documents. 
HLAM received the verification documents on 22 February 2023. HLAM started the transfer 
process to the SIPP on 24 February 2023 and it was completed on 30 March 2023. 
 
HLAM sent their final response to Mr Ks further complaint on 21 March 2023. HLAM said 
that, in some instances, they may require additional documentation from customers to 
complete their processes. They didnt think theyd acted in error by requesting verification 
documents from Mr K. HLAM acknowledged that during the call Mr K hadnt been made 
aware that restrictions had been placed on his account pending receipt of the documents. 
The reinvestment in Mr Ks ISA was delayed but he hadnt suffered any financial loss, 
looking at the price hed paid on 27 February 2023 and the price on 22 February 2023. 
HLAM had paid £150 to Mr Ks Loyalty Bonus Account for any inconvenience caused by 
their (poor) service during the call on 14 February 2023.
Mr K referred his complaint to us and it was considered by one of our investigators. In 
summary her main findings were: 
Mr K had requested the application pack via HLAMs website which didnt indicate a 
risk questionnaire would be needed. But HLAM had explained that it considered one 
was necessary to meet the regulators requirements. It wasnt up to this service to tell 
HLAM how to operate its business. When HLAM didnt receive Mr Ks completed risk 
questionnaire by post they didnt contact Mr K. Although it was frustrating for Mr K to 
have to get in touch with HLAM for updates, delays or issues with the postal service 
were outside of HLAMs control. HLAM had said the risk questionnaire could be 
completed over the phone so Mr K was aware there was an alternative option. HLAM 
didnt chase customers for the completed risk questionnaire but HLAM had noted Mr 
Ks feedback about that.
HLAM had acknowledged Mr K had received poor service and had paid £200 into his 
Loyalty Bonus Account. The investigator was satisfied HLAM had tried to call Mr K 
back following his query on 25 August 2022 about the risk questionnaire and had left 
a voicemail. HLAM hadnt attempted to call again or send a secure message so Mr K 
had to contact HLAM for an update which wouldve been inconvenient for him. HLAM 
agreed that during the call on 21 November 2022 a better level of customer service 
couldve been provided. Approval was needed from a manager about sending the 
application via email. But a call back was promised which didnt seem to have 
happened. The compensation awarded was fair and reasonable for the customer 
service errors and the distress and inconvenience caused. 
HLAM had acted in line with the terms and conditions in requesting further 
identification documentation. HLAM had contacted Mr K for the outstanding 
verification documents on 5 and 26 January and 17 February 2023. The documents 
were received on 22 February 2023 and the transfer completed on 30 March 2023 
which was within HLAMs eight week processing timeframe. A further £150 had been 
paid because during the call on 14 February 2023 the call handler neglected to 
remind Mr K about the outstanding verification documentation. Mr K hadnt suffered 
any financial loss as a result of the delay incurred. 
The compensation, in total £350, had been paid into Mr Ks Loyalty Bonus Account. 
Mr K could withdraw that money to his nominated bank account. So he could access 
those funds as he wished. The compensation paid was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and given the impact on Mr K. Although hed said HLAM hadnt 
properly investigated his complaint, we couldnt investigate a concern solely about 
complaint handling.
Mr K didnt agree and made a number of points which he wanted the ombudsman to 
consider. These centred on four areas: the telephone number on which HLAM said it had left 
a voicemail following his call to HLAM on 25 August 2022; why hed been asked to verify his 
address in 2022; what had happened with the compensation payment of £350; and whether 
hed had suffered any investment loss due to the delay in completing the transfer to the 
SIPP. On the last issue, Mr K said the fund value with the other provider on 23 November 
2022 was £23,720.82. But, by the time the funds were transferred to HLAM, some four 
months later, the value was £23,435.06, a loss of £285.76. And that didnt include any loss 
for the period prior to 23 November 2022. Mr K said it wasnt reasonable for HLAM, having 
received his written application to transfer on 28 November 2022, to have then taken four 
months to complete it. He was seeking a total amount of £635.76 (so a financial loss of 
£285.76 plus a further £350) which didnt include any additional compensation for his time 
and effort in bringing the complaint to this service. He wanted the compensation paid into his 
nominated bank account and not his Loyalty Bonus Account. 
The investigator considered Mr Ks comments. But she wasnt persuaded to change her 
view. In summary she said: HLAM had confirmed the telephone number used which the investigator set out.
Mr K had changed his address in 2018 and had said that at the time hed provided 
sufficient evidence of that. But HLAMs terms and conditions said that, in submitting 
his application, Mr K was agreeing that HLAM could, at any time during their 
relationship with Mr K, use a third party electronic verification company to confirm his 
address. So, in requesting further information, HLAM was acting in line with their 
terms and conditions. It was up to HLAM if further information was needed to satisfy 
Anti Money Laundering (AML) requirements. 
HLAM had confirmed a £200 credit to Mr Ks Loyalty Bonus Account on 30 
December 2022 and a further £150 credit on 21 March 2023. The investigator hadnt 
said the money had been paid into Mr Ks bank account. But she was satisfied he 
was able to access the money however he wished. 
She didnt agree the transfer first commenced in August 2022. For a transfer to be 
initiated HLAM required a completed application form. That had been sent to Mr K on 
24 November 2022, after hed completed the risk questionnaire on the same date. 
HLAM received Mr Ks application on 28 November 2022. But the AML check had 
failed and so HLAM had to contact Mr K on 30 November 2022 for the required 
documentation. Although HLAM had only received the required verification 
documents on 22 February 2023, HLAM had sent several chasers to Mr K. The 
transfer was set up on 24 February 2023 and completed on 30 March 2023, within 
HLAMs eight week time frame. 
Because the call handler had omitted to make Mr K aware of the outstanding AML 
requirement during the call on 14 February 2023, HLAM acknowledged the 
reinvestment in Mr Ks ISA was delayed. The earliest Mr K couldve reinvested was 
22 February 2023 but hed paid less when hed actually invested on 27 February 
2023 so he hadnt suffered a financial loss. 
The investigator told Mr K and HLAM that the matter would be referred to an ombudsman 
and asked for any further comments. Mr K responded that his letter had been marked for the 
attention of the ombudsman. He requested copies of the investigators exchanges with 
HLAM and the email address for the ombudsman whod be considering the complaint. 
The investigator confirmed wed forward copies of our correspondence with HLAM and that 
the complaint had been placed in the queue for a decision by an ombudsman. She explained 
that we wouldnt normally provide the ombudsmans email address and shed remain the 
main point of contact. We shared the information which HLAM had provided to us and asked 
Mr K if he wanted to comment further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings and the reasons she gave as to why 
she considered the £350 paid by HLAM was fair and reasonable. I can see Mr K feels very 
strongly about whats happened. I agree that in some respects HLAMs service was lacking. 
But I think the sum paid is fair and reasonable and in line with what wed award for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr K has suffered as a result of HLAMs service failings.  
Mr K was unhappy that the investigator responded to Mr Ks comments about the 
investigators view when Mr K had asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman. 
But thats in accordance with our usual procedure  the investigator will usually try to deal 
with any points raised in response to their view, even though the complaint will be referred to 
an ombudsman. The ombudsman will then consider the complaint afresh before coming to their own conclusions which may or may not be the same as the investigators. Generally 
speaking the ombudsman will reach their decision based on the written evidence thats been 
provided, including what the parties have said about the matter. Im satisfied that in this case 
I can reach a fair decision based on what Ive seen. 
Essentially Mr Ks position is that the transfer took too long. Mr K says seven months isnt 
reasonable and the delay was entirely due to HLAMs poor handling of the matter from start 
to finish. I can see why the investigator said the transfer only started when HLAM received 
Mr Ks completed application form which wasnt until 28 November 2022. But, from Mr Ks 
perspective, he started the process in August 2022. Ive looked at if HLAM delayed things at 
any stage, whether before or after HLAM actually received Mr Ks application.  
Things got off to a slow start. Mr K requested an application pack but it then transpired hed 
need to complete a risk questionnaire, which wasnt something hed been expecting. 
According to Mr K the website didnt mention it and it seems it was only when he chased up 
the application pack that he found out that a risk questionnaire was required. I dont know 
exactly what HLAMs website said (and the current version may be different to what Mr K 
saw a year or so ago) but some clear reference to a risk questionnaire being required would 
probably be helpful if not currently clearly set out.  
HLAM told Mr K during the call on 25 August 2022 that hed need to complete a risk 
questionnaire. Mr K didnt agree and asked that someone call him back about it. From what 
Ive seen, HLAM did that the same day and left a message for Mr K. Unfortunately it seems 
that for some reason he didnt get it. Im not sure why. But, in any event, in its final response 
letter dated 30 December 2022, HLAM apologised for failing to contact Mr K again after 
being unable to reach him on 25 August 2022. So HLAM accepts that it shouldve tried 
again. HLAM did however send secure messages to Mr K on 12 and 29 September 2022 
about why a risk questionnaire was required. And a risk questionnaire was sent to Mr K on 4 
October 2022.  
Unfortunately it seems there were postal difficulties. As the investigator said, HLAM cant be 
held responsible for issues with the postal service. I know Mr K is critical of HLAMs reliance 
on postal communications but HLAM gave Mr K the option of completing the risk 
questionnaire over the telephone which in the end Mr K did and which meant the application 
form could then be sent to him. HLAM has also explained that some providers require a wet 
signature and so a paper based, rather than an electronic application process, may be 
preferred.  
Once the application had been received, the need for verification documents was then 
identified. I can understand why Mr K might have been surprised, having produced evidence 
in 2018 of his change of address then and his contact details having been updated, to be 
asked for information again. Especially as I think hed been through a similar process in 
2022. I note here Mr Ks request for details of the relevant AML rules which say checks are 
to be carried out every two or three months. But the AML requirements arent prescriptive 
and take a risk based approach. From what HLAM has said, checks arent always performed 
immediately after a customer has updated their address but on an ongoing basis or when an 
application is received. And thats consistent with the account terms and conditions. I dont 
think HLAM acted unfairly by requesting the verification details. HLAM didnt receive the 
necessary documentation until 22 February 2023, despite reminders being sent.
Overall there were some delays on HLAMs part. For example, in not following up after not 
being able to speak to Mr K on 25 August 2022. But some of the time taken wasnt down to 
HLAM, such as the postal difficulties. And, although I can understand that Mr K may have 
had questions and wanted to understand why HLAM had certain requirements, dealing with 
Mr Ks queries added time to the process. As I cant say that HLAMs requirements were unreasonable, it follows I cant hold HLAM responsible for the time involved. And there 
appears to have been some delay on Mr Ks part in providing the verification documentation 
once it became clear that HLAM was insisting on it.  So I dont agree with Mr K that all of the 
time taken was due to HLAMs poor handling of the matter.
  
Further and in any event I dont agree that the delay must mean Mr K has suffered a 
financial loss. Mr Ks claim is based on the difference in the fund value on 23 November 
2022 and the transfer value actually paid some four months later which was £285.76 less. 
But, for most of that four month period, Mr K will have remained invested with his existing 
provider. My understanding is that the transfer process wasnt actually initiated until 24 
February 2023 after Mr K had provided the verification documentation. The transfer was then 
completed on 30 March 2023 which was within HLAMs eight week service level. Even if 
there was a difference in values such that the fund value on 24 February 2023 was higher 
than the transfer value, I dont think that would be HLAMs fault. A transfer (aside from an in 
specie transfer) will involve converting assets to cash and then reinvesting with the new 
provider and will mean time out of the market which may result in a loss.
 
Mr K is seeking a further £350 for distress and inconvenience but I think the £350 already 
paid is fair and reasonable and in line with what wed award. Mr K has suffered 
inconvenience, including time spent chasing up HLAM when they didnt always get back to 
him as promised. There were other service failings too, such as poor customer service 
during the calls on 21 November 2022 and 14 February 2023. The transfer process has 
been stressful and time consuming for Mr K and has taken much longer than hed have 
liked. But I think the £350 is appropriate compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
hes suffered due to HLAMs service failings. 
Mr K is unhappy that compensation was paid to his Loyalty Bonus Account rather than direct 
to his bank account. But from what Ive seen Mr K can access the £350 including, if he 
wishes, paying it into his bank account. So I dont think hes been penalised by the fact that a 
direct credit to his bank account wasnt made.
My final decision
Hargreaves Asset Management Limited has already paid £350 to settle this complaint. I 
think thats fair in all the circumstances and no further action is required. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023. 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman