DRN-3734761
Complaint
Miss K has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Miss K with a loan for £1,000.00 in July 2021. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of just over £100. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss K and Everyday Loans had told us. And she 
thought that Everyday Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss K unfairly. So she 
didnt recommend that Miss Ks complaint be upheld. Miss K disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ks complaint.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss K could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what 
we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Everyday Loans says it agreed to Miss Ks application after she provided details of her 
monthly income and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this 
against information on a credit search it carried out and copies of bank statements that it 
obtained. In its view all of this information showed Miss K could afford to comfortably make 
the repayments she was committing to. 
On the other hand, Miss K has said she should never have been provided with this loan 
because of her existing financial position.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss K and Everyday Loans have said. The first thing for 
me to say is that Everyday Loans carried out a credit check on Miss K and obtained bank 
statements from her. So I dont think that this was a case of Everyday Loans simply 
accepting an over-optimistic declaration of monthly disposable income at face value. 
Everyday Loans credit search does show that Miss K had had previous difficulties with 
credit and debts that had been passed to debt collectors. But even when all of the outgoings 
on Miss Ks bank statements, including the payments to debt collectors, are factored in, it 
looks like she had enough left over to make the payments to this loan. 
Equally, as this was Miss Ks first loan with Everyday Loans, Im satisfied that it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on what it had been provided with. There wasnt anything obvious 
in the information gathered during this application which leads me to think that even further 
checks would have been reasonable and proportionate here.
I accept that Miss Ks actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information Everyday Loans obtained. But the key here is 
that Everyday Loans was providing a loan for a relatively small sum  with a low monthly 
payment too. Its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances 
where a lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious 
inconsistencies, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Everyday Loans to lend here. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Everyday Loans did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Miss K - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found 
out which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Everyday Loans treated Miss K unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with her loan. And Im not upholding Miss Ks complaint. I appreciate this will 
be very disappointing for Miss K. But I hope that shell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like remind Everyday Loans of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration should it intend to collect on the outstanding 
balance on Miss Ks loan and it be the case that she is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman