DRN-2950601
The complaint
Company A is unhappy with how National Westminster Bank Plc dealt with a request to stop 
two cheques.
Company A, a firm of solicitors, is being represented in this complaint by Mr N, the principal 
of Company A.
What happened
On 27 June 2018, Company A issued two cheques totalling £15,000  one for £14,311 and 
the other for £689  for compensation in a Housing Disrepair Claim, to the two claimants. 
But the recipient of the £689 cheque (Mr O) raised a disagreement about the share of the 
£15,000 he was receiving. So, on 28 June 2018, Company A asked NatWest to stop both 
cheques. NatWest charged them £20 for doing this - £10 for each cheque.
But NatWest failed to stop both cheques. And, on 21 May 2019, Mr O issued a court claim 
against both Company A and Mr N, seeking a £7,500 share of the £15,000. The claim was 
dismissed on 12 March 2020, but Mr O has appealed the dismissal. As far as Im aware, this 
appeal is still being considered by the courts.
Company A complained to NatWest that theyd failed to stop both cheques. While the £689 
cheque was never cashed, the £14,311 cheque was cashed on 2 July 2018. And Company 
A said that it cost them £13,537.50 to defend the claim made by Mr O. So they thought that 
NatWest should compensate them for this amount.
NatWest apologised for not stopping the cheques but didnt think they were responsible for 
the costs to Company A in defending the claims. NatWest offered Company A £1,000 
compensation for their error. They also refunded the £10 charge for one of the cheques. But 
Company A werent happy with this offer and brought their complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator explained that we couldnt comment on the ongoing court case brought by 
Mr O. But because Mr O wasnt happy with the share of the £15,000 he was receiving, the 
investigator thought it was more likely than not that Mr O would always have taken court 
action. And if NatWest had stopped both cheques it wouldnt have altered this. So he didnt 
think that NatWest were responsible for Company As costs in defending the claim.
The investigator also said that, although the £14,311 cheque was cashed, the £689 cheque 
wasnt. So the smaller cheque was stopped. Because of this, he didnt think NatWest 
needed to refund the £10 fee relating to the stopping of the £689 cheque. And he didnt think 
NatWest needed to do anything more.
Company A didnt agree with the investigator. They said that the £15,000 was passed to 
them by another firm of solicitors and it was our responsibility to keep the money and to 
share it in the ratio that may be agreed by both parties. Company A feel that, because Mr O 
objected to the share of the money they were receiving, NatWests failure to stop the cheque 
meant Company A werent able to fulfil their responsibility  something they couldve done if 
neither cheque had been cashed. 
Company A have also said that Mr O only started court proceedings because the whole of 
the £15,000 was no longer in their care. And if hed taken the matter to court to decide what 
share he was entitled to, then Company A wouldve been able to charge their fees to their 
client. But, because of NatWests mistake they couldnt bill their costs, and they had to report 
this matter to their regulator and to their insurers. So they believe that NatWest should cover 
their costs.
Because Company A didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Company A. I dont doubt 
they wanted the cheques theyd issued to be stopped, so I can understand their frustration 
that this didnt happen. But for me to say that NatWest are responsible for Company As 
costs in defending the claim, Id need to be satisfied that no claim wouldve been made if the 
cheques were stopped. And in this situation, I dont think this wouldve been the case.
Company A have said they were instructed not to distribute the £15,000 until they had 
agreement from both parties. But its clear that no agreement was in place because Mr O 
disputed the amount hed received. So, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that 
Company A made an initial error by issuing the cheques.
It's not disputed that NatWest were asked to stop the cheques, and that they didnt, allowing 
the £14,311 cheque to be cashed. And Im unaware of what action Company A took, if any, 
to recover this money from the recipient once Mr O disputed the distribution. But I dont 
consider that this has any bearing in this complaint.
Company A have said that, if the cheques hadnt been issued, and if no agreement couldve 
been reached, then Mr O wouldve had no option but to take the matter to court and ask the 
court to decide on a fair distribution. Company A have also said that, if he did this, then their 
costs in defending this action wouldve been able to be billed to their client. 
While I dont doubt what Company A are saying, I havent anything that shows me that 
Company As fees for defending such a claim wouldve been paid by their client. And its 
likely that, if Mr O lost the claim, Company A wouldve asked the courts to order Mr O to pay 
their costs. By initially dismissing Mr Os claim for an equal distribution, in essence Mr O lost 
the case. And Ive seen Company A have submitted their costs to court for consideration. 
Also, by the courts dismissing the initial claim, they were in essence agreeing with the 
distribution made by Company A in June 2018. So, while I understand this matter is still 
awaiting the outcome of the appeal, NatWests error in not stopping the cheque meant that 
the recipient of the £14,311 received the money earlier that they otherwise might have done. 
And Company As costs are still being considered by the courts.This isnt to say that NatWest didnt provide a poor service  by not stopping the cheque as 
requested, they did. But NatWest have also refunded the stopped cheque fee and offered 
Company A £1,000 for the inconvenience this cased. I think that this offer was reasonable in 
the circumstances, and I wont be asking NatWest to pay anything more. Its now for 
Company A to decide whether or not to accept this offer.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Company As complaint about National 
Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman