DRN-2421929
The complaint
Mr J complains about the valuation Tradex Insurance Company Limited placed on his car 
under his commercial motor insurance policy. Hes also unhappy with how it handled the 
claim.
What happened
Mr Js car was stolen, and he made a claim. Tradex investigated the claim and offered him 
£5,760, less the policy excess, as the pre-loss trade value for his car. But Mr J was unhappy 
with this and how the claim was investigated. He said it made him feel anxious and like a 
criminal. Tradex increased its valuation to £8,000. But Mr J didnt respond to this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Tradexs 
valuation and settlement offer was fair and reasonable. He thought Tradex had taken some 
time to investigate the claim, but he also thought this was fair and reasonable for it to 
validate the claim. He thought Mr J had been warned that his calls would be recorded and 
analysed. 
Mr J replied that due to the duration of the claim he had no option but to renew his policy 
with Tradex. He said its investigator hadnt told him he would be using a lie detector. He said 
hed insured the car for £15,000 but was only being offered the trade value. He said he 
hadnt received Tradexs further offer. He thought his car was worth up to £16,500 because 
of its rare colour. He said hed been wrongly told that his car had been found.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr J wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. Making a claim and 
complaints can be a stressful process. I was sorry to hear that this has affected Mr Js 
health. Mr J has raised several complaint points and Ive considered all his submissions and 
concerns. But I think these fall into two groups, the claim settlement and the level of service 
provided by Tradex in handling his claim. And so Ill concentrate on those.
Our investigator thought that Tradexs increased offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive 
checked how he came to this conclusion. The investigator has explained this services 
approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars but look to whether the 
insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
I can see that Mr Js policy provides for the market value of his car in the case of total loss. 
Some policies Ive seen have an agreed value where the insurer and the consumer agree 
the actual value of the car. But this isnt the case with Mr Js policy. I can see that Mr J 
valued his car higher, but I think Tradex is only required to pay its market value in the case 
of its loss. And I can see that in Mr Js policy, the market value is for the trade price of the 
car at the time of its loss, minus the policy excess. 
Our investigator found valuations for Mr Js car in three of the trade guides we use. I can see 
that he looked for the correct make, model, age, mileage, condition and colour. The trade 
values ranged between £5,760 and £8,660. Tradexs offer of £8,000 fell within this range. So 
I think it was fair and reasonable and in keeping with our approach. I dont require it to 
increase this.
Mr J provided us with ads for similar cars to his own. But we dont find advertisements 
particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent selling prices. Its for 
this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of likely retail selling 
prices. 
Mr J also provided evidence of the maintenance to his car. But we think this is done to keep 
a car roadworthy. And we dont consider that maintenance would add to a cars value. 
Mr J said hed hadnt received Tradexs increased offer. But I can see that Tradex called him 
and left a message for him to call back. It also told Mr J in its response to his complaint that 
it would increase its offer and he should call it. 
Mr J said hed called but couldnt get through. I can understand that this must have been 
frustrating. And I can see that there were other times that Mr J couldnt get through to the 
claims team and his calls werent returned. But I dont think this caused sufficient 
inconvenience to warrant any compensation.
Mr J said hed been wrongly informed by Tradex that his car had been found. He said he 
then called the police who told him that if it was found then he would be called first. 
I dont doubt what Mr J has told us. From Tradexs file, I can see that it did receive a call 
from the police saying that the car had been found. It tried to follow this up with the police, 
without success. I cant identify who called Mr J. But this occurred after he brought his 
complaint to us and after Tradex had made its settlement offer. And so I think he needs to 
raise any concerns about this with Tradex first to give it a chance to respond. 
Mr J thought Tradexs investigator hadnt warned him that his calls would be recorded and 
analysed. But I think its most likely that the investigator would have explained the 
requirements under data protection legislation. And I cant see that Mr J was treated 
differently to other consumers. So I cant say that Tradex did anything wrong in this. 
I agree that it took Tradex some time to investigate Mr Js claim. But I dont think this is 
unusual in theft claims. I think its reasonable for an insurer to appoint investigators and 
validate a claim. So I cant say that this was unfair to Mr J. I think it was Mr Js decision to 
renew his policy with Tradex whilst his claim was being investigated. 
Mr J said he hadnt cashed Tradexs first cheque in interim payment of his claim. Tradex said 
Mr J should contact it to discuss the increased settlement and a new cheque will be issued. I 
expect it to honour this offer.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman