DRN-4371760
The complaint
Mr W complains that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) mis-sold him a Free Standing Additional 
Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan, causing him losses. He would like compensation for 
the losses.
What happened
Mr W worked for the Ministry of Defence. He says around 32 years ago he was approached 
by a Phoenix adviser about financial planning and his pension arrangements were 
discussed. The adviser recommended he take out the FSAVC to supplement his employers 
pension scheme as it was better to have a spread of investments. Mr W says he was 
advised to pay contributions for one year and then to take out a second FSAVC the next 
year. He says it was only many years later having met with former colleagues that he 
realised he may have been poorly advised to take out the FSAVCs. Mr W complained to 
Phoenix. It said it would look into it and needed information from his employers scheme and 
that it would contact the Armed Forces Pension Scheme (AFPS). As Mr W didnt hear any 
further, he referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator contacted Phoenix and asked for its file. Despite reminders over many 
months Phoenix didnt respond. So, she upheld Mr Ws complaint based on the information 
hed provided.
Our investigator said it wasnt clear whether it was Phoenix or an independent financial 
adviser (IFA) that recommended the plan. She said IFAs had to compare any in-house 
alternatives to the FSAVC and recommend the most suitable option. Whereas an adviser 
from Phoenix could only recommend its plans but was required to tell Mr W about the in-
house alternatives, so he could make his own enquiries. She said if it hadnt done this, the 
plan had been mis-sold. And it was likely that the FSAVC had higher charges than the in-
house AVC arrangement the employer would have offered. And, based on Mr Ws evidence 
she thought he would have chosen the more cost-effective in-house option if he had been 
told about it.
Our investigator said Phoenix should undertake calculations to compare the charges as set 
out by the regulator and pay Mr W compensation if this showed a loss. 
Mr W accepted our investigators view. 
But Phoenix didnt respond. So, it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding the complaint.
When the complaint came to me, there was still no update from Phoenix. As it wasnt clear 
whether it had advised Mr W to take the plan out, I thought it was reasonable to contact 
Phoenix to see if it had anything to add and to try and progress matters for Mr W. Because, if 
I upheld the complaint and told Phoenix to liaise with Mr W and undertake calculations and it 
subsequently said it hadnt advised on the plan or there were other issues this would present 
difficulties.
Phoenix said it would put together a file, but that it had upheld the complaint and had 
confirmed this to Mr W. It said it still needed information from him to enable it to contact the 
AFPS and undertake loss calculations and had been waiting for Mr W to provide this. 
This was around eleven months after it had told Mr W it was contacting the pension scheme. 
Mr W said hed already provided this information. But we forwarded this to Phoenix and 
continued to ask for updates. It said the AFPS often took a long time to respond to queries. 
Mr W then provided a photograph of a payslip from his pension scheme. This was from the 
Civil Service rather than the AFPS, we sent this to Phoenix and requested updates. 
I queried the Civil Service payslip and Mr W confirmed this was from the pension 
arrangement in question. I made enquiries with both the Civil Service and AFPS to clarify if 
there was any misunderstanding. Having done so, it seemed likely Phoenix was contacting 
the wrong pension scheme. We asked it to clarify the matter. In reply it sent a copy of the 
letter it had sent to the AFPS in May 2023. It said wanted further information from Mr W, 
which we requested from him and provided. 
I asked Phoenix for updates and whether it had clarified which pension scheme was 
involved. It replied saying it had contacted the AFPS, and as previously advised, response 
times could be long. I said I remained concerned it wasnt contacting the right pension 
scheme. Despite reminders and telephone calls it hasnt responded further. 
This is clearly highly unsatisfactory, and I think Mr W has been caused considerable 
inconvenience by these delays, as he has now been waiting around 18 months for Phoenix 
to progress his complaint. Throughout this time Mr W has expressed his frustration about the 
delays and lack of engagement from Phoenix. Unfortunately, I cant consider complaints 
about how a complaint has been handled, as that itself is not a regulated activity. But I 
certainly think that Phoenix should carefully consider the impact these delays have had on 
Mr W. 
As Phoenix is unwilling to confirm the current situation but has accepted it did advise Mr W 
to take out one or more FSAVC plans, Ive decided to uphold the complaint and issue this 
final decision in the expectation that this will force it into some proper action.  
There has only been Mr Ws evidence for me to consider. He says he was advised the 
FSAVC was the best thing to do, and he wasnt told about the in-house alternatives likely to 
be available to him. As there is no evidence to the contrary that means the plan or plans 
were mis-sold. It is likely that the in-house AVC had lower charges than the FSAVC and this 
could have resulted in losses for Mr W. So, Phoenix must undertake a comparison of 
charges to establish whether a loss has been suffered and if so, compensation should be 
paid. 
Putting things right
My aim in awarding compensation is to put Mr W back in the position he would have been in 
but for the poor advice.
If Mr W had more than one FSAVC plan with Phoenix, it must consider all his FSAVC plans 
with it in undertaking these calculations.Phoenix must undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005. 
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So, where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Phoenix should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement, 
expected to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
Phoenix must undertake these calculations urgently. It should contact Mr W within seven 
days of our service confirming he accepts my final decision, with a substantive update of its 
progress and a firm action plan to complete the calculations. 
If the calculations show a loss, Phoenix must add interest at 8% per year simple to the loss 
from the date of the calculation until the date it makes settlement to Mr W. 
If Phoenix considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a certificate 
showing this if Mr W asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Provide Mr W with a simple calculation of how it arrived at the final figures.
Mr Ws retirement plans have been disrupted and delayed due to Phoenixs poor advice, 
causing him distress and inconvenience. It must pay him £250 compensation in respect of 
this. It must pay this compensation within 14 days of our service telling it Mr W has accepted 
my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must add interest at 8% per year simple to the 
compensation amount until the date it makes settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint against Phoenix Life Limited
I direct Phoenix Life Limited to calculate and pay the compensation set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman