DRN-3483233
The complaint
Mr Z is unhappy with the service Nationwide Building Society provided when he opened a 
fixed rate ISA.
What happened
Mr Z complained to Nationwide on 14 April 2021 and was told his account was subject to 
delay due to the high volume of applications. He was told the effective date would be 
backdated to 29 March 2021 (when it was received) to protect his ISA allowance. This did 
not initially happen, and nor was a £50 cashback offer he was entitled to referenced when he 
received his investment certificate. Nationwide confirmed there was a known problem with 
transfers not being backdated and this would be fixed, and the cashback would be paid by 
30 June 2021 in line with the terms of the offer. 
Around four weeks after Mr Z contacted the branch about the initial delay he received a new 
and corrected certificate of investment but with no recognition of the circumstances. Mr Z 
made a formal complaint. In its final response letter Nationwide re-iterated that the delays 
were due to high volumes, and confirmed the account had been backdated to 29 March 
2021. They paid Mr Z £50 to apologise for the delays. 
Mr Z replied saying he wasnt complaining about the delay as that had been resolved rather 
it was about the issues detailed in his emails with the branch between 14 April 2021 and 4 
June 2021 (including questions about the dates of the known incident; no apology of 
explanatory details with the reissued certificate; and no answer to his query on how to 
formally complain to senior management). He was also unhappy the same complaint 
reference was being used. 
Nationwide explained his initial complaint had been re-opened as it all related to the same 
ISA and issues relating to the account opening process. It again apologised for the delays 
but disagreed the cashback offer was misleading and pointed out Mr Z had benefited from it.
Mr Z brought his complaint to this service asking for further compensation (£800) for the 
stress and inconvenience caused, as well as for the other investment opportunities he 
missed as a result. He does not accept the reasons Nationwide gave for the delays, rather 
he feels there is a systemic problem. And he is unhappy with how it managed his 
subsequent complaint. He also believes the cashback offer was misleading as it was not 
operationally possible to secure it by applying online, only by going to a branch.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Zs complaint. She found Nationwide had already 
corrected the impact of its failing by backdating the account opening and transfer date. It had 
apologised for the delay and fairly compensated Mr Z for the trouble this caused him. She 
did not consider the missed investment opportunities as Nationwide had put Mr Z back in the 
position he would have been in had there not been a delay to the account opening and 
transfer.  She explained she can only look at the merits of this case and cant comment on 
compensation it might have paid to other members. Equally as complaint handling is not a 
regulated activity she could not consider Mr Zs points about this. With regards the cashback 
offer, she said Nationwide had made payment on 22 June 2021 in line with the terms of the 
promotion and it isnt our role to review how it opts to run such promotions. 
Unhappy with this assessment Mr Z asked for an ombudsmans review. He said the delay is 
not the essence of his complaint  it is the failure of Nationwide to meet it promises and 
assurances. He feels it has covered up everything using the reasons of high demand and 
delay. In summary, he finds the investigation to date defends Nationwide and repeats its 
excuses; dismisses Nationwides misleading cashback offer as non-consequential; and fails 
to review objectively the problems with Nationwides complaint handling. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Zs complaint. Ill explain why. But I first want to 
respond to Mr Zs point that this service just seems to defend Nationwide. We are an 
independent and impartial organisation; we dont act on behalf of either consumers or 
financial organisations - theres no benefit for us to find in the favour of one party over the 
other.
I have considered all of Mr Zs points carefully, in keeping with our role as an informal 
dispute resolution service I will focus here on those that I find to be material to the outcome 
of his complaint.
 
It is not in dispute that there were delays and problems when Mr Z opened his ISA, including 
the issuance of an incorrect certificate of investment. These were remedied by Nationwide 
as it had committed to Mr Z, albeit not in the timeliest manner. 
I note Mr Zs point that the delay is not his issue, rather he feels Nationwide has not been 
transparent about what was really going on  he feels the given explanation of a high volume 
of applications masks more systemic issues. But he hasnt supplied any evidence to support 
this claim. And I havent found anything to suggest that Nationwide didnt receive an 
unexpectedly high volume of applications that it struggled to cope with. So I think the delay is 
pertinent in this case and I think Nationwide put this right when it backdated the account 
opening and transfer date to ensure Mr Z did not suffer any financial loss. 
Mr Z argues he did as for the period if time it took Nationwide to rectify the issue he was 
without access to his funds to make other investments. But I disagree with this as our 
approach is to make sure a customer is put back in the position they would have been in had 
the business not made an error. Backdating the account had this affect. It seems to me 
Mr Zs logic relies on him having made a totally different decision and having not applied for 
a Nationwide ISA. 
With regards the compensation Nationwide has paid Mr Z, I find it to be fair. He knew within 
two days of raising his concern about the delay that the society would backdate his account 
opening to fall into the tax year 2020/21. I accept the process was not without further failings 
when the incorrect investment certificate was issued, but Mr Z already had the reassurance 
from the society in writing that it had received his application on 29 March 2021. So I think 
he had some comfort that the errors would be corrected and any potential loss mitigated. To 
be clear I am not saying the service was acceptable or what Mr Z is entitled to expect, but 
that I think £50 adequately recognises the level of trouble and inconvenience caused.  I 
cannot comment on payments other members may have received, only this case. 
Mr Z also says that he could have easily missed out on the cashback had he not been so 
diligent when considering how to open his ISA. But he benefited from the promotion as it was advertised - because he ensured he met the terms of it - and we do not consider 
hypothetical losses. Our role is to look at the merits of an individual complaint and in Mr Zs 
case I can find no error in how Nationwide managed the cashback promotion. 
Finally, as the investigator has explained we do not have the power to review how 
Nationwide handled Mr Zs complaint. I understand this is frustrating for him but the rules we 
must follow set out what we can and cant look out. As complaint handling is not regulated 
activity it falls outside our jurisdiction.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Zs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman