DRN-3125986
The complaint
Miss B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) concerning a solar panel 
system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
What happened
In or around November 2017, a representative of a company Ill call P contacted Miss B to 
talk about buying a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. After a visit 
from a representative of P, Miss B decided to buy the system and to finance it through a 15-
year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In or around September 2019 Miss B made a claim to Shawbrook under section 75 of the 
Act. She said that P had made a number of representations about the system that had 
turned out not to be true. And she said it was these misrepresentations that had induced her 
to enter into the contract with P. She made the following points;
The system hasnt been generating the financial benefits she was led to believe;
Shed been told that after taking into account the income from the system in the form 
of the feed-in-tariff (FIT), shed only need to contribute around £35 a month towards 
her loan repayments; and
The system would pay for itself over the term of the loan and shed make a profit 
from having it.
As Shawbrook hadnt responded to her complaint, Miss B referred her complaint to our 
service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Miss B, and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
Miss B didnt agree with the investigators view. She says she relied on the verbal 
representations made to her by the salesperson, who she trusted. She believes she was 
tricked into the agreement.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act. Section 75 provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Miss B paid for the system with a fixed-sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This allows Miss B to claim against Shawbrook, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Miss B 
and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both Miss B and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive looked at these in detail and have considered whether they support the alleged 
representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and that its therefore relevant, alongside Miss Bs 
recollection of the sale, when considering if there were any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest rate to be charged, 
the total charge for credit, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
Benefits from the system
Miss B says that P told her that although the estimated monthly loan repayments were 
£93.60, the FIT would cover more than half that amount. So shed effectively only need to 
contribute around £35 a month towards her loan repayments. 
Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and whether this supports what Miss B has 
said.
The System Analysis section of the quote sets out the estimated income Miss B could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.I think that the first of these tables is clear that Miss B could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £136.36.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Miss B could expect from the system. 
The expected year one electricity saving is £228.87. Taking into account the optional extras 
which Miss B chose, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £705.67. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables, showing repayments over 
60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months, as this is 
the length of the loan that Miss B entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £93.60. For each year of the 15-year year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 
12 months and, in the last column, subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £93.60, to give 
an average difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan 
repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the return that Miss B could expect to receive from the 
system by way of FIT payments and additional savings, and the monthly loan repayments 
that would be due. It shows that in the first year it was estimated that the average monthly 
return from the system would fall short of the monthly loan repayment by approximately £35 
a month. This supports what Miss B says about having been told that shed need to 
contribute around £35 a month towards her monthly loan repayments.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Miss B that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly return from 
the system, and the effect on that return of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that the table makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the 
start. I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and monthly loan repayments, as Miss B says she was told.
However, I do accept that P told Miss B that the system would be self-funding over a 
duration of time. 
The quote includes a table headed Estimated performance over 25 years. This shows that it 
was estimated that by year 15 the overall benefits that Miss B could expect to receive would 
have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
Im satisfied that P told Miss B that it was estimated that the system would pay for itself by 
year 15, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact and if 
I were satisfied that it was what induced Miss B to enter into the contract, and she 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether its in line with the 
contract between P and Miss B. The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system was 
expected to produce 2,093 kWh a year.
Ive looked at Miss Bs FIT statements and the evidence provided by Shawbrook on behalf 
of P. I can see that there was an issue with the system which meant that for the first year it 
wasnt performing as it should have done. That goes towards explaining why Miss B had to 
contribute more than expected towards her monthly loan repayments in that year. The issue 
was resolved in March 2019, and P paid Miss B the shortfall, which she accepted.
Ive looked at Miss Bs FIT statements after March 2019, and can see that the most recent 
statement provided shows that the system generated 2,152 kWh in the year from 1 April 
2019 to 1 April 2020. Thats slightly more than P estimated at the point of sale. So Im 
satisfied that once the system was fixed, it started performing as expected. 
Ive noted that Miss B gave P an updated meter reading in February 2021. I calculate that 
this shows an average annual generation of around 2,077 kWh per year in the period from 
the date when the system was fixed to the date of Miss Bs reading. I acknowledge that this 
is very slightly below the estimated annual generation shown on the quote. But the 
difference is less than 1 per cent. And I dont consider that to be a significant enough 
discrepancy to suggest that the system isnt performing as expected.
Ive also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. Im 
satisfied that Ps methods for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. Ive looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and can see that the increases have been lower than P predicted at the point of sale. 
I think this explains why Miss B hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have 
been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As Ive explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available from 
the ONS covering 2006 to 2017. I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them as 
the basis for calculating the potential financial return Miss B could expect from the system.
So while I appreciate that the return may not have been as high as estimated at the point of 
sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to P using unreasonable assumptions when 
Miss B entered into the contract.
Ive borne in mind that P slightly overstated the average RPI rate. But the discrepancy works 
out to be less than £10 a year over the term of the loan. Im satisfied that this is within a 
reasonable margin of error for the purposes of calculating the estimated benefits of the 
system. So I wont be asking Shawbrook to make up this difference. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that P didnt make any untrue statement of fact that induced Miss B to enter into the 
contract for the system. And Ive found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman