DRN-3211867
The complaint
Mr T complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) has unfairly 
charged him for damage to a car which he took under a hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
In June 2018 Mr T entered into a four-year hire purchase with MBFS for a new car. Mr T 
chose to return the car in July 2021, and it was collected from his home. He says that it was 
inspected at the time and that he was told everything was in order. 
Shortly afterwards, however, MBFS told Mr T that it would be charging him for a missing V5 
document, a missing wheel key and for damage to the cars rear quarter panel. Mr T 
disputed the charges. MBFS agreed to drop the charges for the items it had said were 
missing, but said that the charge for damage  a paint scratch  would stand. It explained 
that the inspection carried out when the car was collected was a preliminary one only and 
that a more detailed inspection was carried out after the return of the car. It invoiced Mr T for 
£210.  
Mr T referred the matter to this service. He said that the car had not been damaged when it 
was collected and that it must have been damaged between collection and inspection. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened. Having reviewed the inspection 
report provided by MBFS, he concluded that the damage identified was outside the 
acceptable return standards set out in the hire purchase agreement. He was not persuaded 
that the damage had been caused after the car had been collected from Mr T. He thought 
too that the level of the charge was reasonable. 
Mr T did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T says that he was aware that the car had to be returned in good condition. Indeed, he 
says that he replaced two tyres shortly before he handed the car back for that very reason. 
The hire purchase agreement set out over more than two pages the Vehicle Return 
Standards that were acceptable. 
In respect of paintwork, the agreement said that light surface scratches not through the top 
coat and which could be removed by polishing or touch up were acceptable. That is broadly 
consistent with the standards published by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association, which say that scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not 
showing are acceptable. The hire purchase agreement said that scratches that had 
penetrated the base coat were not acceptable.  
The full inspection report in this case shows that there is a scratch on the cars nearside rear 
quarter panel and that it is more than 25 mm long; the primer is showing. 
I must therefore consider whether that damage was existing when the car was collected from 
Mr T or whether it was incurred between then and the inspection. The investigator noted that 
Mr T had been in possession of the car for around three years and thought therefore that it 
was more likely that the damage was caused during that period. I think its likely too that Mr 
T was not aware of the scratch but that it came to light when a detailed inspection was 
carried out. 
I also agree with the investigator that the charge of £210 appears reasonable in the 
circumstances. It broadly represents the likely cost of a repair. 
I acknowledge that Mr T says he returned the car in good condition and with a mileage well 
below the permitted level of 7,000 miles a year. The detailed inspection did however reveal 
damage outside the permitted standards. And, whilst MBFS would have been entitled to 
charge an additional mileage fee had Mr T exceeded the mileage allowance, the hire 
purchase agreement did not provide for a refund if the mileage was below the maximum 
permitted.     
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to do anything more to resolve Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman