DRN-1149488
Complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr B was sold a PPI policy in connection with a mortgage in 1998. The PPI would have 
provided a monthly benefit for up 12 months per claim if Mr B was off work sick or lost his 
job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. Mr B didnt agree with the 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I understand that Mr B will be 
disappointed by this outcome but I will now explain why I have reached this decision.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr B was eligible for this policy. Bearing in mind Mr Bs 
age, employment and residence at the time of the sale, I think Mr B was eligible.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr B that the PPI was optional and needed his consent 
for it to be applied to the account. Mr B has told us that it wasnt made clear to him that this 
policy was optional  if it had been, he says he would not have taken it out as he had 
sufficient existing repayment provisions in place.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale and unfortunately I dont have 
documents from the time of the sale to show me if and how PPI was presented during the 
sale. However, I cant hold it against Nationwide that they can no longer provide these 
documents given the length of time since the sale. And I wouldnt expect Mr B to now have a 
detailed recollection of what took place during the sale either.
Nationwide have told us that they would have provided Mr B with an option to take or decline 
PPI and that PPI would only have been added if Mr B had chosen to take it out. This accords 
with my experience of how Nationwide sold PPI at around the time of this sale and the 
documentation I have seen in other cases.  
So while I appreciate what Mr B has told us, I cant say that its more likely that on this 
occasion Nationwide deviated from their sales process and didnt present the policy as 
optional or that they applied it to Mr Bs account without his agreement. I havent seen any evidence which suggests Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr B. This 
means I dont think Nationwide had to check whether the PPI was suitable for Mr B. So for 
example, Mr B has told us about his existing generous employee benefits at the time of the 
sale and the savings he held but Nationwide didnt have to take these into account when 
selling Mr B PPI. Instead it would have been for Mr B to decide whether or not to take PPI 
despite his existing provisions. 
But Nationwide did have to give Mr B clear information so that he could make an informed 
decision about whether or not to take PPI. Its possible the information Nationwide gave    Mr 
B wasnt as clear as it should have been. This in itself doesnt mean that the PPI was mis-
sold as I have to consider whether better information would have put Mr B off taking the PPI 
out. And based on the evidence available to me, I dont think it would have. This is because:
 
Although Mr B has told us that he was entitled to 12 months pay from his employer if 
he was off work sick, I note that he had only been working with his employer for a 
relatively short while at the time of the sale. And in any event, the policy would have 
paid out in addition to Mr Bs sick pay. It would also have paid out for up to 12 
months per claim if he lost his job and in addition to any savings he held. And as 
already set out, Nationwide didnt have to check whether Mr Bs existing repayment 
provisions meant that he may have already had sufficient existing cover in place.
 
Mr B doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which may have 
prevented him from making a successful claim under the policy.
 
The policy was of a relatively low cost compared to the benefit it provided and I 
havent seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable to Mr B.
 
Mr B could have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially.
 
So having taken everything into account, I dont think Nationwide mis-sold Mr B this PPI 
policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman