DRN-3394364
The complaint
Ms I complains about the way Nationwide Building Society treated her after her interest only 
mortgage came to an end.
What happened
Ms I took out a mortgage in 1985 with a 25-year term. She says she took out an endowment 
policy to repay the capital she owed on her mortgage when the term came to an end. 
However, when she used her endowment to pay off her mortgage in 2010 there was still a 
debt to repay, so she extended her mortgage for a for a further nine years. Ms I says she 
has previously complained about the sale of her mortgage and received compensation that 
she wasnt happy with. For completeness I will say here that that issue is not part of this 
complaint.
In 2019 Ms Is mortgage term came to an end. Ms I still owed Nationwide £17,000. Ms I 
complained to Nationwide about the tone of the letters they sent her about this as she found 
them threatening. 
Ms I says she wasnt able to pay the outstanding balance of her mortgage without taking 
money from her pension. She wasnt prepared to do that as that would mean shed have to 
pay a significant amount of tax. Nor was she happy with the options Nationwide suggested. 
She wanted to continue making the same payments shed already been making towards her 
mortgage. However, Nationwide said they would need to assess her income and 
expenditure (I&E) before they could proceed.
Ms I was unhappy with the questions Nationwide asked her in their I&E form. She said the 
questions (including one about how much she spent on nappies) were intrusive, insulting, 
and irrelevant. So she refused to fill it in. Nationwide said it couldnt help her until she did so. 
In its final response Nationwide said their letters werent intended to be threatening, but their 
tone reflected the need for Ms Is debt to be repaid once the mortgage term had expired. 
They said there had to be mutual agreement about how the outstanding balance was repaid, 
and that they were obliged to fully assess affordability when considering how Ms I repaid 
what she owed.
Ms I also asked Nationwide whether her mortgage (or indeed any mortgage she had had 
with them) had been securitized, and what it meant when it had referred to the overpayment 
reserve on her mortgage. She wasnt satisfied by the answers Nationwide gave her.
Ms I redeemed her mortgage in full in November 2020.
The complaint was looked at by one of our investigators who didnt think that Nationwide had 
done anything wrong. Ms I appears to have accepted much of what our investigator said. 
However she remained unhappy with Nationwide. She said that while she accepts that they 
needed some sort of I&E declaration from her, she doesnt think that meant they should 
demand she answered intrusive and personal questions. She thinks Nationwide could have 
got the information they needed from her Nationwide current account records. Ms I remains 
concerned about whether her mortgage was securitized and thinks that Nationwide havent 
been honest when theyve said it wasnt. 
Ms I had also complained that Nationwide havent explained what it meant when it referred 
to overpayments to her mortgage account. She thinks Nationwide shouldve done more to 
help her understand. In April 2022 Nationwide sent Ms I a letter setting this out in detail. 
As Ms I disagreed with what our investigator said, she asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed on to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwides actions around the time Ms Is mortgage came to an end
My starting point on this complaint has been to consider what Nationwide did before Ms Is 
mortgage came to the end of its term in 2019. I can see that they sent Ms I multiple letters 
(from as far back as 2016) to say that her mortgage was coming to an end, and to ask about 
her plans to repay the balance. So, Im satisfied that Ms I was aware of the status of her 
mortgage and the need to repay the outstanding balance at the end of her mortgage.
Ms I wrote to Nationwide in 2016 to say that her pension was on track as a repayment 
vehicle. However, shortly before the end of her mortgage she contacted Nationwide to 
discuss how she could repay the mortgage without having to release money from her 
pension. 
Ive considered the letters Nationwide sent Ms I. While I appreciate that she has been clear 
about how it made her feel, I dont think they were threatening or inappropriate. I think the 
letters were intended to be direct and reflect the fact that an arrangement (that Ms I and 
Nationwide were both happy with) needed to put in place to ensure that Ms I repaid the 
outstanding amount she owed.
Ive also considered how Nationwide acted when they said that Ms I needed to fill out an I&E 
form before they could agree to a repayment plan with her after her mortgage came to an 
end. Im in no doubt that Ms I was very annoyed by this. She wanted to make the payments 
she felt she could afford, and she didnt think she should have to fill in an I&E form to do this 
- especially given the nature of some of the questions asked. Its clear that she feels that in 
insisting that Ms I filled out the form, Nationwide was acting unreasonably and abusing their 
position.
I understand the points Ms I has made. However, as a responsible lender, Nationwide was 
required to ensure the affordability of any payment arrangements put into place to repay 
Ms Is mortgage. Im conscious that Ms I told us that she was stretched financially by the 
payments she made towards her mortgage. So, I cant say that Nationwide made a mistake 
when they asked her to complete an I&E form so that it could understand her circumstances 
fully. Nationwide could have looked through Ms Is current account records to try and get this 
information as Ms I has suggested. But they would get a more complete picture - one that 
Ms I had confirmed was correct - by getting her to complete the form. It isnt unusual for 
lenders to ask borrowers to complete and I&E form in these situations so I cant say that 
Nationwide acted unfairly here. 
As our investigator said, its likely the questions on the I&E form were deliberately general in 
nature so that Nationwide were in a position to get the best picture possible of Ms Is circumstances. So while I appreciate how frustrated Ms I was by the I&E form, I think 
Nationwide could reasonably expect her to fill it in order for them to be in a position to give 
her tailored support to help her repay what she owed without causing her financial difficulty. 
So I dont think it acted unreasonably in relation to the I&E form.
Other points
Ms I has told us that she doesnt believe Nationwide when it says that her mortgage hasnt 
been securitized. She says she suspects that at least one of her Nationwide mortgages was 
securitized and feels that she has been fobbed off. Recently she has told us she wants to 
know exactly what questions were put to Nationwide about this, and what answers were 
given. She asked Nationwide to sign a detailed statement on this point.
I dont underestimate her strength of feeling about this matter. However, Im satisfied by the 
answer Nationwide has given us (that her mortgage wasnt securitized) and think its unlikely 
that they would deliberately mislead us as she has suggested. The Financial Ombudsman 
Service is an informal dispute resolution service, and it isnt appropriate for our service to 
require Nationwide to answer Ms Is detailed questions or sign a detailed statement about 
this. 
Finally I can see that recently Nationwide sent Ms I a letter about the overpayments 
Ms I made to her mortgage account. I think this adequately explains the overpayment 
reserve on her mortgage. I appreciate that Ms I thinks Nationwide should have done more to 
explain this to her sooner (in a way that she understood), and I have some sympathy with 
her about this. As she has said, she isnt an expert on mortgages. However, I can see that 
Ms I raised a number of points with Nationwide in her correspondence and Nationwide 
focused on the repayment of her mortgage in their replies to her. So I can see how this 
happened.
I appreciate that Ms I is likely to be disappointed by this decision as its clear from what has 
been said and provided that she remains angry with Nationwide. However, I dont uphold this 
complaint for the reasons set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman