DRN-2784033
The complaint
Mr H has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined a claim he made under
his caravan insurance policy. Mrs H is dealing with the complaint on Mr Hs behalf.
What happened
Mr H said he hadnt used the caravan since putting it into storage in February 2019. In
October 2019 an engineer arranged for the caravan to be taken from storage for a routine
service. The engineer advised Mr H that the axle had dropped. So Mr H made a claim to his
insurer, AXA for repairs. Mr H told AXA he hadnt noticed any issue with the caravan and
wasnt aware of any incident that would have caused the damage.
AXA declined Mr Hs claim as it said there was no evidence of an insurable event. Mr H then
provided an estimate for repairs from the caravan repairer to support his claim, but AXA said
this didnt clarify that the damage was impact related. So in its absence, AXA said the
damage must have been caused by wear and tear, which is excluded from cover.
Mrs H asked us to look at their complaint. In June 2020 our investigator thought AXA had
acted reasonably. She thought the letter from the engineer didnt make it clear as to whether
an incident with a kerb caused damage to the axle and tyre, or just a tyre. She said AXAs
policy says it must be notified of a claim within 180 days (six months) of the incident date. As
it was eight months since Mr H said the caravan was fine in February 2019, this made it
harder to evidence when the damage was done and the cause. The investigator said she
would have reasonably expected AXA to have carried out an inspection to assess the
damage  but due to the time that had passed, she didnt think an inspection now would be
necessary.
So from the information available, the investigator thought AXAs decision to decline the
claim was reasonable and in line with the policy terms.
In July 2020 Mrs H provided an updated estimate from the repairer which said the repairs
are for kerb damage causing the stub axle to loosen and cause uneven tyre wear.
We sent this information to AXA to consider and asked it to consider an inspection of the
caravan. But Mr and Mrs H have since sold the caravan. They said they paid for the repairs
before it was sold. The caravan repairer provided a copy of the receipt for repairs from
January 2020 and confirmation of the sale of the caravan in October 2020.
Mrs H wanted an ombudsman to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 29 March 2021. I 
thought AXA hadnt done enough to show its decision to decline the claim for the damage 
due to wear and tear was reasonable. So I thought AXA should meet Mr Hs claim by 
reimbursing him for the impact related damage repairs hed paid for before selling the 
caravan, with interest.
Mr H accepted my provisional decision. AXA didnt reply. So the case has been passed back 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent received any new information, my final decision remains along the same lines 
as my provisional decision. 
When Mr H first reported the incident, he said the axle was fine the last time he towed the
caravan in February 2019 and hadnt noticed any issues. However, the company carrying
out the service in October 2019 had identified that the axle had dropped.
AXA explained that  similarly to a MOT identifying an issue  without an insurable incident
happening, the damage wouldnt be covered. Mr H couldnt say when or how the damage
occurred. AXA said the policy doesnt cover every eventuality.
Mr H provided AXA with an estimate which he said confirmed the damage was impact
related. The first estimate from the caravan servicing repairer in October 2019 said:
Damage stub axle loose, tyre uneven wear due to impact with kerb
AXA said the repairer gave no reason for the cause of damage to the axle and no cover is
provided for tyre damage. I think AXAs approach here was reasonable.
In July 2020 Mr H provided a revised estimate from the caravan repairer. This said:
Damage to Caravan
Damage from impact with kerb, causing stub axle loose which is causing uneven tyre
wear.
Mr Hs policy with AXA says it will pay for loss or damage to the caravan, but as with all
insurance policies, it also provides a list of exclusions. AXA wont provide cover for damage
caused by; depreciation, weathering, wear and tear, ingress of water through seams and
seals, mechanical or electrical failures or breakages or the effects of mildew, moth or vermin
or any gradually operating cause.
When making a claim, AXA says that it may inspect the caravan where loss or damage has
occurred. I think that when Mr H provided information from the caravan repairer, in order to
decline his claim for wear and tear, it should have arranged for an inspection of Mr Hs
caravan to support its decision. Although AXA had the opportunity to do this, it didnt. In this
case, I dont think its fair that AXA applied an exclusion for wear and tear without being able
to show this was the cause.
As Mr H has since sold the caravan and an inspection isnt possible, I dont think theres
enough to show that AXAs decision to decline the claim was reasonable. 
Putting things right
I think the fairest outcome is for AXA to meet Mr Hs claim and reimburse him for the repair 
costs minus the excess due under the policy. I think AXA should pay interest on the 
reimbursement from the date Mr H paid to the date it reimburses him at a rate of 8% simple 
interest a year.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do the 
following:
Meet Mr Hs claim for damage under the policy and reimburse him for the 
repair costs he paid minus the excess due under the policy.Pay interest on the amount at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the 
date Mr H paid to the date AXA reimburses him.
If Mr H considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from
such interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman