DRN-2065981
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on her 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumers complaint against one 
insurance company or other regulated financial firm at a time. 
Where it is a complaint about a claim under an insurance policy, we treat it as a complaint 
against the insurance company that was responsible for dealing with that claim. In our final 
decision we name that insurance company, but we dont name any other party.
Mrs M had a comprehensive motor insurance policy under which Advantage was 
responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to Advantage, I include its claims-handlers 
and others for whose actions I hold Advantage responsible.
On 5 February 2019 Mrs M and a third party were involved in a road traffic incident. Mrs M 
reported that - when the collision occurred - she was were stationary beyond the give- way 
line at a junction with a roundabout. 
She complained that Advantage recorded a fault claim against her.
Advantage sent a final response letter dated 22 May 2019. Unhappy with that, Mrs M 
brought her complaint to us on 20 November 2019. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that Advantage had investigated the claim as we wouldve expected. She was satisfied that 
the claim had been correctly recorded.
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
Crossing the line into a junction doesnt give the third party a right to smash into her 
stationary vehicle with two young children in it.
Not once has Advantage asked about them. 
The police were witness to the aftermath and heard the two witnesses stating that the 
other party was speeding. The police mentioned there was ample stopping distance 
had he not been speeding.
At worst this should have been a 50/50 fault.
She hasnt received any money for the car seats Advantage insisted she change.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage arranged repair of Mrs Ms car. And I see that the policy contained child seat 
cover as follows:
If you have a childs car seat or booster seat fitted in your car and your car is 
involved in an accident , provided you are making a claim under sections 1 or 2 of 
this policy, your insurer will pay for the cost of a replacement of a similar model and 
standard even if there is no apparent damage, subject to the provision of the 
purchase receipt for the original item
Advantages file contains mention that it would reimburse Mrs M for replacement child seats 
if she provided proof of payment. I havent seen any indication that Mrs M complained to 
Advantage about this before she brought her complaint to us. So she should contact 
Advantage and get a final response on that issue before deciding whether to bring it to us.
Its usual for a motor insurer to record a fault claim against its policyholder unless and until it 
recovers its outlay in full from a third party. If liability is settled 50/50 between the 
policyholder and a third party, neither of their insurers will recover its outlay in full. 
The policy terms between Mrs M and Advantage included the following terms:
The insurer shall be entitled to conduct the defence or settlement of any claim 
In circumstances where it is considered appropriate your insurer will be entitled to 
admit liability, for the costs covered under this policy, on behalf of you or any person 
claiming indemnity under the policy. Such admissions may be made prior to or after 
the commencement of proceedings in relation to any event likely to give rise to a 
claim under the policy.
Your insurer can, for their own benefit:
 take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim; and
 take legal action over any claim.
These actions may be taken in your name or the name of any insured person.
I dont consider those to be unusual terms in a motor insurance policy. They meant that  on 
the subject of liability  Advantages view would prevail over Mrs Ms. But I will consider 
whether Advantage applied those terms fairly.
There was a witness to the incident. Police attended after the event. Mrs M says they agreed 
that the third party had been speeding.
Advantages file shows that it tried to contact the witness on 25 February and 7 March 2019 - 
but got no response.  
Advantage didnt contact the police. I find it likely that Advantage knew from experience that 
this would cause delay. And from its file I find that Advantage took the view that  if the case 
went to court  evidence of Mrs Ms position on the road would outweigh any evidence that 
the third party was speeding.
So Im satisfied that Advantage conducted a reasonable and proportionate investigation.
It weighed up the evidence and the prospects of success in any court case involving Mrs M 
and the third party. It decided to accept the third partys claim and record a fault claim 
against Mrs M. The fault claim is likely to have an adverse financial effect on Mrs M. A 50/50 would also 
have resulted in a fault claim against her because Advantage wouldnt have recovered its 
outlay in full.
I keep in mind the policy terms quoted above. Overall I cant say Advantage applied those 
terms unfairly when it made its decision.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to amend the fault claim or to do 
any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman