DRN-3601327
The complaint
Mr A complains he was misled about the details of a property investment. The investment 
was made through PropTech Crowd Ltd (PropTech) trading as Igloo Crowd, which was an 
appointed representative of Share In Ltd.
What happened
PropTech ran a crowdfunding platform. Investors could buy shares in companies (special 
purpose vehicles, or SPVs) set up with the express intent in investing in something. Here, 
that was generally property.
So investors bought shares in the SPV, and the SPV purchased a property or properties. 
Income (for example from rent, or the sale of a property) could be distributed to investors 
through dividends, and the shares could be sold to other investors.
Mr A had made such investments before, and in July 2018 he invested in a particular SPV Ill 
call X. I understand Mr A was the sole investor in X. The proposition was for X to buy a 
leasehold flat for £33,000 and aim to renovate and sell it for a profit in a short timeframe.
Mr A invested an initial £44,000 through PropTech into X. Although the property didnt get 
sold, Mr A received dividends, and then in September 2020 he invested a further £3,000 for 
additional expenses related to the property X had bought. Shortly afterwards, the SPV was 
sold, and Mr A received just under £50,000 for his shareholding. Taking into account the 
dividends, Mr A made around £5,000 profit overall.
Mr A complained to Share In. He said he had concerns about the investment hed made, 
which he felt Share In was responsible for as PropTechs principal. He said hed discovered 
the PropTech representative knew who the flat was being brought from personally. He said 
he thought the flat had in fact been worth a lot less than £33,000, and doubted whether X 
had in fact paid that much for it. He therefore thought he was entitled to more money, as his 
profit on the investment had been reduced by paying an inflated price for the flat.
Share In responded to Mr A to say it had ended PropTechs appointed representative status 
in the middle of 2020. It apologised for any failings on its part, but directed Mr A to pursue 
PropTechs representative directly for any further losses he felt hed suffered. Mr A wasnt 
happy with that, and came to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into things, and in summary she said:
Share In was responsible for approving the promotional material for the X 
investment. As PropTechs principal, it was also responsible for that companys 
arrangement of the investment into X. 
When arranging the investment, Share In/PropTech needed to abide by the 
regulators Principles and Conduct of Business Rules. In particular they needed to 
ensure they had regard for Mr As interests and treated him fairly, and that they 
communicated in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading.
There was sufficient evidence to cast doubt on the explanations PropTech gave 
about the property purchase that was the intention for the X investment. It had misled 
Mr A about who the property was to be purchased from. And it hadnt been able to 
satisfactorily evidence that the price given in the promotional materials was what X in 
fact had agreed to pay for the property.
She said that had the information been clear and accurate, she didnt think Mr A 
would have invested.
She thought Share In should put Mr A in the position hed been in had he not 
invested in X, but done something else with his money instead.
Share In largely accepted our investigators findings. Although it noted that the top up 
payment Mr A made towards the investment in September 2020 wasnt for more shares, and 
was after the time at which PropTech had stopped being an appointed representative of 
Share In.
Mr A didnt think our investigators assessment fairly compensated him. He said the SPV had 
probably really only paid £11,000 for the property. And so he felt he was entitled to the 
£22,000 difference between that and what PropTech had said had been paid for it. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind and so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. 
At this stage, it doesnt seem in dispute that the information Mr A was given about this 
investment was incomplete and misleading.
When discussing the details of the investment proposition, Mr A asked PropTech how the 
person from whom the property was to be purchased was connected to PropTech itself. Mr 
A was told that there was no connection, and that the opportunity had been brought by a 
surveyor. That has been shown to be untrue, with the PropTech representative having 
known the property sellers personally. 
Similarly, like our investigator I think the details around the purchase price of the property X 
was to be buying were unclear and misleading. PropTech told Mr A that X had agreed to buy 
the flat for £33,000 from someone whod just bought it at auction for £11,000. 
Xs account statements show nine payments being made to two people between July and 
September 2018, for various sums and totalling a little under £30,000. One of these people 
is the individual who transferred title of the flat to X, although that transfer of title didnt 
happen until the middle of 2019.
Mr A has made many detailed submissions about the relationship between PropTech and 
the parties from whom X purchased the flat. I can confirm Ive read them in detail, but for 
reasons Ill come onto shortly I dont think I need to say much about the actual flat purchase 
itself.For the purposes of this decision its enough that the above suggests to me, persuasively, 
that at the very least the envisaged transaction X was set up to carry out wasnt as 
straightforward as PropTech suggested to Mr A before he invested. PropTech had an 
existing relationship with the people X was going to buy the flat from, and doesnt seem to 
have followed any kind of usual process for purchasing a property. I find it unusual for the 
payments which are (presumably) for the flat to be made staggered in small and different 
amounts over a period of time, especially given Xs accounts had received Mr As investment 
into them, meaning the full purchase price was available. 
Ill now turn to what all that means for Mr As complaint, which involves briefly addressing the 
roles of the different parties here.
Some of that is complicated by the fact PropTechs representative wore two distinct hats. He 
was dealing with Mr A as PropTech, promoting and arranging an investment into X. From a 
regulatory perspective, its solely the shares Mr A was subscribing to in the SPV that are an 
investment. What the SPV then did  buying a flat  and how that came to pass is distinct 
from a legal and regulatory standpoint. PropTechs representative was also the sole director 
of X. But his actions as such  and anything done by or on behalf of the SPV itself  arent 
matters that PropTech was responsible for, or that were done in carrying on any regulated 
activity. And so they arent things relevant to this complaint, which concerns those regulated 
activities carried on by PropTech for which Share In had taken responsibility.
So to the extent Mr A, reasonably, wants more answers about what happened with the 
SPVs purchase of the flat or the price it paid for it, these would need to be addressed to the 
SPV/its director in that capacity.
As Ive explained, I think PropTech misled and was unclear with Mr A about the details of the 
investment proposition. The question then remains what loss this has caused Mr A, if any? 
In other words, what would Mr A have done had PropTech been clearer, in particular about 
the identity of the people X was to be buying the flat from?
Our investigator thought Mr A would simply have turned down the investment opportunity, 
and done something else with his money. On balance, I agree. In his complaint Mr A himself 
said he would not have invested if [PropTechs representative] had disclosed to me the fact 
that [the people selling the flat to X] were connected to him. As this is Mr As own testimony, 
made before the outcome of the complaint was communicated to him, I find it particularly 
persuasive.
 Mr A has now argued he still would have invested, but that the flat would only have been 
purchased by the SPV for £11,000. Hes said that we should take into account that the shole 
transaction was, in his view, dishonest.
I appreciate Mr As strength of feeling. I acknowledge there are still unanswered questions 
about the flat purchase itself. But Ive also weighed up that this complaint, as Ive mentioned, 
doesnt and cant concern the arrangements between the SPV and those selling the flat to X. 
I dont have the power to say the flat purchase by X should have been carried out at a 
particular price. Because that flat purchase wasnt part of the regulated activity of selling Mr 
A shares in X. And it wasnt conducted by Share In or by PropTech. I acknowledge that 
given the individual in question (the PropTech representative/director of X) was the same, 
had Mr A been fully informed he might have been able to negotiate or push for a better deal. 
But I cant say that with any certainty. And ultimately such an outcome would rely on the 
people selling the flat to X agreeing to a different price. Those people are far outside the 
scope of this complaint and our services jurisdiction. 
For these reasons I share our investigators view that, presented with clear fair and not misleading information about the investment opportunity in X, Mr A wouldnt have invested at 
all.
Putting things right
If Mr A hadnt made the investment in X, I dont know precisely what hed have done with it. 
He might have made another investment with PropTech, or done something completely 
different with it. But Mr A was deprived of the use of that money for whatever hed have 
chosen to do with it, for the time it was tied up in the X investment. In circumstances where 
we dont know what someone would have done with their money, our services long standing 
approach is to award a rate of 8% on that money for the time someones deprived of it. So 
here I think that rate is a reasonable benchmark to use for calculating any loss Mr A might 
have suffered. 
So to compensate Mr A fairly Share In must:
Compare the performance of Mr As investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Share In must also pay interest as set out below. I note Mr A has explained that he 
wouldnt be able to accept any award that takes the form of an interest payment. Ive 
taken this into consideration. I have a duty to say what I think is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of a complaint. And where there has been a crystallised loss, 
and thats deprived someone of money, I dont think it would be fair for the 
responsible party not to pay interest on that sum. Mr A is of course free to speak to 
Share In directly about that portion of any compensation and arrange for it to be paid 
to charity or anything else of Mr As choice it agrees to. So while I note and respect 
Mr As reasons for saying he cant accept an interest award, it must necessarily still 
form part of what I think is fair and reasonable compensation. 
Share In should provide details of the calculation to Mr A in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
NameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Interest
The money 
Mr A 
contributed 
to the SPVNo longer in 
force8% simple Date of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple 
interest on 
any loss from 
the end date 
to the date of 
settlement
 
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date including dividends.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return using the benchmark. 
Mr As investment was paid in stages. Any additional sums paid into the investment should 
be added to the fair value calculation from the point in time when they were actually paid in.
For clarity, I include in these sums the £3,000 Mr A paid in September 2020. While this 
wasnt a subscription for more shares (and was made after PropTech ceased to be Share 
Ins appointed representative) Im satisfied it was a loss Mr A suffered as a result of Share 
Ins errors and therefore ought to be compensated. Mr A wouldnt have had to make that 
payment had he not invested in X, so I think it should be included in the fair value calculation 
when assessing his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold this complaint and direct Share In Ltd to pay Mr A 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman