DRN-1844757
 
The complaint
Mr K says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him credit card payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
What happened
In 2000 Mr K took out a credit card by postal application. A few weeks later, and following a 
phone with Barclays, he took out PPI. The policy was designed to protect Mr Ks card 
payments in the event he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
The adjudicator ultimately recommended the complaint be upheld. They said there 
wasnt enough evidence to persuade them that the PPI was presented as being optional, so 
they said Mr K should be compensated.
Barclays disagreed saying, among other things, its representative would have made the 
optional nature of the policy clear. The complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to PPI complaints on our website. And Ive taken into account whats relevant here in 
deciding Mr Ks complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays needed to make it clear to Mr K that he had a choice about PPI  that is, make it 
clear that it was an optional and separate product from the credit card hed taken out.
Mr K took out his credit card by postal application. And Barclays has provided us with a 
copy of the application, which indicates Mr K didnt agree to take PPI. Shortly after Mr K 
received his approved credit card, a phone conversation took place between Barclays and 
Mr K.
Its not clear what type of call this was  whether it was an outbound or an inbound call. 
In any event, Barclays doesnt have a call recording and it also hasnt got a call 
script.  Barclays says its adviser would have made sure Mr K wanted to take out PPI and 
would have asked him the confirmation question. But Barclays hasnt got any evidence to 
support what it says happened. Im mindful of the passage of time. But, in this particular 
case, Im not persuaded I can fairly say its more likely than not that Mr K was given a clear 
choice about PPI.
Mr Ks credit card application made reference to PPI, but that was a few weeks before the 
call so it likely wouldnt have been in his mind. And then shortly after submitting his 
application (most likely soon after he received his credit card) he took out PPI after a phone 
conversation  a conversation which Barclays cannot say how it came about or demonstrate how PPI was introduced, or was meant to be introduced, to Mr K.
So, for the above reasons, and in the circumstances of this case, Im not persuaded I can 
fairly say Mr K was given a clear choice about PPI and that he clearly understood that the 
credit card and PPI were two separate and distinct products. I think Barclays should now put 
things right for Mr K.
Putting things right
Barclays should put Mr K in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A. Barclays should find out how much Mr K would have owed when he closed his credit card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of 
the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr K owe when he closed his 
account and what hed have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr K made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him. It can also deduct any amounts its already paid 
regarding commission and profit share.
B. Barclays should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr K would have 
owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when Barclays works out what Mr K would have owed each month without PPI  Mr K 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, Barclays should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr K paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr K would have 
owed Barclays something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. Barclays should tell Mr K what its done to work out A, B and C.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays 
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint. I require Barclays Bank 
UK PLC to put thing right for him as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman