DRN-3629612
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the service hes received from Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) 
following a claim under his car insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr Rs vehicle was damaged by another vehicle being chased by the 
Police. He arranged for his vehicle to be recovered and made a claim to Aviva, his car 
insurance provider.
Mr Rs car insurance policy entitled him to a courtesy car in certain circumstances, however 
this wasnt provided. Mr R had to make a number of calls to Aviva, the repair agent 
appointed by Aviva, the repairing garage, and a hire car company to try and obtain a 
temporary vehicle and to try to resolve matters.
Ultimately Mr R was given a hire car for two days by Aviva, but this wasnt until he had made 
a complaint, his car had been written off and after he had been without the use of a vehicle 
for the period he most needed it. During the course of the claim Mr R complained to Aviva, 
and they offered a total of £125 compensation. Mr R was unhappy with this and approached 
this service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. He recognised Aviva had 
already offered £125 for the delay in arranging an alternative vehicle. But he said there was 
significant impact and inconvenience to Mr R as a result of the delays and service hed 
received, so he recommended Aviva pay a further £150 compensation.
Aviva didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont intend on commenting individually on every event or action that occurred throughout. I 
dont mean this as a discourtesy to either party, but both parties are already aware of what 
has happened, and it isnt disputed. And Aviva accepts there have been service failings, 
which is why they offered compensation. 
Instead, Ill focus on what I believe is important in reaching a decision which is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And Ill reference some of the key things 
that happened. Having said that though, Id like to reassure both parties that Ive considered 
all the information theyve provided when reaching my final decision.
Its clear that things didnt go in line with Mr Rs reasonable expectations, and Aviva offered 
a total of £125 compensation for what happened. I need to decide whether thats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr Rs policy entitles him to:
Courtesy car  standard cover
A courtesy car is provided subject to availability to reduce your inconvenience and 
where possible ensure you remain mobile. It is not intended to be an exact 
replacement for your car. All courtesy cars have comprehensive cover under your 
policy for the period the courtesy car is provided.
1. A courtesy car will only be provided when your claim has been accepted and 
your car is repairable, and is being repaired by our approved repairer 
network.
2. A courtesy car is typically a small three door hatchback car with an engine 
size of 1 litre.
3. If your car is immobile or unroadworthy we aim to provide a courtesy car 
within one working day (however if an incident occurs during a weekend or 
bank holiday, it may not be possible to provide a courtesy car until the 
following normal working day).
When Mr R first made a claim following the accident, it was believed the claim would be non-
fault and he was directed to a credit hire company by Aviva, as this would give him a 
temporary vehicle similar to his own, rather than the standard basic courtesy car under his 
insurance policy. But the credit hire company werent able to provide a hire car due to the 
unique circumstances which resulted in Mr Rs car being damaged by the third party, and the 
likelihood of them obtaining recovery from the third party.
As a car wasnt being provided under credit hire, Mr Rs policy shouldve covered him for a 
courtesy car as outlined above, as his vehicle was due to be repaired by Avivas repair 
network. However, there were issues with the repairer being able to provide a courtesy car, 
and there was some disagreement and confusion between them and Aviva about 
outsourcing this when the repairer was unable to provide one.
But having reviewed things it seems to be accepted by all parties that Mr R was caught in 
the middle of this dispute and confusion between Aviva, the repair network and the repairing 
garage. 
Mr R had to make a significant number of telephone calls to all the different parties involved 
to try to understand what was happening with his claim and to obtain a courtesy car. But it 
does appear from the calls that the communication between Aviva, and its appointed parties 
wasnt clear either, which then resulted in conflicting information being given to Mr R about 
what was happening, if and when he would get a courtesy car, and who would be providing 
it.But what does come through clearly in the various calls Ive listened to, is that Mr R stressed 
the urgency of having a vehicle whilst his car was with the repairing agent and he was 
otherwise immobile. Mr R was struggling to get to work, and having to take multiple buses on 
each journey, and taxis on occasion too. Mr R also made it clear he was due to go on 
holiday and needed a vehicle before this, so he could run errands and pick up items 
essential for his holiday, and on his return so he could get to work. 
However, Mr R wasnt provided with a courtesy car from the repairing agent, despite 
entitlement under his policy. As a result, Aviva said theyd provide a hire car for the 
remaining days before Mr R was due to go away. Mr R visited the hire car company based 
on Avivas advice and the booking theyd said theyd arranged, but he was told this hadnt 
been arranged by Aviva, so he was unable to collect a hire car. This was an unnecessary 
journey, and despite Mr R being told a car would be there for him, this wasnt the case.
During the period Mr R was away, he also had to contact Aviva and their various agents 
several times to find out what would be happening on his return. This included whether he 
would have a courtesy vehicle, and what was happening with his damaged car  whether it 
would be repaired or written off  which was relevant to whether he was entitled to a 
courtesy car under his policy (although hed not been given one so far despite being entitled 
to it), or if that entitlement would cease if and when his vehicle was written off. But even 
though Mr R made a number of calls, this still wasnt clear and conflicting information was 
given to him, leaving him in a position of uncertainty despite making Aviva aware multiple 
times of the need for a vehicle  which he was entitled to.
I recognise Aviva has offered Mr R £125 compensation, but I dont think thats sufficient for 
the distress and inconvenience hes been caused here.
Whilst Ive not commented individually on every event or interaction Mr R had with Aviva or 
the different parties appointed by them, Ive taken this and all the telephone conversations 
provided, of which there are a large number, into account when reaching my decision. 
Mr R had to make many calls to everyone involved to try and understand what was 
happening, and he also had to make multiple calls from abroad on holiday to try and resolve 
matters and ensure he had a vehicle on his return. 
Mr R spent a significant period of time on the telephone, explaining what had happened and 
trying to get an answer about next steps. But Aviva and the various agents they appointed 
gave conflicting messages, which added to the confusion. And it does seem that in the early 
stages the repairer said they wouldnt have taken on the repairs if Aviva had made it clear 
they may need to outsource a replacement vehicle if they couldnt provide one. But during 
this, Mr R was stuck in the middle, and passed between the different parties involved without 
clear next steps being given  on a number of occasions.
Mr R wouldnt have needed a vehicle for the period he was away on holiday, and he actively 
made suggestions around his time away about returning and re-picking up a car if it was 
easier for the repairing garage to try and resolve the issue with Aviva, and the repair agents. 
But ultimately, he didnt receive a courtesy car despite being entitled to one under his policy. 
Aviva did eventually provide a hire car but only for two days and this wasnt until his return 
from holiday and after his vehicle was written off. This was only given when Aviva later 
agreed as part of reviewing his complaint and what had happened.
Our investigator recommended Aviva pay a further £150 compensation in addition to the 
£125 already offered, and having taken everything into account, I think thats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances for the inconvenience and distress caused to Mr R here.Mr R has provided this service with information in support of taxi journeys he had to take and 
requested reimbursement of these in addition to the compensation recommended by the 
investigator. But Im satisfied the additional £150 Im directing Aviva to compensate Mr R 
(along with the £125 hes already been offered by Aviva) is sufficient to take these costs into 
account as part of that total amount.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to:
In addition to the £125 compensation already offered, pay Mr R a further £150 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman