The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with how Nationwide Building Society sold and administered their 
home insurance policy. 
What happened
Many years ago, Mr and Mrs L took out home buildings insurance alongside a mortgage with 
Nationwide. They had a separate contents insurance policy. In 2008, Nationwide suggested 
that if Mr and Mrs L combined their buildings and contents insurance policies into one policy, 
they would pay less overall. Mr and Mrs L agreed to do this, so a new buildings and contents 
insurance policy was set up for them. 
Mr and Mrs L say they understood that Nationwide promotes itself on not penalising existing 
members to favour newer ones, and that they would be getting the best deal on their home 
insurance. However, in 2018, they logged into their Nationwide account online and found 
that they could obtain home insurance for much less. At this point they complained to 
Nationwide.
We looked at a complaint about the price of the policy under a separate complaint reference, 
because the insurer was responsible for setting the price. This complaint is about how 
Nationwide sold and administered the policy.
Our investigator said the sale of the policy was too long ago for us to be able to look at, as 
the sale was more than six years ago. And Mr and Mrs L shouldve been in a position to 
identify whether Nationwide had misrepresented the savings they could achieve shortly after 
the sale which meant that time limit wasnt extended. So, Mr and Mrs L only had until 2014 
to complain about the sale and were also out of time to complaint about the renewals up to 
2011. Because of this, our investigator looked at Nationwides administration of the policy 
from 2012 onwards, as this was less than six years before Mr and Mrs L complained. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think there was 
enough evidence to say that Nationwide had told Mr and Mrs L that they were getting the 
best price in the market. Or that it had treated them unfairly or caused them a financial loss. 
Mr and Mrs L disagreed, so Ive been asked to make a decision on the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs L will be disappointed 
with this, and I'll explain my reasons. 
DRN-2005946I agree with our investigator that some aspects of this complaint have been referred to us out 
of time. So I won't comment on the initial sale of the policy - but I have looked at what 
happened during the renewals, as it's not clear to me that Mr and Mrs L would've realised 
something was wrong until they got the new quote in 2018.
Mr and Mrs L's complaint is largely about their expectations of the service provided by 
Nationwide and that, in their view, it has failed to live up to those expectations. I appreciate 
that, as a building society, Nationwide does advertise what it says are the benefits of being a 
member, compared to being a customer of a bank that has shareholders. So, I can 
understand why Mr and Mrs L may have high expectations for the service it provides. 
Mr and Mrs L thought Nationwide was providing insurance at the best price on the market. 
But I've not seen anything that makes me think that Nationwide had promised to do this. I've 
looked at the available renewal invitations sent to Mr and Mrs L (which go as far back as 
2004), and there's nothing to suggest Nationwide would ensure they got the best price on 
the market.
The earlier renewal letters say that Mr and Mrs L should review their insurance requirements 
on a regular basis and that Nationwide has not provided any advice on whether the policy 
continues to meet their insurance requirements. Later ones describe the cover as "great", 
but don't suggest that is in reference to the price other than that it doesn't cost more to pay 
monthly rather than annually. It seems the claim to greatness was more about having the 
ability to customise the policy.
I know that Mr and Mrs L obtained a policy from Nationwide in 2018 for considerably less 
than they were quoted in their renewal invitation. They did this by logging onto their online 
account and obtaining a quote which included an existing member discount. Given their 
expectations, I can understand why this upset them and prompted them to complain. But the 
responsibility for the price charged lies with the insurer, not Nationwide. And we've already 
considered a separate complaint about that issue under a different complaint reference. 
Overall, I don't think Nationwide has treated Mr and Mrs L unfairly with regards the 
administration of their home insurance. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I've decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman