DRN-2229253
The complaint
Mr Y has complained that his parents coerced him into entering into a joint buy-to-let (BTL) 
mortgage with UCB Home Loans Corporation Ltd. 
The mortgage was taken out in the joint names of Mr Y and his parents (who Ill call Mrs Y 
and Mr Y1). Although all three parties have joined to bring this complaint the concerns relate 
just to Mr Y and hes the one weve dealt with throughout.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
Its not at all unusual for an application to have a borrower that doesnt have their own 
income. For example, mortgage applications where there are two borrowers  a co-habiting 
couple  and one of them is a stay-at-home parent. It could be discriminatory to refuse to 
allow that person onto the mortgage just because the couple have chosen for one of the 
parties to remain at home. Applications are generally looked at holistically in terms of 
income. So long as the parties between them pass the affordability assessment then it 
doesnt matter how that income is apportioned amongst the parties.
The fact Mr Y was a student without his own income doesnt mean this mortgage shouldnt 
have been agreed. Its not unusual to see situations where parents take out a mortgage with 
their child to give their child help to get onto the property ladder at a time where that child 
couldnt do so on their own.
Mr Y has asked what would have happened if his parents had died. Firstly, the rental income 
is supposed to be more than the monthly mortgage payments, that how BTL mortgages 
should work; theyre supposed to be self-funding. If that had been the case then the tenants 
would just carry on paying their rent, and then that money would pay the mortgage. And 
secondly thats why life assurance should generally be taken out alongside a joint mortgage; 
if a borrower dies the life assurance pays off the debt either in full or in part.
Where a mortgage application is made through a third-party intermediary, such as an IFA, 
theres no obligation on the part of the lender to replicate the role of the IFA. At the time this 
BTL mortgage was sold, the responsibility for any advice that may have been given lay with 
the IFA rather than with the lender.
The lender had a duty to lend responsibly which, generally speaking, it could at the time 
discharge by relying on the information supplied by the IFA. If, in UCBs commercial 
judgement, it was satisfied with the information provided by the IFA about the customers 
circumstances it was within its rights to do so. There was no regulatory requirement at that 
time for it to validate the information independently. 
The regulatory requirements for mortgage lending have changed substantially over the last 
few years. But I can only consider this complaint based on the regulations and normal 
industry practice at the time, and without the use of hindsight or the latest rules.
Mr Y1, Mrs Y and Mr Y appointed an IFA to act as their agent. The IFAs job was then to 
search the market to find a suitable mortgage for them. The IFA wasnt selling the mortgage 
on behalf of UCB; it was arranging a mortgage (that just happened to be with UCB, but could 
have been with a different lender) for Mr Y1, Mrs Y and Mr Y. The responsibility for the 
suitability of that mortgage rests with the IFA, not with UCB.
When an application such as this was introduced by an IFA the lender wouldnt normally 
have any direct contact with the borrower(s). Theres nothing about this application that 
would have raised any concerns with UCB such that it would have thought Mr Y was 
coerced into this application or that he didnt understand it. It was the role of the IFA and the 
independent legal representative appointed by the borrowers to ensure those borrowers 
understood the contract they were entering into, and that they were entering into it willingly.
Mr Y has said that UCB didnt write to him separately, including about the arrears. But it 
didnt need to. Unless Mr Y had contacted UCB with his own separate correspondence 
address and notifying UCB that he was in dispute with his parents about the situation then 
UCB could write to the three of them jointly at one correspondence address. Theyd be seen 
as acting as a unit unless UCB was told that relationship had broken down. UCB cant know 
unless it is told.
Mr Y has said he made a fair offer to get the property back in his control. He may consider it 
was a fair offer but that doesnt mean UCB had to agree to it and hand the property back. 
The property was taken under the control of a Receiver and then later taken into possession 
and sold. UCB set out the terms under which it was willing to return the property and that 
was that the debt had to be reduced down immediately to the amount of the original 
mortgage that had been lent. It wasnt willing to de-instruct the Receiver for a partial lump 
sum and then a twelve-month payment arrangement for the rest. That was UCBs decision to 
make under the terms of the contract, as it was within its rights to demand the whole 
mortgage be repaid at that point, not just the surplus.
I understand the property was sold for a shortfall and Mr Y1 and Mrs Y have either gone 
bankrupt or are intending to. Im sorry to hear about the situation Mr Ys parents have left 
him in, and I can see why he thinks it is unfair that he has been left with this debt alone. Mr Y 
has asked whether UCB can request the entire shortfall from him when he was only one of 
three borrowers, and Im sorry to tell him that it can. The mortgage contract he entered into 
was that he and his parents were each jointly and severally liable for the entire debt. That 
means that UCB has the right to request the full amount from just one of the parties, it 
doesnt apportion any amount owing across the three of them.
As it hasnt done anything wrong I cant order UCB to do anything here. I would encourage 
Mr Y to get in touch with UCB to discuss what his options are, and he can also obtain free 
debt advice from providers such as Step Change or Citizens Advice who may be able to 
guide him through the process of dealing with the UCB debt.Whilst Ive a great deal of sympathy for the situation Mr Y is in, I simply cant uphold this 
complaint however much he may want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs Y, Mr Y and Mr Y to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman