DRN-3865851
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service he received from TNW Financial Services Ltd (TNW). 
Specifically, he says he was given incorrect information about his tax liability following advice 
to start a personal pension plan. As a result, he owed substantially more income tax than he 
was expecting.
What happened
On 29 November 2022 I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In it I set out the 
background to this complaint as follows:
Mr H and his wife brought their complaint to our service jointly, but as they belong to 
separate pension plans their complaints have been considered separately. However, the 
background to their respective complaints is the same as the advice was provided at the 
same time. 
Mr H jointly runs a business with his wife. Mr and Mrs Hs accountant explained to them that 
as a result of a successful trading year in 2020/2021 each had exceeded the income limit for 
the Personal Allowance and consequently would face a higher tax bill. It was suggested that 
to mitigate this, each could contribute to a personal pension plan. The accountant referred 
them to TNW to pursue this option further. 
Mr and Mrs H spoke to a TNW adviser on 17 March 2021. At this time Mr and Mrs H 
explained that they had no pension provision and wanted to try and make a pension 
contribution in that tax year if at all possible. Two days later TNW spoke with Mr and Mrs Hs 
accountant. Notes following that meeting suggest they discussed the size of the pension 
contribution and it was agreed that Mr and Mrs H should each maximise that years 
allowance of £40,000 gross.
TNW met with Mr and Mrs H via Zoom on 22 March 2021. At this time, the fact find for both 
was updated and the adviser discussed their attitude to investment risk. A document titled 
Benefits of a Pension Contribution was also presented showing the impact of a pension 
contribution on taxable income. On 23 March 2021 Mr and Mrs H confirmed they wanted to 
proceed with a £40,000 gross contribution each as long as it could take place in that tax 
year. 
TNW provided Mr and Mrs H with its formal report and recommendations on 25 March 2021. 
This report set out the pension provider and funds TNW recommended Mr and Mrs H invest 
their contributions with. Mr and Mrs H proceeded with the recommendations and each 
contributed £32,000 net (£40,000 gross) to a personal pension plan. 
In December 2021 Mr and Mrs H complained to TNW that they were given the wrong figures 
regarding their tax liability and as a result their tax bill was substantially higher than they 
were led to believe. They said had they been given accurate figures they probably wouldnt 
have invested so much money. 
TNW didnt uphold the complaint and so Mr and Mrs H referred the matter to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into things but concluded this wasnt a complaint we could 
help with as tax mitigation isnt a regulated activity. Mr and Mrs H responded that they 
werent complaining about the amount of tax they owed, but rather the information they were 
given by TNW regarding the tax they would have to pay following the pension contribution. 
The investigator remained of the view that this wasnt a complaint we could look at, so 
Mr and Mrs H asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Although the advice was given to Mr and Mrs H at the same time as part of the same advice 
process, each were sold separate pension plans, so weve investigated their complaints 
separately. This decision relates solely to Mr Hs complaint.
The complaint was then passed to me. I first considered whether the Ombudsman Service 
had authority to look into this complaint and concluded that we did. So I issued a provisional 
decision which explained that Mr Hs complaint is about the information he was given about 
the tax he would owe as part of regulated advice to start a personal pension plan. The 
complaint is therefore ancillary to a regulated activity and so is something we can look at. 
I then went on to consider the merits of Mr Hs complaint, setting out my findings as follows: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I have taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in 
other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. 
It is also important to note that this service isnt intended to regulate or punish businesses for 
their conduct  that is the role of the FCA as the industry regulator. Instead, the Financial 
Ombudsman looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a business. In 
order to uphold a complaint I would need to find that something has gone wrong and that a 
consumer has lost out as a result. Simply put, this means that even if I consider that a 
business made a mistake, I also need to conclude that the consumer suffered a loss, 
financial or non-financial, as a result. I would then ask the business to put things right by 
placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would have been if the 
problem hadnt occurred.
In this case, Mr H said that TNW provided him with incorrect information about what income 
tax he would owe after contributing £40,000 gross to a personal pension plan. Based on 
what hes said, it seems Mr H expected to owe tax around the amount show on the Benefits 
and Pension Contribution document. TNW admit that it made a mistake on this document 
when it incorrectly defaulted to showing an employers pension contribution of £40,000 
rather than a personal contribution. TNW apologised for this mistake, but it explained that 
this document wasnt meant to be a definitive statement regarding Mr Hs tax burden. Rather 
it was meant to illustrate the different tax positions with and without a pension contribution. It 
said the scope of its advice was limited to identifying a suitable plan to accommodate a lump 
sum contribution of £40,000 gross. And Mr H employed an accountant to deal with his 
personal tax matters, so it didnt consider that there were grounds to uphold the complaint. 
Having reviewed all of the evidence and arguments provided by the parties, I am currently 
minded to agree. I know this will be disappointing to Mr H, but I dont intend to uphold this 
complaint. Mr H engaged TNW to provide a recommendation on an appropriate pension provider and 
investments for his pension contribution. Pension plans are considered to be one of the most 
tax efficient ways to save for retirement, as contributions to these arrangements receive tax 
relief (an uplift to what is contributed) and when benefits are taken, favourable tax rules 
apply (for example, typically 25% of pension benefits can be taken tax-free).
From the evidence Ive seen, the scope of TNWs advice did not include calculating the 
amount of income tax Mr H would owe following the pension contribution.  If it was, I would 
expect this to be discussed in the Report and Recommendation setting out the advice. But 
notably, the Report and Recommendation does not even reference the Benefits of a 
Pension Contribution nor does it discuss its contents. The recommendation does not 
address the amount of tax Mr H would pay, nor does it appear to be based on the figures 
contained in the Benefits of a Pension Contribution. Critically, the advice is limited to the 
appropriate pension provider and investments. It does not suggest that Mr H should 
contribute £40,000 gross so that hed owe a precise amount of income tax. The size of the 
pension contribution was decided, in consultation with his accountant, because it was the 
maximum amount he could contribute in the tax year and receive tax relief. And the Report 
and Recommendation makes it clear that it is based on a correct contribution amount of 
£32,000 net, and not the inaccurate figures contained in the Benefits of a Pension 
Contribution document.
And although Mr H said he probably would have contributed less if hed been given the 
correct information, Im not persuaded that the amount he contributed was dependent on 
these figures. Furthermore, had he contributed less than £40,000 gross his tax liability would 
have increased. 
Mr H said he would like a partial refund of fees because of this mistake. But I dont see that 
any refund is required. TNW was hired to facilitate a lump sum contribution to a personal 
pension plan. This happened and Mr H has not complained about this advice.  As explained, 
the advice was not conditioned on the amount of tax savings; Mr H was simply looking to 
maximise savings. I consider the advice TNW provided met this objective. The fees it 
charged were for work performed to provide the advice along with the actions TNW took to 
implement its recommendations.
I recognise Mr Hs strength of feeling on this and I know that he will be disappointed. But Ive 
considered all his points very carefully and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont intend to 
ask TNW to do anything further. 
My provisional decision 
For the reasons given above, this complaint is one that we can consider. And having done 
so, Im not intending to uphold it.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional findings. 
TNW didnt provide any further comments. Mr H responded reiterating why the complaint 
should be upheld, including that TNW breached its contract with him, but no further 
substantive information was provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As no substantive comments were provided by either party in response to my provisional 
findings, I see no reason to depart from them. I do appreciate Mr H will be disappointed, but 
as I explained in my provisional decision, TNW provided him with the service it agreed to 
provide. The figures relating to the amount of tax that would be owed were illustrative only 
and not central to the advice and facilitation of a lump sum pension contribution. And I 
consider that Mr H would have contributed the same amount to the personal pension plan 
even if he was told his tax liability at the end of the year would be higher. 
As such, Ive concluded that TNW hasnt been unfair or unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman