DRN-3342906
The complaint
Ms L has complained that Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) (Agria) unreasonably refused 
to pay her claim under her pet policy.
What happened
Ms L made a claim on 3 September 2021 as her dog required a caesarean section to deliver 
her puppies. This would have been this dogs second caesarean. Agria, as per normal, 
asked to see all the vet history not just from her current vet but also her previous vet who 
dealt with the first caesarean. 
Because the medical need for the caesarean was exactly the same reason for the first 
caesarean, Agria said that that medical need (as against just needing another caesarean for 
a different medical need) was classed as a pre-existing condition and therefore Ms Ls claim 
for the caesarean couldnt be paid. Agria also noted her previous vet has advised that her 
dog should be spayed rather than to endure another pregnancy.
 
Ms L was of the view that complications during whelping wasnt a pre-existing condition and 
even though her dog had the same issue previously during whelping, she didnt consider it 
could be pre-existing because the policy provided cover for a second caesarean.
 
So, she brought her complaint to us. The investigator didnt think Agria has done anything 
wrong in refusing to pay her claim. Ms L disagreed so her complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
There are several reasons why a dog might need a caesarean, dystocia, trauma or infection. 
In Ms Ls case, the reason in both instances for a caesarean was that the water bags were 
delivered but the puppy didnt follow.  
In the schedule to Ms Ls policy, for the cover from 8 March 2021 to 7 March 2022, it says 
the following: 
Your insurance does not provide cover for anything in your Pet's medical history 
including any illness, injury or sign that your Pet was unwell that:
happened before the insurance starts;
happens again, including if it happens in other areas of your pet's body, or;
is caused by or results from any of these illnesses, injuries or signs of being 
unwell. 
In the vet history it says the following for the first pregnancy so before this policy started:
Started some pushing at 8 am this morning. 2 water bags came out no puppies. one
burst and one full on chatting with owner. advise to make a small hole in this one and 
wait until 11.30 if contractions have not recommenced then present at surgery for 
oxytocin inj. if no movements after 1 hr then c section required. 1st litter.
In the vet history for the second pregnancy, it says the following:
Owner phoned this morning to say [name of dog] had been in labour since 5.30am 
and a birthing sack was born but no puppy - asked to come down for a C section at 
8.30. [Name of dog] has already had one C-section before.
So, its clear the reason the second caesarean was required was for precisely the same 
difficulty as Ms Ls dog encountered in her first pregnancy. Therefore, because Ms Ls dog 
presented with exactly the same medical reason for the second caesarean, that medical 
reason is classed as a pre-existing condition because it had first occurred before this policy 
began. Had Ms Ls dog presented with a different medical reason for needing a second 
caesarean, for example an infection, then it wouldnt have been classed as a pre-existing 
condition as Ms Ls dog didnt have a previous pregnancy requiring a caesarean from any 
infection. 
This policy in common with almost all other pet policies doesnt want to cover anything that 
occurred previously in the dogs vet history. This isnt unusual in pet policies and theres 
nothing wrong with any insurer deciding what they do want to cover and what they dont. It 
says the following:
We will not pay 

2. Costs resulting from a pre-existing illness or injury and anything included in the
exclusions and special conditions shown on your Schedule of Insurance.
And the policy defines a pre-existing condition as follows: 
Pre-existing Illness or Injury
An injury that happened, or an illness or behavioural disorder that first 
showed clinical signs before your policy started; or,
an injury or illness that is the same as, or has the same diagnosis or clinical 
signs as an injury, illness or clinical sign your pet had before your policy 
started; or
an injury or illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from, an injury, 
illness or clinical sign your pet had before your policy started; 
no matter where the injury, illness or clinical sign(s) are noticed or happen in, or 
on, your pet's body. This is in addition to any exclusions and special conditions 
shown on your Schedule of Insurance.
The vet history cleared shows that for whatever reason, whether it was the breed of the dog 
or the size of male dog, Ms Ls dog popped out the water sacs but not the puppies and in 
both instances the vet recommended a caesarean section. Consequently, I dont consider 
Agria did anything wrong in classing the reason why Ms Ls dog needed a caesarean section 
again, was a pre-existing issue. 
Pet policies are sold on an unadvised basis; therefore, it was for Ms L to ensure this policy 
was suitable for her needs. There is duty on pet insurers, including Agria to provide any advice to Ms L on which policy to choose. I can see her previous vet recommended spaying 
after the first caesarean. Whilst I have no evidence, this could have been because this issue 
was likely to happen again if her dog was pregnant. 
Regardless, I see no misrepresentation by Agria in its policy provisions as the extent of the 
cover and cover limitations are clearly set out as I detailed above. It will cover the costs of 
two caesareans but not if the reason for the medical need for a caesarean is something 
which occurred before the policy started. And clearly this is the case here, since Ms Ls dog 
presented with exactly the same issue the second time, as she did the first. However, for the 
first caesarean, since Agria was not insuring Ms Ls dog, consequently the reason for 
requiring the second caesarean was a pre-existing condition since it was exactly the same 
reason as the first one. As I said above, had Ms Ls dog presented with a different medical 
reason for requiring a caesarean then there was no reason for Agria not to cover the costs of 
this second caesarean. 
My final decision
 So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman