DRN-1779259
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA Insurance UK PLC have declined travel insurance to him and his 
wife on the basis of their age. 
The policy is the name of Mr S but Mrs S is an insured person under the policy. 
What happened
Mr S has had annual multi-trip travel insurance with AXA for a number of years. Mr S 
explained that he receives a letter from AXA on a yearly basis inviting him to contact it for a 
new quote and to renew the cover for another year.
When Mr S contacted AXA in 2019 to renew his travel insurance he was advised that it was 
unable to offer him cover since he would be 75 the following month and his wife had already 
turned 75. 
Mr and Mrs S feel that AXA have discriminated against them because of their age and that it 
is in breach of the Equality Act 2010. AXA disagrees. It says its entitled to make a 
commercial decision to apply an age limit to the policy based on its risk appetite. AXA also 
says that the risk of someone making a claim on their travel insurance policy increases once 
they reach 75. Mr S requested details of AXAs risk assessment as he feels he should be 
able to have access to this. 
AXA have advised that it is unable to provide Mr S with the risk assessment since it is 
commercially sensitive information. AXA have also said that its decision to decline to cover 
Mr and Mrs S is based on its own underwriting criteria and risk assessments. AXA dont 
believe that it is in breach of the Equality Act.
Our investigator appreciated Mr Ss frustration that AXA had refused to provide him and Mrs 
S with travel insurance due to their age but felt that AXA had acted fairly and in line with its 
terms and conditions when it declined the cover. 
Mr S didnt agree with this view and asked for his complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman 
for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr and Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Travel insurance companies look at things like the risk of having to cancel, or cut short, a 
holiday through illness, covering medical treatment abroad, and having to repatriate 
beneficiaries of the policy home. It is not uncommon for insurers to give different weighting to 
certain risks and this will be considered as part of its underwriting criteria.
The terms and conditions of this policy say if annual multi trip cover is selected this policy is 
not available to anyone aged 75 and over 
AXA are clear in their policy that it does not cover people who are aged 75 years and older. 
Mr S has said that AXA denying cover amounts to age discrimination. Its not our role to say 
whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the Courts. Our role is to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So although it would be for the 
Courts to say whether Mr and Mrs S have been discriminated against because of his age 
under the Equality Act I have thought about what the Court might be likely to conclude since 
it is relevant when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case. 
There is an exception in the Equality Act for providing financial services such as travel 
insurance. The law is quite detailed on this issue but essentially it means that a bank (or, in 
this case, insurance provider) can continue to use age as a factor in designing, pricing, and 
offering its insurance products provided that they carry out a risk assessment involving age, 
and that its based on relevant information from a source its reasonable to rely on. 
I have seen evidence that satisfies me that AXA did this however I am unable to share this 
for reasons explained below. Its not uncommon for travel insurance policies to have upper 
age limits included in their policies  which apply to new and existing customers. Mr S has 
requested a copy of AXAs risk assessment as he believes that he is entitled to a copy. Im 
persuaded a Court would likely find that the statistical data put forward by AXA is from a 
source which is reasonable for it to rely on. And overall, I dont think its decision not to 
provide cover to those who reach 75 is unfair or unreasonable. Particularly, given my 
experience, that its not uncommon for some travel insurance policies to have upper age 
limits included in their policies  which apply to new and existing customers. AXA have said 
that the document is commercially sensitive and I dont see that theres any specific reason 
for me to require it to disclose the assessment to Mr S. Again I dont believe AXA are acting 
unfairly in doing this. 
I can see that AXA sent a letter to Mr S regarding his renewal in 2019 but it would still have 
to assess his eligibility against their criteria and I dont believe that a renewal reminder 
amounts to a guarantee that cover will be provided.    
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable I am required to have regard to the specific 
circumstances that Mr and Mrs S found themselves in. AXA have declined to offer them 
travel insurance however I am aware that there are a number of insurers who do offer 
insurance to those over 75 and indeed Mr and Mrs S have taken out cover with another 
provider. 
So whilst I do empathise with Mr and Mrs S here I havent found that AXA acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when it declined to offer cover to them.  I appreciate that this may not be the 
outcome Mr and Mrs S was hoping for but I hope that I have explained why I dont think AXA 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably in this matter. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint for the reasons outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman