DRN-3193702
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that the terms in their Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (LBGI) 
home insurance policy are misleading and LBGI unfairly declined their claim in part.
References to Mr T or Mrs T, will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of LBGI involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to LBGI.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ts home was broken in to whilst they were out shopping. A number of items 
were stolen including seven sovereign coins.
Mr and Mrs T made a claim to LBGI on their home insurance contents policy. 
They submitted a list of the items that had been stolen. LBGI informed Mr and Mrs T that 
they had exceeded the policy limit for high-risk items and so it was unable to settle their 
claim in full. 
Mr and Mrs T said the policy limits were misleading and they should be covered as their 
policy was LBGIs ultimate policy, with unlimited sums insured cover. LBGI said that there 
are inner limits on this policy.
LBGI paid out the maximum allowed for high-risk items under the terms of the policy, but this 
still left Mr and Mrs T with a shortfall in the value of the items that had been stolen.
 
Mr and Mrs T said that their stolen sovereign coins should be considered under the Money 
section of their policy. LBGI didnt agree and said they were high value items and not 
considered as Money under the terms of the policy.
As Mr T was not happy with LBGI he brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the case and didnt agree that LBGI were not clear about the 
limits in the policy but recommended that LBGI pay the claim for the sovereign coins under 
the Money section limits.
LBGI accepted this and said that it would consider the sovereign coins under the Money 
section limits at face value of the sovereign coins and so it offered to pay £5.50 for these 
items in total. 
Our investigator decided that LBGIs offer to settle the claim for the sovereign coins was in 
line with the policy terms and conditions.
As Mr T is unhappy with our investigators view the case has been brought to me for a final 
decision to be made.
In my provisional decision I said 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two separate parts of this complaint and I shall respond to them separately as 
follows.
The policy terms
Mr T says that as he had taken out LBGIs ultimate insurance policy he thought he had 
unlimited cover. This misunderstanding had led him to be under insured. He complains that 
the policy is misleading.
I can see within the insurance invitation letter sent to Mr and Mrs T there is instruction on 
What you need to do now and under this heading it says  Please read each item listed 
below to check that we hold the correct information and that the policy is right for you.
It then lists the following - Insurance Statement, How our policy meets your needs, Policy 
schedule, Insurance policy Information document, Policy booklet, Important information 
about our insurance services and My personal data and Lloyds banking group. All of these 
documents were included within the letter.
After review of the policy documents I saw that it does refer to an unlimited sum insured, but 
it also says that inner limits apply. These inner limits are clearly documented within the policy 
schedule.
I believe the information provided to Mr and Mrs T by LBGI was clear and uncomplicated. I 
do not agree that the policy wasnt clear and do not uphold this part of their complaint.
Sovereign coins
In LBGIs initial response to Mr Ts complaint that the stolen sovereign coins should be   
considered under the Money criteria of his policy because they are legal tender, it said 
They are not cash or currency notes so whist they are legal tender they cannot be 
considered as money. Whilst I appreciate that bullion dealers disagree with our definition on 
money this is the definition set by our underwriters of the policy. They can only be 
considered as high-risk items due to being collectable items.
After our investigator gave their view LBGI agreed it would accept the claim under the 
money section of the policy at face value of the sovereign coins.
LBGI say that the stolen sovereign coins have a total face value of £5.50. It says that 
sovereign coins dont have a face value recorded on the actual coin, but a sovereign coin is 
considered to be worth £1 in British currency. 
Mr T disagrees and says the true value of a sovereign coin is judged by the weight in gold.
I can see in the evidence provided that lots of reseach has been undertaken by both Mr T 
and LBGI around the definition of a sovereign coin and its value, and this research has been 
undertaken with a number of bonafide experts.
None of this research helped Mr T and LBGI reach a mutual agreement on this claim. In Mr and Mrs Ts policy documentation I have seen that it defines high-risk items and 
Money as follows
High-risk items
Audio, video and computer equipment  televisions, computers and their accessories,
laptops, electronic tablets and readers, mobile phones, media players (e.g. stereo 
systems), recorders and receivers, games consoles, microscopes, telescopes, musical 
instruments, cameras and photographic equipment.
Collections  items valuable because they are part of a collection or set, including but not 
limited to physical media (e.g. vinyl, discs, tapes), stamps, books, coins or medals.
Furs, jewellery and items containing precious metals or precious stones.
Antiques, rare or unusual articles and works of art including pictures, paintings and 
photographs.
Watches and clocks
Money 
Cash, currency notes, bank notes, money orders, bankers drafts and current postage 
stamps, cheques, savings and trading stamps, savings certificates and savings bonds, 
luncheon vouchers, gift cards, gift vouchers, electronic cash pre-payment cards, 
travellers cheques, travel tickets and vouchers, season tickets and phonecards, all held 
for social and domestic purposes.
The items listed under high-risk items will have a variable value that will depend on the 
individual item  size, condition, age, etc.
The items listed under Money have a definite face value. That value is fixed.
Therefore I think that LBGIs offer to cover the sovereign coins at the face value of the coins 
under the money section of Mr Ts policy is not possible as there is no face value on them.
For LBGI to accept the value of the sovereign coins as being determined by its gold content, 
as Mr T wants, then I think it is fair for it to consider these under the high-risk items section 
of the policy.
I am persuaded that the correct place for the sovereign coins to be considered is under the 
high-risk items section of their policy. 
As the high-risk items section of Mr Ts policy was already paid to the maximum limit I dont 
think LBGI needs to pay over that policy limit for the gold content value of the sovereign 
coins.
I know that Mr and Mrs T will be very disappointed with this outcome as this has been a very 
stressful year for them and I understand that they have lost a lot of money due to the 
burglary, but I do not agree that the terms in their home insurance policy is misleading or 
that LBGI have unfairly dealt with their claim on their home insurance policy for the 
sovereign coins.
For the reasons I have given I intend not to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr T responded to say 
He would no longer continue to contest the point about the wording of the policy. 
He continued to believe that the sovereign value owed to him should be based on the daily gold value.
He agreed that to have a face value the item must have a value stated on it but as the 
value of a sovereign coin can change every day in line with the gold price, it does not 
have a face value stated, but he said it is still legal tender and wants LBGI to accept it as 
that.
He referred to LBGI agreeing to accept the claim under the money section of the policy 
when the Investigators view was given but only at a face value of £1 per coin and that it 
cannot have it both ways. 
LBGI responded to say it had received the provisional decision and it had no further 
information to provide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After looking at the evidence, again along side Mr Ts response to my provisional decision,  I 
dont think he has said anything that requires me to change my decision.
When I have considered all the evidence supplied I agree with Mr T that the sovereign value 
should be based on the daily gold value but I still think that for LBGI to accept the value of 
the sovereign coins as being determined by its gold content, as Mr T wants, then it has to 
consider these under the high-risk items section of the policy.
During his complaint investigation Mr T rejected LBGIs offer to consider the coins at a face 
value of £1 under the money section of his policy. For this reason his complaint came to 
myself for review and as outlined in my provisional decision I did not agree that they should 
be considered in the money section of the policy and think the correct place was under the 
high-risk items section of the policy.
I dont agree that the terms in Mr and Mrs Ts home insurance policy are misleading or that 
LBGI have unfairly dealt with their claim for the sovereign coins.
I understand that this will not be what Mr and Mrs T want to hear as they have gone through 
a very stressful period of time but based on the evidence Ive reviewed I maintain my 
provisional decision and I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman