DRN-3672450
The complaint
Mrs A has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc hasnt paid sufficient 
compensation arising from a remediation exercise in relation to a mortgage account she 
used to have with the bank.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat everything here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mrs A being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mrs A had a mortgage with RBS taken out in 2003 in the joint names of Mrs A and her 
husband, from whom she is now divorced. The mortgage was of a type known as a One 
account. This consolidates the balances of a customers mortgage, current account, 
personal loans and, if desired, savings accounts into one account. Interest is charged on the 
net balance of the account on a daily basis. This has the effect of reducing the average 
balance and the interest charged when compared with a traditional mortgage. Rather than 
savings earning interest, they instead offset the account balance, thus reducing the interest 
charged on the mortgage. 
The initial facility was £120,000 on a capital repayment basis. The mortgage offer says that it 
was over a 20-year term, and that was the period within which the facility had to be repaid. 
The offer also said that Mr and Mrs A were free to use the facility up to its limit throughout 
the term of the mortgage. So this was different from a traditional capital repayment mortgage 
where customers are required to make monthly payments towards capital and interest. 
Instead the bank worked out the balance on the basis of what had been paid in and 
withdrawn from the One account to determine if the account was on track to be repaid by the 
end of the term.
Each year a statement would be issued showing the status of the account and whether it 
was behind or ahead of the anticipated repayment schedule. In other words, if this had been 
a traditional capital repayment mortgage, whether the activity on the One account was on 
track to repay the mortgage at the end of the term, or if the account was behind plan.
From 2012 onwards RBS became concerned that the account terms and conditions were not 
as clear as they could have been, focusing too much on flexibility and allowing customers to 
make payments as and when they wished, leading them to believe that as long as the 
borrowing was repaid by the end of the term, they could use the account up to its full facility. 
The bank acknowledged that this could lead customers to believe their mortgage was 
interest-only, with the balance only needing to be repaid at the end of the term. RBS wrote to 
customers who were behind on their payment plan, asking them to reduce the account 
balance to the projected amount. 
Here I will explain that Mr and Mrs A were going through a divorce at that time, and the 
property was sold in 2015. 
However (and, it turned out, mistakenly) Mr and Mrs As case, RBS thought that they might 
have sold their property as a result of receiving these letters. Redress of £8,533.83 was 
offered, which was later revised to £16,074.60, split equally between Mr and Mrs A (who 
were by this time divorced). Mrs A accepted her compensation in December 2019. 
In February 2021 RBS contacted Mrs A again as part of a review to discuss any potential 
additional costs incurred or impact affecting her as a result of the previous review. Mrs A 
submitted a claim for additional costs. However, after investigating what had happened, RBS 
realised that it should not have paid the previous redress. The bank concluded that the sale 
of the property was not as a result of the banks letters about being behind plan. 
RBS did not ask for the redress to be returned. RBS offered compensation of £250, offset 
against the £8,037.30 previously paid to Mrs A. RBS also offered further compensation of 
£725, made up as follows:
£150 for the customer journey experience;
£75 for the time taken by Mrs A in participating in the review;
£500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by RBS changing its assessment of the 
case and offsetting the £250 redress.
Mrs A didnt accept this and brought her complaint to our service. Mrs A said that, after the 
bank contacted her in 2021, she had calculated that her second claim was in excess of 
£50,000. She wanted RBS to uphold the initial claim and redress, and pay full recompense 
for her second claim.
An investigator looked at what had happened but wasnt persuaded the complaint should be 
upheld. He noted the bank had concluded in 2021 that, given Mr and Mrs As divorce in 
2014/2015, the property would have been sold in any event. The investigator also noted 
there had been financial difficulties arising from the divorce. Overall he wasnt persuaded 
that Mrs A would have kept the mortgage until the end of the term in 2023. As a result, he 
didnt think the bank had done anything wrong.
Mrs A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Mrs A accepted 
that, at the time the property was sold, she was struggling with payments and that she and 
Mr A decided to sell the property as a result of this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue in this case is that RBS paid over £8,000 in compensation to Mrs A in 2019 that it 
later decided (in 2021) it should not have paid. RBS has not asked for this to be repaid. 
However, Mrs A believes that, not only was the compensation actually due to her in 2019, 
but that she has a claim for a further £50,000.
Ive looked at what happened in 2014/2015, and from this Im not persuaded that the reason 
the property was sold was because RBS wrote to Mr and Mrs A to explain that the mortgage 
was behind plan. There were financial difficulties and a marital breakdown, and I think it is more likely than not that this was the reason the property was sold. Indeed, Mrs A 
acknowledged this when she spoke to the investigator on 24 August 2022.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that RBS didnt make a mistake when it decided in 2021 
that it shouldnt have paid the redress to Mrs A in 2019. Im also satisfied that there isnt any 
basis on which I can reasonably find that RBS is liable for the £50,000 claimed by Mrs A, 
particularly given that the bank shouldnt have paid any redress at all in 2019.
I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Mrs A. However, it is to RBSs credit that the 
bank isnt asking for reimbursement of the £8,000 it paid to Mrs A  an amount which I am 
satisfied she was never entitled to, as it was (later discovered) paid in error by RBS. So to 
that extent, Mrs A has been enriched by more than £8,000 which she would not otherwise 
have been eligible to receive.
RBS has also offered compensation of £725 (as detailed above) for the way its dealt with 
this matter. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and I'm not ordering 
RBS to do anything further. If Mrs A wants to accept this, she should contact RBS direct.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman