DRN-3756989
The complaint
Mr L has complained about what he feels is a lack of transparency by St James Place 
Wealth Management Plc (SJP) regarding the charges he has incurred when he held his 
pension with it.
What happened
Mr L used an independent financial adviser (IFA) firm for around ten years. I will refer to this 
firm as Firm A. In May 2016 Firm A became a partner of SJP. Mr L was informed of this one 
month before the merger happened. At the time Mr L held a pension with a provider that was 
not SJP.
Around October 2016 Mr Ls adviser (now part of SJP) carried out a regular financial view of 
Mr L and his pension. As a result the adviser recommended Mr L move his pension to SJP. 
This switch was completed in December 2016.
At the point of this review the fact find noted the following information about Mr L:
He was aged 68, in good health, married and a homeowner. He had no dependents.
He was a self-employed engineer and had a disposable net monthly income of £230.
It was Mr Ls intention to continue working part time for as long as he enjoyed work 
and for as long as his health would allow. He had deferred his state pension as his 
self-employed earnings were enough for him to maintain his lifestyle.
He had no mortgage on his property and held a significant amount in his bank 
account for emergencies.
He could tolerate short term losses in the value of his pension in return for the 
potential of greater long-term returns.
He didnt want to contribute any funds into his pensions, and he didnt have any 
specific target income from his pension at the time.
It was noted he was keen to see how the joining with SJP could benefit him.
The information states that his SIPP with the then provider was held in a range of managed 
funds and it was noted that Mr L had experience in this regard. Mr L had looked at SJPs risk 
descriptions and felt the low to medium profile matched him the best. This was in contrast to 
his then current fund arrangements which were at a medium level of risk. A risk tolerance 
level of low to medium was agreed so the plan was made to move his fund to the SJP 
retirement plan.
The adviser recorded this was also because:
The plan would provide more cost-effective contract to facilitate his pension fund.
It would be able to utilise the SJP investment approach within his pensions and have 
a more advantageous cost structure.
The plan would enable Mr L to have the flexibility he required when he wished to start 
taking his retirement benefits.
The ongoing service Mr L wanted.
In March 2020 Mr L raised a complaint about the ongoing advice charges on his plan. He 
was unhappy with being charged 0.25% per annum. He said he wasnt told these fees could 
be turned off and that he wanted a refund for the years of 2018 and 2019 as regular reviews 
didnt take place.
In November 2020 Mr L raise a further complaint. He complained that he was informed in 
May 2016 that firm A was joining SJP and he received a letter which stated there would be 
no financial cost to him as a result of this change. However, by November 2016 he had been 
charged £11,248. He also complained that once Firm A had joined SJP his pension was 
always going to be switched. He felt his adviser only offered restricted advice so he was 
biased in his recommendation of the SJP retirement plan. He said he was strongly steered 
towards the retirement plan and wasnt told he had the option of leaving his pension where it 
initially was.
In relation to the first complaint Mr L raised SJP responded in March 2020. It said the 
charging structure document covered the charges in contention and Mr L would have seen 
these when he started the plan. SJP also said the key features document also shared with 
Mr L would have explained the fees could be turned off. SJP also stated that Mr L had 
refused the opportunity for formal reviews on two occasions.
In January 2021 SJP responded to Mr Ls second complaint. It explained that when Firm A 
became a partner of SJP there were no financial costs to Mr L. Any charge only occurred as 
a result of him switching his pension. SJP also explained that Mr L wasnt required to 
transfer his pension to SJP and it could have remained with the previous provider. But it 
asserted that it felt transferring it was appropriate and matched his requirements.
SJP offered to waive the early withdrawal charges if Mr L wanted to move his pensions away 
from it but only if he did so within six months. Mr L reiterated that Firm A was never going to 
give him a balanced view on his pension once it has become partners with SJP and that he 
had concerns about this initial advice.
In March 2021 SJP provided Mr L with further information that he had requested. It also 
offered Mr L £250 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused. Mr L was unhappy with this 
offer and so referred his complaint to this service.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators. He was of the view the complaint 
about the charging structure had been raised too late so its merits couldnt be considered by 
this service. In relation to the charges Mr L had incurred upon switching his pension he felt 
the correspondence he received at the time Firm A joined SJP didnt state he wouldnt be 
charged to switch, it just stated the merger wouldnt cost him anything. He was satisfied the 
charges for the switch and the ongoing service to be provided by his adviser had been made 
clear in all the documentation provided to Mr L before the switch took place.
The investigator also looked at the suitability of the advice to switch the pension to SJP. And 
he was satisfied that the costs of the transfer and the ongoing costs were less prohibitive 
than the ceding scheme at the time and that Mr L hadnt lost out on any benefits by 
switching. He was also satisfied that the plan with SJP was invested in line with Mr Ls 
attitude to risk.
Mr L didnt agree with the assessment he remained of the view the advice to switch his 
pension wasnt suitable and that he hasnt been treated fairly and in line with the FCA 
regulations. He also said it took over four years to get the actual cost information from SJP 
and he was adamant the costs for the SJP were higher than his ceding scheme.While the investigator took account of Mr Ls comments he wasnt persuaded to change his 
outcome. So as no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for broadly the same 
reason.
Complaint about the charging structure
As SJP objected to this point being considered because it felt it had been brought too late 
under the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules that govern this service I must first decide 
whether this complaint point has in fact been brought to us outside of the required 
timescales.
The rules setting out which complaints this Service can and cant consider are found in the 
DISP rules, mentioned above. DISP 2.8 sets out the general time limits and whether a 
complaint was referred to the Ombudsman Service in time. And, DISP 2.8.2 R sets out the 
following: 
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant 
its final response, redress determination or summary resolution communication;
Unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period and had written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint 
being received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R 
or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances; or
SJP issued two final response letters (FRLs) to this specific complaint dated 25 March 2020 
and 2 June 2020. Both these letters provided Mr L with the correct referral rights to this 
service if he wasnt happy with SJPs response and also clearly set out the six-month 
timeframe in which he had to refer his complaint. Mr L didnt bring his complaint to us until 
August 2021 which is more than six months from the date of the last FRL and so the 
complaint has been made out of time.
Mr L has said that he didnt raise the complaint to go through SJPs complaint procedures. In 
his view it was the adviser who raised it formally with SJP and Mr L was unaware it had 
become official until SJP informed him of this through the final response letters. He therefore 
feels he shouldnt be penalised by any time limits. However, in my view what Mr Ls intention 
is largely irrelevant for the purposes of the DISP rules. What is important is that he received 
final responses from SJP which addressed his complaint points, and he was informed of the 
timeframes that applied if he wanted to refer his complaint to this service. And Mr Ls 
argument is not one which I would consider to be an exceptional circumstance therefore this particular complaint point remains outside of our jurisdiction due to it being brought far too 
late to be considered.
Costs incurred when Firm A became a partner of SJP
Having looked at all of the information I am satisfied that Mr L wasnt charged with anything 
as a result of Firm A joining SJP. The letter he was sent dated 27 Aril 2016 clearly states this 
and this is what happened. It was only when Mr L decided to transfer his pension to SJP that 
he was charged but this was an initial advice fee which is standard. I dont think the meaning 
of the letter was unclear or could be misconstrued. There is no mention that Mr L wouldnt be 
charged if he made changes to his pension. And it stands to reason that any change to his 
portfolio would incur a charge because that would be normal business practice which is 
something I think its likely Mr L would have known at the time.
I am also satisfied that the charging structure was set out in clear detail in the key facts 
documents and product literature that was provided to Mr L at the time he received the 
financial advice so he was or should have been fully aware of it all at the time.
Its important to note that the fees Mr L were charged were offset against the early 
withdrawal charges rather than being deducted from the value of the pension and were 
spread out over a future six-year period. Also, the adviser took a reduced fee to enable a 
lower initial advice fee to be charged to Mr L.
Suitability of the pension switch.
In considering this aspect of the complaint it is important for me to have in mind the 
regulators guidelines and checklist it published in 2009. The checklist identified four main 
areas where a consumer could lose out by proceeding with the switch of their pension:
They had been switched to a pension that is more expensive than their existing one 
due to exit penalties and or initial costs and ongoing costs without good reason.
They had lost benefits in the pension switch with no good reason.
They had switched into a pension that does not match their recorded attitude to risk 
(ATR) and personal circumstances.
They had switched into a pension where there is a need for ongoing investment 
reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
In looking at the information provided to me it looks to me that on switching to the SJP plan 
Mr L didnt lose out on any benefits that he had with his existing scheme at the time and 
given he had a relationship with the adviser the regular reviews were something he wanted.
The real difference in the existing pension and the new recommended one were in the area 
of charges and also Mr Ls ATR.
Having considered the charges of the new pension with SJP compared with that of the 
ceding scheme as SJP applied special terms to the switch which reduced the initial advice 
fee this brought the fees down by 0.25% compared to the ceding schemes charges. In fact, 
the overall charges were 1.83% per annum if Mr L stayed with the ceding scheme but were 
1.64% per annum if he moved to SJP so it doesnt seem wholly unreasonable that the 
adviser recommended he move.
Looking at the funds involved, Mr L had initially invested in a cautious fund within the ceding 
scheme but more recently had moved to a balanced fund. The details of this fund show that 
it was heavily equity based and the equities were almost all international. Given Mr L had confirmed in the review in October 2016 that he wanted to a take a lower to medium risk 
level my view is that the ceding scheme investments exposed Mr L to more risk than he 
wanted and/or that he should have had at the time (being 68 years of age and only working 
part time). But in moving to SJP his chosen risk level was met. And while SJP didnt offer as 
many funds as the ceding scheme  36 to 53 - SJP had more management teams and the 
move also provided Mr L access to SJPs investment Management approach.
There is an argument that Mr L could have just changed the risk level within the ceding 
scheme. But he would have still been paying higher fees and charges than if he moved. And 
he wouldnt have been able to keep the same adviser because SJP wasnt able to support 
the ceding scheme and the investments.
So it appears to me the recommendation was based on a combination of the lower fees and 
charges brought about by SJP applying special terms to Mr Ls switch along with a more 
bespoke investment management approach and the ability to maintain the relationship with 
his long standing adviser.
So I think the advice was largely suitable for him as it wasnt more expensive, he hadnt lost 
out on any benefits and it met his ATR even more than the ceding scheme did.
I am satisfied that the adviser made a comparison between the old one and new one and 
this was documented in the paperwork completed at the time. It was set out clearly. 
Illustrations were provided to take into account the future charging structure of both plans 
including the charges deducted to pay for commission and fees to the adviser for making the 
switch.
Ultimately the regulator states that a consumer shouldnt be advised to transfer without good 
reason. But for the reasons I have stated above I am satisfied that there was a good enough 
reason for the advice to transfer in this case.
Restricted advice
In terms of the adviser not being able to provide a balanced view of SJP retirement plan 
I agree to a certain extent with Mr L but this was because the adviser could only provide 
restricted advice. However, I am satisfied that Mr L was aware of this before he made the 
decision to switch to SJP. The document entitled Key Facts: Our Service and Costs which 
was provided to Mr L before the financial advice took place sets out that the adviser could 
only provide restricted advice and could only offer products from a limited number of 
companies. So, it seems Mr L was very aware of these facts when he agreed with the advice 
and has decided to bring it up only years later.
Overall, therefore when considering the complaint points that are within my jurisdiction, 
I think it was clear to Mr L that when he was charged after moving his pension to SJP this 
was because of the pension switch rather than Firm A entering into partnership with SJP. 
And I am satisfied that the advice to switch was largely suitable and was made in the best 
interest of Mr L.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Ayshea KhanOmbudsman