DRN-3741643
The complaint
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) has previously upheld Mr 
Bs complaint about the unsuitable advice it gave him to take out a Free-Standing Additional 
Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) policy. But Mr B remains unhappy with the method of 
compensation Sun Life wants to use.
Mr B is represented in his complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC). But Ill only 
reference him in my decision.
What happened
Mr B complained to Sun Life in January 2021. He felt it had mis-sold him an FSAVC policy.
Sun Life upheld the complaint. And calculated that the appropriate redress was £30,570.43. 
It proposed that the redress should be paid into a new pension plan it would arrange on Mr 
Bs behalf. And that the money would be invested in Sun Lifes Managed Pension Fund 
unless Mr B specified otherwise.
Sun Lifes letter which gave details of its offer said: Please note that if the amount shown 
above exceeds your available Annual Allowance, then we will need to pay your 
compensation as a cash lump sum instead of setting up a new pension plan. It also 
recommended that Mr B might want to seek financial advice before deciding whether to 
accept the offer.
Sun Life also explained that if its proposed method of redress would have tax implications for 
Mr B, the cash payment it would offer instead would be reduced by 20% to reflect the fact 
that pension contributions would benefit from tax relief.
The letter also said that before Sun Life could set up a new pension plan for Mr B, it would 
need details of his pension contributions for the current tax year and the previous three tax 
years. And confirmation of his income.
Mr B agreed with the complaint outcome and the calculations. But asked for the redress to 
be paid as cash. He felt that a pension contribution of £30,570.43 could cause complications 
for him. 
Sun Life asked for evidence of this, but nothing was provided.  As agreement couldnt be 
reached, Mr B brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator issued his first view on the complaint in May 2022. He said that this service 
usually considers that if the payment of redress into a pension has protection or allowance 
implications it should be paid directly to the complainant as a lump sum, after making a 
notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement.
Our investigator also felt that HMRC rules required Mr B to fully fund his pension up to the 
Annual Allowance (AA) before he could use any available carry-forward. And that as his 
income for 2020/2021 was around £37,500, he wouldve only been eligible to make 
contributions up to this level and receive tax relief. Any contributions above this level 
wouldnt receive tax relief. He also felt that although Sun Life had highlighted to Mr B that AA 
was a complex area and recommended he get independent advice, it hadnt offered to pay 
for such advice. He also noted that Sun Life had asked Mr B to sign a declaration which 
confirmed he hadnt exceeded his AA limit before it could make the full redress payment to a 
personal pension plan.
Our investigator initially concluded that paying the redress into a personal pension plan 
could cause complications and tax issues for Mr B. He felt that the redress would exceed the 
amount Mr B was eligible to contribute to a pension. And therefore recommended that the 
complaint be upheld. He said Sun Life should pay the redress as a cash lump sum, after 
making an adjustment for notional tax.
Sun Life didnt agree with our investigator. It referenced two other similar complaints that this 
service had previously considered, and said that these had decided that its approach wasnt 
unfair. It also made the following points:
- It had upheld the original advice complaint and calculated redress on the basis that 
Mr B wanted to provide an additional regular pension each month. Such benefits 
wouldnt have been payable until Mr B reached age 55. He wasnt yet 55. 
- It had based the loss calculation on FCA Guidance note FG17/9. This stated: the 
basic objective of redress is to put the customer, so far as possible, into the position 
they would have been in if the non-compliant or unsuitable advice had not been given 
or the breach had not occurred. It considered that paying redress to a new pension 
policy would enable Mr B to receive an additional regular pension each month. So 
this method would put him as far as possible in the position he wouldve been had 
unsuitable advice not been given.
- It said it applied FG17/9 Paragraph 7 as drafted. And that it did consider particular 
customer circumstances, so had paid redress in lump sum form where it wasnt 
practicable to set up an augmentation policy. It also said that if FG17/9 was changed 
to include reference to a customers personal preference as a valid reason for a cash 
payment it would comply. But that whilst the guidance remained in its current form, it 
would use it to determine its approach to the payment of redress.
- Sun Life also said that it had asked Mr B for details of his AA so that it could establish 
whether an augmentation policy could be set up. It said it only needed Mr B to 
provide the information itd requested. And didnt expect him to have specialist 
knowledge in this respect. 
- It said that although it understood that our investigator had come to his view in good 
faith, it believed that implementing his recommendation without any justification due 
to Mr Bs personal circumstances would undermine the FCA guidance.
- It felt it had offered an accepted form of redress and followed accepted procedures to 
ensure that Mr B wasnt disadvantaged by the form of redress paid. And that 
previous Ombudsman decisions had specifically stated that paying redress into a 
new pension plan whilst covering relevant future charges wasnt unfair.
Our investigator told Sun Life that the reason hed recommended the complaint be upheld is 
because he felt forcing Mr B to use carry forward would lead to an AA tax charge. He said 
that Sun Lifes offer letters had specifically stated: "if the amount shown above exceeds your 
available AA, then we will need to pay your compensation as a cash lump sum instead of 
setting up a new pension plan. So he felt it should do that here.Sun Life disagreed with our investigator. It said that the availability of carry forward wasnt 
related to an individual's earnings. But was instead determined by reference to the AA, 
which in turn was linked to pension inputs, not earnings. It said that pension input - against 
which the available or used amount of AA is measured - isnt solely based on the 
contributions made by the individual, which attract income tax relief for that individual, but 
could also include contributions by an employer and contributions by any other person on 
behalf of the individual. 
Sun Life said that for the redress it had offered to Mr B, it proposed making pension inputs 
on behalf of Mr B so that the total pension input for the current tax year was £40,000. The 
excess of the redress payment over the amount required to bring the current tax year inputs 
up to £40,000 would then be applied to the plan. It said this wouldnt attract an AA charge as 
it would be offset against Mr Bs unused AA carried forward from previous years.
Our investigator agreed with much of what Sun Life had said, but said he was concerned 
that any contribution made in excess of Mr Bs relevant income wouldnt benefit from tax 
relief. He asked it to confirm that its redress methodology would take this into account and 
pay the gross sum.
Sun Life said that if it could apply the contribution without treating is as relievable, then it 
would do so, as long as this wouldnt cause any adverse impact to Mr Bs financial position. 
But that if it would cause additional tax charges for Mr B, it would consider paying the 
redress as a discounted cash sum, as long as it was provided with supporting evidence. It 
said it hadnt yet seen any satisfactory supporting evidence. 
Our investigator asked Mr B for evidence of his income for the 2020/21 tax year. And also for 
evidence of his pension inputs for that year if available. Mr B provided evidence that his 
salary was just under £38,000 for the 2020/21 tax year.
Our investigator issued his second view in September 2022. He felt that Sun Lifes proposed 
method of redress did treat Mr B fairly. He said Sun Life had clarified its proposal. And that 
although it proposed to first make pension contributions for Mr B up to the £40,000 standard 
AA, it had accepted that a contribution in excess of Mr Bs relevant earnings wouldnt be 
eligible for tax relief, so it would pay that part gross.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigator. He felt that Sun Life had confused all concerned by 
changing its approach more than once. He didnt think hed been treated fairly. And still 
wanted the redress payment to be made to him in cash.
Mr B also still felt that Sun Lifes proposed approach would lead to an inappropriate use of 
pension carry forward. He considered that hed have to personally make pension 
contributions of £40,000 in the current year before he could use carry forward. But he 
couldnt do that as his income was lower than this. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review. 
I asked Sun Life to confirm why it had decided in the end to settle two other similar cases 
that were being challenged by the same CMC, but not this one. For the other two cases, I 
understand that it had agreed to make the reduced cash lump sum payment rather than the 
pension contribution. 
Sun Life said that it had made a business decision towards the end of November 2022 to 
settle the referenced cases as a discounted cash payment because two credentials had 
been met, with the first being mandatory under pension regulation. These were: 1. the investors were over the age of 55 years of age, therefore eligible to take pension 
retirement benefits, either as a cash payment or via an annuity.
2. the investors had stated intentions of taking immediate retirement benefits and had 
explicitly requested a cash payment. 
Sun Life said that as Mr B wasnt yet aged 55, it couldnt consider a cash settlement as he 
wasnt old enough. And unless there was evidence of an AA or Lifetime Allowance or 
taxation breach it couldnt offer cash. It said it had advised Mr Bs CMC of this in November 
2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ive not seen any evidence that Mr B will breach 
his AA or Lifetime Allowance if Sun Life pays the redress into a new pension plan. I also 
consider that if Mr B does provide evidence that his AA would be breached if Sun Life were 
to pay the redress into a new pension scheme, it would instead be prepared to pay him a 
cash lump sum. Therefore I consider Sun Lifes offer of redress to be fair and reasonable. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision. 
Both parties agree that the calculated redress is reasonable. The only outstanding issue is 
how any financial loss should be paid. Mr B feels that the FCA guidance FG 17/9 requires 
his compensation to be paid as a lump sum. 
From what Ive seen, Sun Life followed the regulators guidance on how to calculate the 
redress amount and I havent seen anything to suggest this was done incorrectly. 
I think Sun Lifes offer letter clearly explained that the offer was to set up a redress pension 
plan. The cash sum was merely an alternative if the payment exceeded Mr Bs available AA 
and therefore a pension payment wasnt possible. Mr B wasnt given an option to choose 
between these alternatives. I appreciate that Mr B would prefer a cash payment. And I note 
that Sun Life couldve paid the sum to him in cash if itd decided to do so. The regulators 
guidance doesnt prevent this action. 
However, the redress is meant to put Mr B as far as possible in the position he would be in 
now if he hadnt taken out an FSAVC plan. Augmenting the customers personal pension is 
the common way to compensate customers in these circumstances. 
Sun Lifes proposed method of redress is to set up a new pension plan. And to invest the 
money in Sun Lifes Managed Pension Fund unless Mr B specifies otherwise. This seems 
reasonable to me. 
I acknowledge that Mr B feels that Sun Life has changed its approach more than once. But I 
dont think this is the case here. From what Ive seen, Sun Life explained its offer of redress. 
And noted that it would pay the redress as a cash lump sum if Mr B provided evidence that 
the compensation would exceed his available AA. As Mr B has provided further information 
over time, including about his relevant earnings, Sun Life has adapted its offer to ensure that 
Mr B doesnt lose out. 
I also acknowledge that Mr B feels that Sun Lifes proposed approach would lead to an 
inappropriate use of pension carry forward. He considers that hed have to personally make 
pension contributions of £40,000 in the current tax year before he could use carry forward. And said he couldnt do that as his earnings arent big enough. 
This is not the case. Carry forward is determined by reference to the AA, which in turn is 
linked to pension inputs, not earnings. A pension input is broadly the total gross 
contributions paid in the pension input period by the individual, their employer, and any other 
person on behalf of the individual.   
Sun Life proposed to make pension inputs on behalf of Mr B so that the total pension input 
for the current tax year is £40,000. The rest of the redress payment would then be paid into 
the new pension plan using Mr Bs unused AA from the three previous tax years. 
Sun Lifes initial calculations based on the information Mr B has previously supplied led it to 
believe that he had sufficient unused AA to support its proposed method of redress. But Sun 
Life has confirmed it will need to obtain additional information from Mr B so that it can redo 
its AA checks again. 
In all the circumstances of this case Im satisfied that the offer made to Mr B by Sun Life is 
fair and reasonable, as it puts Mr B as close as possible to the position he wouldve been in 
but for the unsuitable advice to take out an FSAVC. I say this because I agree with Sun Life 
that Mr B had originally wanted to provide an additional regular pension each month. And 
that such benefits wouldnt have been payable until he reached age 55 at the earliest. 
Im satisfied that paying redress to a new pension policy would enable Mr B to receive an 
additional regular pension each month. So this method would put him as far as possible in 
the position he wouldve been had unsuitable advice not been given. And as Mr B isnt yet 
55, I dont consider paying him a cash lump sum would be appropriate, unless it would 
cause AA issues.
In summary, I dont think paying the redress into a new pension plan is unfair in the 
circumstances. So Im not going to tell Sun Life to do anything other than it has already 
offered. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, but I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman