DRN-1717022
The complaint
Mr A complains that the promotional interest rate on his Lloyds Bank PLC credit card ended 
after 12 months instead of the 29 months. 
What happened
Mr A applied for a credit card with Lloyds in April 2018. Mr A wanted to take out a 29 months 
0% promotional interest rate and Lloyds sent him pre contract information setting out the 
product he applied for. 
On 23 April 2018 Lloyds emailed Mr A with details of the credit card that had been approved. 
Mr A accepted a credit agreement that said the 0% promotional interest rate would last for 
12 months. 
Last year, Mr A's credit card payments increased and he complained to Lloyds. Lloyds sent 
Mr A its final response on 16 July 2019. Lloyds said it had told Mr A about the length of the 
promotional 0% interest period before he accepted the credit card. Lloyds waived the next 
two months' interest to allow Mr A some time to decide what to do. 
Mr A referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. He didn't 
uphold Mr A's complaint. Mr A asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has given us a copy of the pre contract information Lloyds sent him when he applied for 
the credit card. The information Mr A was given relates to a credit card with a 29 
month interest free period. But the email says that the information provided isn't binding. 
Whilst I understand Mr A applied for a credit card with a 29 month 0% interest period, the pre 
contract information isn't the same as a credit agreement. 
Lloyds looked at Mr A's application and sent him a credit agreement. The credit agreement 
contained a 12 month 0% interest period, not 29. I haven't found that information about the 
length of the promotional rate was hidden or buried in the small print. I appreciate Mr A didn't 
expect to receive a 12 month promotional period. But the credit agreement he accepted is 
clear in setting out how long the interest free period lasts.
After Mr A complained, Lloyds agreed to extend the 0% interest period for an additional two 
months. I appreciate that's less than Mr A was hoping for but as I haven't found Lloyds made 
a mistake or misled him I think that's a fair way to resolve his complaint. As I'm satisfied 
Lloyds has dealt with Mr A's complaint fairly, I'm not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman