DRN-3881553
The complaint
Miss B and Mr K complain about their mortgage with Nationwide Building Society. They say 
it didnt notify them when their fixed interest rate came to an end, which meant they lost out 
on the chance to take a new fixed rate straightaway.
What happened
Miss B and Mr K have a mortgage with Nationwide. In 2020 they took a two year fixed rate, 
expiring in 2022. 
On 6 July 2022, Nationwide says it sent Miss B and Mr K a letter reminding them that their 
interest rate was coming to an end. Miss B and Mr K say they didnt receive this letter. As a 
result, they didnt apply for a new rate in time, and moved onto Nationwides standard 
mortgage rate for August 2022. 
Miss B and Mr K took a new fixed rate on 30 July, but it didnt take effect until September  
for it to be implemented for August, they would have needed to apply by 24 July. So they 
complained that Nationwide hadnt properly notified them of the expiry of the old rate in time 
for them to make an application  as a result, theyd paid more than they needed to in 
August. They said Nationwide should have emailed, called or texted them as well as sending 
a letter.  
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld, so Miss B and Mr K asked for 
an ombudsman to review it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B and Mr K took their existing rate out in 2020. The offer said the rate would run until 
31 July 2022, after which their mortgage would move on to Nationwides standard rate. In 
the absence of an application for a new rate by the deadline to make a change in time, 
therefore, Nationwide correctly applied the interest rate the mortgage contract said would be 
applied in August 2022. 
But while Nationwide was entitled to apply the rate set out in the contract, I also need to 
think about whether in doing so it acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances. So 
Ive also taken into account whether it did enough to make Miss B and Mr K aware of what 
would happen and what action they would need to take.
Nationwide wrote to Miss B and Mr K on 6 July 2022. It wrote to their address  the same 
address it has used for all other correspondence, and the same address Miss B and Mr K 
have given to us. Im satisfied that the letter was correctly addressed and that Nationwide 
sent it. Its true that letters do go astray in the post from time to time  but thats a rare 
occurrence, and on balance I think its more likely than not that the letter was received by 
Miss B and Mr K, even if they didnt notice it or realise its significance at the time, or dont 
recall receiving it now.
The letter said in prominent bold type Your mortgage deal is ending soon, and in even 
larger type that their interest rate would increase from 1.49% to 4.49%. It went on to say that 
Miss B and Mr K could apply to Nationwide for a new interest rate. It gave them some 
examples of rates that were available and told them they could apply either online or over 
the phone. And it said, Complete your application before 10am on 24th to switch for next 
month. 
Im therefore satisfied that Nationwide made it clear to Miss B and Mr K that their interest 
rate was coming to an end, that their payments would increase, and that if they wanted to 
apply for a new rate there was a deadline for that to happen to avoid moving on to the 
standard rate. And its more likely than not that Miss B and Mr K received this letter.
But even if they didnt receive the letter, I think Nationwide still did enough to make them 
aware of when their existing interest rate came to an end. In 2020 it gave them a mortgage 
offer which said the rate would expire after 24 months. And Nationwides annual mortgage 
statements include information about interest rates. The statement it sent Miss B and Mr K in 
January 2022 said their mortgage interest rate was 1.49%, that this was a two year rate, and 
that it expired on 31 July 2022.
The rules of mortgage regulation dont require a lender to invite customers to apply for a new 
rate  they merely require a lender to notify a customer if their monthly payments are about 
to change, giving reasonable notice. The rules dont specify how that notice should be given.
It's up to customers to apply for a rate  it wouldnt be right for a lender to impose one 
without an application. Thats because new fixed rates include early repayment charges. 
Some customers actively choose not to take a new rate, for example because they might be 
thinking about selling their property or want to have the flexibility to overpay. It wouldnt be 
reasonable for a lender to assume a customer wanted a new rate and commit them to an 
early repayment charge without their agreement. 
Nationwide therefore went beyond what it was required to do. It told Miss B and Mr K that 
their payments would change, but it also made clear how they could apply for a new rate if 
they wanted to  but that it was up to them to apply. It did this when they applied for their 
existing rate in 2020, on their annual statements, and again in July 2022. 
Im satisfied Miss B and Mr K had enough information to know when their rate ended and 
what to do about it. I dont think that Nationwide was required to follow up the letter with an 
email, text or call. Ultimately it was up to them to apply for a new rate, and if they didnt do so 
by the deadline I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require Nationwide to refund 
additional interest theyve paid as a result.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman