DRN-4000713
The complaint
Miss E has complained that she is unhappy with the quality of a car she acquired in October 
2018, using a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse Limited (Black Horse).
What happened
Miss E acquired a used Ford Focus in October 2018, using a hire-purchase agreement with 
Black Horse. The car was four and a half years old, with a mileage of 23,581 at that point. 
The cost of the car was just over £10,500, of which Miss E borrowed £9,023.40 over a term 
of 60 months with a monthly repayment of £199.05.
In November 2022, Miss E complained to Black Horse that car had had faults shortly after 
purchase, in that the car was cutting out and door seals were coming off, and the car had 
been sold with a one-month MOT. Four weeks before making the complaint, the head gasket 
went and the engine was replaced, albeit with Ford covering the cost. Miss E said she was 
unhappy that the car had been sold with a known fault and with recalls having been made. 
She also said that the seals were letting in water and the car was full of mould. Miss E wants 
to terminate the hire-purchase agreement and have her payments refunded. 
Black Horse issued its final response letter to Miss E in December 2022, in summary saying 
that she had had the car for just over four years, and had driven over 36,000 miles, which 
she would not have been able to do if the car had not been of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. It said that the dealership had not had the vehicle in for maintenance or servicing 
between the date of supply and the date of the engine replacement, so it had no fault history 
for the car. 
Miss E was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked at Miss Es complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. Miss E 
disagreed and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Es complaint. Ill explain why. 
Because Black Horse supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, its responsible for 
a complaint about the quality, and theres an implied term that the car was of satisfactory 
quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person 
would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such as (amongst other 
things) the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. When considering satisfactory 
quality, I also need to look at whether the car is durable  that is, the components within the 
car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time.
In this case of course, the car was around four and a half years old, with a mileage of 23,581 
at the point of supply. And the price was lower than that of a new car. So its reasonable to 
expect that parts of the car would have suffered a degree of wear and tear, and that a car of 
this age would likely need repair and maintenance sooner than a newer car. 
Ive taken account of the relevant law, in particular the Consumer Rights Act 2015, (CRA). 
There are certain times, set out in the CRA, when a consumer is entitled to reject goods, in 
this case the car, if they dont conform to contract  a short term right to reject within 30 days 
of taking delivery, or a final right to reject if a repair or replacement hasnt resulted in the car 
subsequently conforming  that is, it then being of satisfactory quality. Miss E has had the 
car for over four years, so the short term right to reject under the CRA doesnt apply here. 
Black Horse sent in copies of the warranty invoice for the engine replacement and the 
document from Ford about covering the cost of the engine replacement, along with copies of 
the sales documents and information from the dealership. 
Miss E said that she had no documentary evidence about the initial problems she 
mentioned, that is, problems with the seals and the engine cutting out. But she has provided 
several photographs of the interior of the car, showing the current problem with the mould. 
From what Miss E told us, the mould seems to have appeared quite recently, so we asked 
Miss E whether the cause had been determined by a garage or independent inspector. She 
sent in information from the dealership which said that a full water ingress test would be 
needed, but a visual inspection suggested that water was entering somewhere around the 
rear passenger quarter. The main areas to check were stated to be three types of seal, and 
a vent under the bumper which could be dislodged and cause water to enter. More recently 
Miss E sent in screenshots from social media which she said showed others having similar 
issues with Ford Focus cars.
Ive carefully considered all of the evidence, and Ive also searched online for information 
about recalls on this type of car. I can appreciate that it must be very distressing for Miss E 
to have mould in the car, and to have this happen following on from the recent engine 
replacement, but I have to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply in 2018.
Black Horse said in its final response letter that two faults for which recalls were issued (and 
which are consistent with what Ive found online) were dealt with before Miss E acquired the 
car. The replacement of the engine appears to have been caused by something else, for 
which, as far as I can see, a formal recall notice wasnt issued. However Black Horse said 
the dealership stated it was due to a manufacturing defect, and as I noted above, the cost 
was met by Ford. So, as a manufacturing defect, it would clearly have been present ever 
since the car was first made. That said, Miss E was able to drive the car for over 36,000 
miles, and for four years, before the problem occurred, and the engine was replaced at no 
cost to her, so as the repair has been done I cant fairly say that Black Horse should do 
anything more. 
With regard to the mould, this seems to have occurred since the engine replacement. As I 
noted above, the exact cause hasnt been determined, but it seems likely to be related to 
worn seals or a vent that may have been dislodged. Ive looked at all of the information that 
Miss E sent in, and I appreciate that she mentioned problems with the seals occurring 
shortly after she acquired the car. But I dont have much detail about the early problems (and 
I cant see that they were reported to Black Horse at the time), and it seems to me that the 
mould would have shown up much sooner if there had been a fault present at the point of 
supply  as I said, Miss E had had the car for four years when it appeared, and by then the 
car was over eight years old. Seals do need replacing from time to time, and if the cause is 
the vent under the bumper having been dislodged, it seems likely that this wouldve been 
quite recent. So overall I think its most likely that the problem thats causing the mould is 
due to wear and tear. I appreciate that Miss E feels very strongly about this. But in summary, whilst, by definition, a 
manufacturing defect wouldve been present at the point of supply, it clearly wasnt evident, 
and when the engine had to be replaced it was done at no cost to Miss E, so she was not left 
out of pocket. And Im not persuaded that the current issue with mould is due to a fault that 
was present at the point of supply. So overall I dont think Black Horse has done anything 
wrong, and therefore I am not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I have decided not to uphold Miss Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman