DRN-3765296
The complaint
Mrs C complains about how QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) dealt with a claim under her home 
insurance policy for accidental damage to her property. 
QIC use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to QIC includes 
these agents.
What happened
In May 2022, Mrs C was painting the exterior of her property, part of which was above some 
decking. She placed tarpaulin and dust sheets over the decking to avoid any paint spilling. 
However, when shed finished and took up the sheets, she realised some paint had leaked 
onto the decking. She tried to clean it, first with soap and water, a pressure washer, then 
with chemical paint remover. However, this didnt work and the decking became more 
damaged. Mrs C then contacted QIC to tell them about the damage and lodge a claim. 
QIC arranged for a surveyor to visit and inspect the damage. In their report, the surveyor 
concluded Mrs C was having renovation work carried out at the time of the incident, which 
negated the accidental damage cover under the policy. Based on the surveyors report, QIC 
rejected Mrs Cs claim. Mrs C challenged the decision and QICs in-house surveyor reviewed 
the claim. They agreed with the surveyors conclusion and said re-painting the property 
would be classified as renovation works. As such, the policy stated that cover wouldnt apply 
to loss or damage resulting from renovation or repairs. 
Mrs C complained to QIC, but they didnt uphold the complaint, confirming their decision to 
decline the claim. They said Mrs Cs policy covered her for damage resulting from certain 
one-off events (perils) and claims needed to fall under one of these perils. QIC referred to 
the policy definition of accidental damage and said Mrs C was having renovation work 
carried out at the time of the incident  but the policy didnt cover damage from renovation or 
repairs. QIC referred to policy exclusions covering damage resulting from alterations, 
extensions, renovation or repairs to buildings. QIC also referred to the policy general 
conditions, specifically a condition on reasonable care and preventing loss. QIC said the 
exclusions applied as the damage occurred during home renovations and they werent 
satisfied reasonable steps were taken to protect the decking to prevent loss.
Mrs C then complained to this service. She said the building work at her property had been 
completed before she took out her policy (in January 2022) and before her decorating the 
original part of her property and the extension to the property and the incident. She said the 
surveyor had taken photographs of leftover sand and some tiles, as a well as a scaffolding 
unit shed purchased. So, she thought the claim had been unfairly declined on the grounds 
of the building work.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding QIC hadnt acted fairly. She was satisfied 
the evidence from the builder showed work on the extension was completed in January 
2022, and that photographs of various materials at the property were left over from the 
extension work. So, QIC hadnt assessed Mrs Cs claim properly, in order to decline her 
claim on the grounds of the exclusions theyd referred to. The investigator also didnt agree 
with QICs in-house surveyor that the painting by Mrs C was renovation works. Renovation 
was defined as to improve broken, outdated or damaged structure, which she thought didnt 
include painting. She also thought Mrs C had taken reasonable precautions to protect the 
decking. The investigator thought QIC should reassess the claim in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy (without the exclusions theyd applied).
QIC disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They said work had been undertaken on the external render to the property, 
which Mrs C had then painted. They considered this to be alteration or renovation work 
(even though it was carried out by Mrs C). So, it fell under the policy exclusions they applied 
to decline the claim. They also referred to the poor state of the decking prior to the incident, 
which they said looked like it hadnt been maintained. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether QIC has acted fairly towards Mrs C.
The main element of Mrs Cs complaint is that QIC unfairly declined her claim, on the 
grounds of exclusions from cover under accidental damage. First, that the painting she was 
carrying out would (as QIC see it) be classed as alteration or renovations work. And, second, 
that she didnt take sufficient precautions to avoid the damage. Mrs C says the work on her 
extension had been completed when she took out her policy, and the materials at her 
property were left over from the building work. She also says she took sufficient precautions.
In considering the case, Ive started, firstly, from the general principle, where a policyholder 
makes a claim for damage or loss under a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an 
insured event that caused the damage or loss. In this case, there isnt a dispute that there 
was damage to the decking from paint dripping onto the decking (despite the sheets Mrs C 
says she put down as a precaution). 
QIC referred in their final response to the definition of accidental damage in the policy:
Accidental Damage
Sudden unexpected and physical damage which:
i. happens at a specific time
ii. was not deliberate; and
iii. was caused by something external and identifiable.
Looking at the definition in the context of what happened, it isnt disputed damage occurred 
from the dripping paint. And I think what happened would fall within the above definition.
However, where an insurer relies on exclusions in the policy to decline a claim (as QIC have 
done) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at the available 
information and evidence, I dont think QIC have done so in the specific circumstances of 
this case, so Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their final response, QIC refer to the following policy exclusions, firstly in the Additional 
Accident Damage to Buildings section, where it states the policy does not cover:
e. loss or damage as a result of any alterations, extensions, renovation or repairs to 
the buildings including settlement or shrinkage of buildings.QIC also refer to the General Conditions section of the policy, where it states:
11. Reasonable care and preventing loss
a. You must take all necessary and reasonable steps to prevent or limit accident, 
injury, loss or damage to your buildings and contents or liability to others .
QIC applied these exclusions based on the conclusions, firstly of the surveyor who visited 
the property, which includes the following statement:
We have declined the claim as the customer is clearly having renovation works 
carried out which negated the accidental damage cover under the section 14 sub 
section E.
QICs in-house surveyor, when reviewing the case and the surveyors report agreed with the 
conclusion and stated:
I have reviewed the damage to the decking and unfortunately, the re-painting of the 
house would be considered renovation works. Therefore the claim is declined under 
peril exclusion which states that we will not cover any loss or damage that is a result 
of renovation or repairs to the building.
Ive considered these points carefully, alongside what Mrs C has said and the evidence and 
information shes provided. On balance, Im not persuaded QIC acted fairly in applying the 
exclusions. Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
The first point is whether renovation work was being carried out at the time of the incident 
(as QIC say) or whether the work was complete before the incident. Mrs C says the building 
work (including new windows and exterior render) was completed in January 2022, just 
before she took out her policy. And that any materials at her property were simply left over 
from the work. Ive considered both views, together with a confirmation from the builder who 
carried out the work that it was completed in January 2022. Taking these points into account, 
Im satisfied the work was completed before the incident and that (from the photographs) 
Mrs C was painting the exterior render (which was complete). While the photographs do 
show some materials on the property, and some areas on the ground where work appears to 
be ongoing, I dont think either are relevant for the specific circumstances of the case (paint 
dripping from the exterior render onto the decking). So, Im persuaded renovation work 
wasnt being carried out at the time of the incident.
Having reached this conclusion, Ive also considered whether (as QIC maintain) the re-
painting (by Mrs C) constituted renovation or repairs. Mrs Cs policy doesnt include a 
definition of either term, so Ive considered what would generally and reasonably be 
considered renovations or repairs. Having done so, I dont think painting (or re-painting) can 
reasonably be held to be renovation or repair. I think these terms imply substantial work. 
Looking at publicly available definitions of renovation, they include descriptions such as the 
process of improving a broken, damaged, or outdated structure1 and the act or process of 
repairing and improving something, especially a building2. I think these terms imply more 
substantial work than painting (new) render. 
Based on these points, Ive concluded QIC havent fairly applied the renovation exclusion to 
decline the claim.
1 Meriam-Webster
2 Cambridge DictionaryTurning to the second exclusion cited by QIC, taking reasonable precautions. Mrs C has 
described the precautions when painting, including putting down tarpaulin and dust sheets. 
Ive no reason to doubt what shes said. Both are what Id expect in the circumstances and 
would be reasonable precautions. I dont think that conclusion is affected by the fact that 
some paint did get through to the decking  precautions can be taken, but cannot be an 
absolute guarantee against any damage (the wording of the exclusion in the policy also 
suggests this by use of the word limit when referring to loss or damage).  
Based on this, Ive concluded QIC havent acted fairly in applying the exclusion for 
reasonable precautions.
Taking these points into account  particularly with the onus on QIC to show the exclusions 
apply  then Ive concluded QIC unfairly applied the exclusions to decline the claim. 
Ive also considered the additional point raised by QIC in their response to our investigators 
view, the poor state of the decking prior to the incident, which they say looked like it hadnt 
been maintained. However, this wasnt the reason they gave for declining Mrs Cs claim, so I 
dont think its reasonable to introduce it now. But in any event, the report from the surveyor 
states that there were no pre-existing or ongoing external building defects that were not 
peril-related. It also describes the general state of the property as fair state of repair.
Having reached these conclusions, Ive thought about what I think QIC need to do to put 
things right. As Ive concluded QIC cant rely on the policy exclusions to decline the claim, I 
think they should re-assess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy (including any excess under the policy, as appropriate). 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I require 
QIC Europe Ltd to:
Re-assess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
(including any excess under the policy, as appropriate). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman