DRN-2844697
The complaint
Mr M s complaint is about Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLCs (RSA) poor handling of 
his claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ms home was damaged due to a flood. He contacted RSA and made a claim. It sent a 
surveyor to assess the damage. The surveyor noted that extensive damage had been 
caused to several downstairs rooms and to Mr Ms contents. 
Mr M complains that he experienced poor communication with RSA throughout and that it 
provided him with incorrect advice regarding what his policy covered. In addition, there were 
delays in the work and the level of workmanship was poor. The contractors damaged central 
heating pipework, cut through electrical wire  which caused Mr M to be injured. And 
damaged some electrical sockets which it wouldnt replace. 
Mr M also said that it had been agreed with RSA that it would pay for a shed to store items 
that were undamaged, for RSA to later not agree to cover the costs of the shed. Similarly, Mr 
M said that RSA agreed to cover the cost of the replacement kitchen, but he was chased for 
payment by the contractor, as RSA failed to make payment. 
Finally, Mr M complained that RSA didnt quote for a like for like replacement flooring in his 
property. And the estimation given by RSA, was considerably lower than the quotes that he 
obtained from the independent contractors. 
Mr M made a complaint to RSA, but it didnt investigate it and so he referred his complaint to 
this service. One of our investigators considered the complaint and partially upheld it. She 
said that she couldnt ask RSA to pay for the cost of the damaged central heating pipe, as 
this was repaired. She couldnt ask RSA to pay anymore to the cost of the flooring, as it 
followed the policy terms and conditions, which allowed RSA to provide flooring based on 
what it wouldve cost them to replace that flooring. Mr M didnt provide RSA with a quotation 
for the shed and so it was fair for RSA not to pay this. 
She concluded that RSA had caused delays, were poor with communication, had provided 
poor workmanship and the injuries that Mr M suffered, caused him a level of distress and 
inconvenience. She recommended that RSA pay £300 compensation for this. She also 
recommended that RSA repair the damaged electrical sockets.
RSA accepted her findings.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigator. He said that he was unhappy as there were 
considerable delays and the work that shouldve been completed within six months was still 
not finished and the quality was poor. RSA had originally agreed to pay for the shed and it 
reneged on that promise. Regarding the flooring the quote provided by RSA wasnt on a like 
for like basis.
Finally, Mr M didnt accept the £300 compensation, as he felt that RSA should either provide 
a discount on his premiums or a written guarantee in respect of the work carried out and for 
an independent surveyor to inspect the work. 
Mr M asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should be partially upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 19 May 2021 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 18 
June 2021. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to partially uphold this complaint and Ill explain why Ive 
reached this decision.
The main issues here are:
The damage caused to the electrical sockets, poor workmanship and delays.
The kitchen units.
The storage shed.
The flooring.
Mr M said that he was provided with a poor level of service from RSA. This ranged from poor 
communication, missed appointments, contractors arriving at the property late and their 
unprofessional behaviour. He describes incidents where the level of workmanship was poor 
which related to the contractors cutting through water pipes twice, causing damage. And 
causing damage to an electrical cable, that resulted in Mr R sustaining injury. In addition, the 
contractors caused damage to several electrical sockets. 
Mr M complained about the length of time it had taken for the work to be done. He said that 
he had been told by RSA that the repairs would be completed within six months. However, 
work was still outstanding over a year after the original incident occurred. 
RSA hasnt provided an explanation as to the poor workmanship, missed appointments, 
delays or the contractors unprofessional behaviour. From the evidence, RSA didnt fully 
investigate the complaint and it remains breached. But it had accepted our investigators 
view and it has now paid for the damaged electrical sockets, which I think is fair and there is 
nothing further I can ask RSA to do in respect of the electrical sockets. 
But Mr M has sought a greater level of compensation for the trouble and upset that this had 
caused. I have carefully considered this. Im satisfied that Mr M wouldve experienced a level 
of inconvenience, especially as there has been no reasonable explanation from RSA about 
the delays, poor communication and poor workmanship. I note that the repairs that RSA said 
would be completed in six months are still outstanding and I have taken this into account 
when considering the level of compensation. I have next looked at the delay in payments for the kitchen units. I can see that there was a 
period of delay for RSA to process the payment. In addition, when the payment was 
authorised it was sent to Mr M rather than directly to the contractor. I understand that this 
wouldve been frustrating for Mr M. But RSA has now settled the payment and I have taken 
this into account in relation to the compensation. I think that overall, Mr M wouldve been 
inconvenienced, and I think that its reasonable for RSA to acknowledge the level of trouble 
and upset caused. So, I think its fair that RSA pay £500 for this. 
Mr M said that it was agreed with RSA that it would pay for the installation of a shed which 
could be used to store the undamaged items, as RSA told him that storage was one of the 
highest costs. Mr M said that RSA only paid for the concrete base for the shed and not the 
shed itself.
From the notes, RSA requested a quote which Mr M provided. I can see that it did consider 
offsetting the cost of the shed with the storage costs that it would have paid. But apart from 
this, I cant see that RSA responded to the quote Mr R submitted. In the circumstances, as 
there is no evidence from RSA that it didnt agree to pay for the shed, I think its reasonable 
for RSA to reimburse the cost of the shed. 
Finally, I have considered the replacement flooring. Mr M said that the terms and conditions 
of the policy didnt say that the same flooring was required. So, he felt that the quote for the 
replacement flooring that he provided should be accepted by RSA. 
I have looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. It said: The amount we pay where 
repairs are carried out will not exceed the lesser of: the cost of the work had it been 
completed by our nominated contractor or the cost of the work based upon the most 
competitive estimate or tender from your nominated contractors.
Mr M has said that the flooring wasnt a like-for-like replacement as the surveyor didnt take 
into consideration all the flooring, some of which was better-quality flooring. But RSA 
confirmed that its agreed to replace the flooring on a like-for-like basis and its estimation 
was based on the better-quality flooring. I understand that Mr R remains unhappy with this 
as it is lower than the independent contractors that he had found. But RSA are likely to have 
discounts that it can use. Furthermore, it is relying on the terms and conditions of the policy 
and I think is fair. So, I cant ask it to do anymore in relation to the flooring. 
Overall, RSA should put matters right, by reimbursing Mr M for the cost of the shed. I also 
think it should pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused. I am satisfied that RSA were fair in 
settling the cost of the kitchen and the electrical sockets, as well as agreeing to replace the 
flooring on a like-for-like basis. So, I wont be asking to it do anything further in relation to 
those costs. 
  
Putting things right
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties had no further comments to make about the provisional decision and both 
parties accepted the findings. So, my final decision will be the same as my provisional 
decision. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part. To put matters right, Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC to refund the cost of the shed. 
To pay Mr M £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC should also pay interest on the amounts above, at a 
rate of 8% simple a year from the date of payment, to settlement. 
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC to deduct tax 
from the interest payment referred above, Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax they deduct if he asks them for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman