DRN-4141835
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limiteds 
refusal to provide cover under the legal expenses section of their household insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mrs B had a number of disputes with her former employer going back a number of years. In 
2015 Mrs B made an application to the employment tribunal for discrimination and equal 
pay. She was not insured by DAS at that time and I understand she paid for her own 
representation. Mrs B says that in early 2016, she was advised that the chances of her claim 
succeeding were low, based on the evidence she had at that time, and that she should 
withdraw her claim. 
In 2019, Mrs B made a claim under her policy with DAS for cover to take action against her 
legal representatives, as she says they failed to advise her how to protect her claim so that 
she could pursue it when she had other evidence. 
DAS rejected the claim in early 2019, as it said the negligence Mrs B complained about 
happened in January/February 2016 but Mrs B did not have cover with DAS until August 
2016. DAS says it is a requirement of cover that the insured event happen during the period 
of insurance. Mrs B is unhappy about this.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend that the complaint 
be upheld, as she was satisfied that Mrs B did not have legal expenses insurance with DAS 
at the relevant time. While Mrs B had provided various insurance documents and the 
renewal notice for 2 August 2016, which says it included legal assistance cover with DAS, 
the renewal schedule for 2 August 2015 (which would cover the time in which the alleged 
negligence happened) did not include legal assistance cover. 
Mrs B does not accept the Investigators assessment and thinks her claim should be 
covered. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Bs policy states: We will cover the insured incidents in this section as long as the 
date of occurrence of the insured incident is during the period of insurance and within the 
territorial limit 
DAS seemed to accept in principle that a professional negligence claim would be an insured 
incident. However, to be covered the alleged negligence would have to have occurred during 
the period of insurance. Mrs B says she instructed the solicitors in January 2016 to represent 
her at the tribunal hearings in early February 2016. She says the solicitors told her she 
would not be able to bring the same claim based on the same set of facts but did not advise 
her she needed to explicitly reserve her right to bring a further claim at the time she withdrew 
the claim. This is the alleged negligence for which she wants cover to pursue a claim. 
Given what Mrs B has said, I agree with DAS that the incident would have occurred between 
January and February 2016. DAS says Mrs B did not have any cover with it in early 2016 
and only insured her from August 2016, so this incident did not happen with the period of 
insurance.
Mrs B has provided several documents showing that she had legal expenses cover, as part 
of her household insurance, at various times since 2002. However, crucially she has not 
provided any evidence that she had legal expenses cover in January/February 2016. 
The policy schedules I have seen for Mrs Bs household insurance for the periods August 
2014 to August 2015 and August 2015 to August 2016, do not state that legal expenses 
cover is included. The policy schedule for the period August 2016 to August 2017, does 
include legal expenses cover with DAS but this only started after the alleged negligence. 
Having considered everything provided to me, I have not seen any evidence that Mrs B had 
legal expense insurance with DAS at the time of the negligence for which she wanted to 
make a claim. The incident did not therefore occur within the period of insurance and DAS 
was entitled to refuse cover for this claim. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman