DRN-1397907
 
The complaint
Miss W complains about SSE Home Services Limiteds service under her boiler insurance 
cover. 
What happened
Miss W had boiler insurance cover administered by SSE. In November 2019 Miss W 
contacted SSE to report that her boiler wasn't providing central heating. SSEs engineer 
attended and found the boiler had a faulty gas valve but as the part was no longer available 
Miss W needed a new boiler.
Miss Ws complaint is that when an independent engineer looked at her boiler he told her 
SSEs engineer had left the boiler turned on which was dangerous. She wants SSE to pay 
her compensation for the risk it put her in and SSE to tell her what went wrong with the 
engineers work.
SSE said it had spoken to its engineer and he said hed made the boiler safe, which the 
engineers paperwork at the time confirmed.
Our investigator said there wasnt enough evidence that SSEs engineer had left the boiler 
unsafe. He explained to Miss W that even if the boiler had been unsafe our service wouldnt 
award compensation for something that could have, but didnt, happen. Our investigator also 
noted that SSE had reimbursed Miss W with the cost of a temporary heater as shed 
mentioned she hadnt received the money.
Miss W disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said her main concern was the 
boiler had been left unsafe by SSEs engineer, not any other matters. She also said shed 
got a letter from SSE upholding her complaint. She sent the letter to us which Ill detail in my 
findings below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The letter from SSE that Miss W sent us doesnt say it upholds her complaint. The letter 
says SSE will look into her complaint. Ive seen no evidence that SSE has accepted its 
engineer left Miss Ws boiler unsafe.
There is conflicting evidence about how SSEs engineer left the boiler. Miss W sent us a 
letter from an independent engineer who saw the boiler which says:
"SSE had been out and left the boiler at risk due to the non operation. I can confirm that the 
boiler was not isolated, the gas was not switched off or the electricity isolated. This could potentially have caused an issue due to the age of the appliance and the age of the gas 
valve component."
So the independent engineer says SSEs engineer left the boiler unsafe.
But when Miss W complained to SSE it spoke to its engineer who attended the boiler. SSEs 
records show the engineer said hed isolated the power and left the boiler in a safe condition. 
SSEs engineer's comments are supported by the paperwork he completed on the date he 
attended which says the boiler had been turned off and a warning label attached. So that 
evidence says SSEs engineer didnt leave the boiler unsafe.
Given the conflicting evidence Ive not able to say, even on the balance of probability, that 
SSEs engineer left the boiler unsafe.
Miss W has asked for compensation from SSE as she understood it put her at risk. Our 
investigator correctly explained that I make compensation awards on the basis of what 
actually happened, not what might have happened. Even if I was satisfied that SSEs 
engineer had left the boiler unsafe the independent engineer would have turned off the boiler 
immediately. So Miss W would have been aware of the situation for a very short time and 
there would have been minimal distress and/or inconvenience for her. 
Miss W has told us her main concern was about the boiler. But she has mentioned two other 
matters which Ill address for completeness. 
The evidence is that SSE did pay £19.99 for the cost of a temporary heater to Miss W within 
a reasonable timescale.
Miss W says she was sent a bill by a SSE related business even though they told her shed 
nothing to pay and then told her to ignore the bill as it shouldnt have been sent. Its not clear 
what the bill related to. But if Miss W wants to complain about that matter shell first need to 
complain to the relevant business. If agreement can't be reached then depending on the 
details she can make a separate complaint to us or the appropriate ombudsman service 
about that matter.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman