DRN-3297829
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc discriminated against him when they closed his 
accounts.
What happened
Mr C opened several accounts with Barclays. Within a few days of opening, one of the 
accounts received funds from another bank account. Barclays received notice from the 
sending bank that the funds deposited into Mr Cs account were the result of fraud. Barclays 
removed the money from Mr Cs account and carried out a review of his accounts.
Barclays decided that they no longer wished to offer banking services to Mr C and closed his 
accounts. Mr C denied knowing the funds were from fraud and claimed that Barclays had 
closed his account because of his nationality.
Mr C made a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and Barclays were asked to 
investigate. Barclays provided their evidence and declined to change their position. Barclays 
also confirmed they hadnt notified any external organisations about the closure of Mr Cs 
accounts. 
Mr C believed that Barclays had closed his accounts with them because theyd discriminated 
against him based on his nationality. Mr C explained that the closure of these accounts, 
along with other from different banks have deeply affected him. Barclays denied that there 
was any discrimination involved and confirmed it was because of how Mr C operated the 
accounts and hed received fraudulent funds into his account.
Mr Cs complaint was looked into by an investigator who thought Barclays had acted 
reasonably when they closed Mr Cs accounts. Mr C disagreed and asked for a further 
review of his complaint, which has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are other complaints made by Mr C related to a similar issue, but against other 
businesses which will be dealt with separately. Im addressing the complaint against 
Barclays here, as Im required to do by law.
Mr C has claimed that his accounts wouldnt have been closed if he was English, believing 
that Barclays decisions were based, in part, on his nationality. Whereas Barclays have 
stated that the closure is based on how the account was operated and that Mr C received 
fraudulent funds after only being open a few days.
Nationality is a protected characteristic within the Equality Act 2010. Alleged breaches of the 
Act are a matter for the courts to determine  and so I cannot make a finding on whether or 
not Barclays has acted unlawfully in discriminating against Mr C on the basis of a protected 
characteristic. But I can consider whether Mr C was treated in a fair and reasonable manner 
and whether I think he was treated differently to other customers.
From reading Mr Cs submissions, its apparent that he feels Barclays actions were 
motivated by discrimination because Mr Cs surname isnt English. So, Ive examined the 
reasons for closing Mr Cs account and the evidence Barclays provided relates solely to the 
activity on his account including the receipt of fraudulent funds. 
Ive not found any evidence that Barclays made their decision based on anything other than 
the activity on Mr Cs account. And its consistent with how theyve responded to similar 
concerns elsewhere so Im satisfied that theyve not treated Mr C any differently than they 
would any other customer. Only that the way the account had been run was sufficiently 
concerning to Barclays that they no longer wished to offer Mr C banking services.
Both Mr C and Barclays can choose to end their relationship with each other. The process is 
laid out in the terms and conditions that Mr C agreed to when he opened the account. In this 
case, Barclays issued an immediate closure because they considered Mr C was involved in 
receiving fraudulent funds, although Mr C later denied this. Barclays followed the terms and 
conditions laid out in their agreement with Mr C and from the evidence Ive examined, I think 
Barclays decision to immediately end their relationship with Mr C was a reasonable one. I 
hope that it helps Mr C to know that someone impartial and independent has looked into his 
concerns.
I realise Mr C was concerned that Barclays notified external organisations about his account 
closure, which could cause difficulties opening other accounts. Barclays confirmed that they 
only recorded the account closure on their internal systems.
Mr C has described the extreme stress he felt was caused by his accounts being closed. I 
can see why he would feel this way, because to Mr C, it would feel as though he was being 
treated unfairly by different businesses at the same time. I appreciate there was a 
cumulative effect caused by account closures across different businesses. But here, Im  
only dealing with the actions of Barclays and as Ive already mentioned, I dont think they 
acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman