DRN-3408944
The complaint
Mr S complains on behalf of his company, who I will refer to as S, that Towergate 
Underwriting Group Limited mis-sold him an insurance policy that didnt meet the needs of 
the company. 
What happened
Mr S was the director of S, a property management company. S owned a number of 
properties and in 2016 Mr S asked Towergate to arrange insurance policies for them. 
In December 2016 Mr S confirmed and paid for the policies. These subsequently renewed 
each year. 
In 2021 Mr S made a complaint to Towergate, as he had discovered one of the properties 
didnt have any cover for loss of rent following a claim. He said hed asked Towergate for the 
same cover he had had previously, and this included loss of rent. So it hadnt met the needs 
of S when the policy was sold.
Towergate didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr S had been provided with the full details of 
the policies before he agreed to take them out. And the documentation clearly showed that 
loss of rent wasnt included for the property in question. It said it was for Mr S to ensure the 
policies were suitable for S needs and therefore didnt agree the policy had been mis-sold.
Mr S didnt agree. He said a previous quote provided by Towergate had included loss of rent 
for the property. So he had been led to believe that the quote he confirmed would also have 
this included. He brought S complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld, as she thought Towergate had 
provided enough information about the policy for Mr S to make an informed decision. And it 
was for him to check the details of the policies to ensure they met S needs. 
Mr S didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance policy is sold by a broker as part of a non-advised sale, as here, the 
broker has an obligation under rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to 
provide clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy. So Ive considered 
whether Towergate met these obligations here.
Mr S originally approached Towergate towards the end of 2016 to buy policies for a number 
of properties owned by S.  He provided a copy of a renewal quote he had received from his 
previous broker and requested like for like cover. I can see the renewal quote included loss 
of rent for the property in question. 
Over the weeks that followed a number of conversations took place between Mr S and 
Towergate. Unfortunately, the phone calls are no longer available so Ive had to rely on 
emails and internal notes provided by Towergate and Mr S. From these I can see that some 
different quotes were discussed, but the one provided was agreed upon largely based on 
price. Towergate has shown that the details of the policy were sent to Mr S to review and he 
agreed to the policy cover. The information it provided shows clearly that theres no loss of 
rent cover for the property in question, as part of a summary document that lists each of the 
properties on cover.  So I think this information would have been clear to Mr S when he 
reviewed the policy documents. 
It is also of note that the policy was then renewed each year up until 2020, with policy 
documents being sent to Mr S each time, containing the same information.
I note Mr S has said Towergate provided a different quote that did include loss of rent, so he 
thought it was also included in the one he confirmed. While I can see other quotes with 
different inclusions were discussed, this doesnt change my view that he had clear 
information about the policy that he confirmed and purchased and its inclusions. 
So while I understand Mr S originally intended the policies to match those offered by the 
other broker, I dont think Towergate has done anything wrong here. It provided clear 
information to Mr S that allowed him to review the cover and ensure it met S needs. And this 
information clearly stated that loss of rent was included for the property in question. While 
Towergate have an obligation to provide clear information, the onus is on its customer to 
ensure the cover meets their needs. Especially when considering Mr S took the policy out in 
his capacity as director of S  as a commercial customer. 
Based on this, Im satisfied that Towergate provided clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the policy it was selling. And that Mr S had ample opportunity to check this 
at both inception and each renewal. 
It is also of note that when Mr S made a claim on the policy, the policy was subsequently 
cancelled by the insurer due to a misrepresentation. So even if I were to say the policy had 
been mis-sold here, I cant see that S has lost out. As it didnt have a successful claim where 
loss of rent would be payable, even if it were included in policy cover. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold S complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S, on behalf of 
S, to accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman