DRN-3879810
The complaint
Mr R applied to remortgage his home through a broker, Fluent Mortgages Limited. He 
complains that his mortgage offer was withdrawn, but Fluent never told him this. Mr R said 
he turned down a comparable offer at the time, and hes paying much more interest now.
What happened
Mr R said he was applying to remortgage with Fluent, but his mortgage offer was withdrawn, 
and Fluent didnt tell him. Mr R said that some time after hed made an application through 
Fluent, his existing mortgage lender had made a comparable offer to him. He told us he 
hadnt accepted that because he had signed a contract with Fluent, so he was unsure where 
he stood legally. 
Mr R said when he eventually found out that Fluent wasnt going to be able to arrange a 
mortgage for him, his existing lender was no longer offering the same deal. So he said he 
was paying much more now, and he expected to pay about £4,000 more over the next few 
years. 
Mr R said Fluent had accepted responsibility for what went wrong, but it had only offered £50 
in compensation, which was nowhere near enough to make up for his losses. 
Fluent said that in late October 2021, it had obtained a decision in principle for Mr R, from a 
lender that I wont name here. But once it had obtained full details from Mr R of his salary, 
and sent these to the lender, it said it wouldnt offer Mr R as much as he wanted to borrow. 
Fluent tried resubmitting the application, with some additional detail, but the lender said it still 
couldnt offer Mr R as much as he wanted. 
Fluent said it should have contacted Mr R at this time, to tell him that the application had 
been declined, but it couldnt show it had done that. It was sorry that this had happened. But 
it said this lender had never agreed to lend Mr R the amount he wanted to borrow, and no 
binding mortgage offer had ever been sent to Mr R.
Fluent said because this lender wouldnt lend to Mr R, it didnt think that what hed lost was 
the difference between the mortgage it was applying for, on his behalf, and the one he 
eventually got. Fluent wouldnt pay that difference to Mr R. 
Mr R said he might not have got this deal from the lender that Fluent was talking to, but his 
existing lender had offered him a similar deal, and he hadnt taken that up, because of 
Fluent. So he said that meant he had lost out.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld in part. She said Fluent accepted it 
should have told Mr R that his mortgage application had been declined. And she didnt think 
the amount it had offered was enough to make up for the impact of not doing that. So she 
said Fluent should pay Mr R a total of £250 in compensation. But she didnt think Fluent had 
to cover the difference in interest that Mr R wanted. She said she would have expected Mr R 
to check on his mortgage application, in the time that had elapsed after the last contact from 
Fluent. And she said Fluent was right to say Mr R had never received a binding offer. 
Mr R didnt accept that. He said he was out of pocket by almost £4,000, and the higher 
payment our investigator suggested still wasnt enough to make up for his losses. He wanted 
his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
I do think Fluent has provided Mr R with poor service. It ought to have let him know that the 
lender hed applied to could only offer him a smaller amount of money. I think it would be 
both disappointing and frustrating for Mr R, only to find this out several months later. So I 
agree with our investigator that Fluent should increase its compensation offer to Mr R. 
I think Fluent should pay Mr R a total of £250 in compensation. It looks as if Fluent has 
already paid Mr R £50 for this complaint, so I will allow Fluent to count that towards the total 
Im awarding, if this has since been paid.
But I dont think Fluent has to pay for the additional loss that Mr R has told us about, around 
£4,000 that he said hed pay in additional interest over the next few years. I also think that 
the lender Mr R applied to, through Fluent, didnt ever send him an offer  it just wasnt 
willing to lend him the amount of money he wanted. And I dont think its Fluents fault if Mr R 
turned down a comparable mortgage offer made by another lender. I know that Fluent could, 
and should, have told Mr R that his lending wasnt going ahead. But I also think Mr R could 
have checked with Fluent whether his application was proceeding there. 
I think its important to note that, at the point when Mr R says he turned down this other offer, 
he hadnt received anything from Fluent saying his application had been approved. So Im 
sorry to have to tell Mr R that I dont think it would be fair and reasonable in this case for me 
to hold Fluent responsible for any losses Mr R incurred because he didnt contact Fluent, 
and turned down a comparable offer from another lender without seeking the reassurance 
that his existing application had been approved. 
I understand that Mr R will be very disappointed by my decision, but I think Fluent only has 
to pay him the increased amount of compensation which I have set out above. I dont think 
the remainder of his complaint should be upheld.My final decision
My final decision is that Fluent Mortgages Limited must pay Mr R £250 in compensation. 
Fluent Mortgages Limited can count towards that amount any payment of compensation it 
has already made to Mr R for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman