DRN-3565033
The complaint
Mr C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund disputed transactions 
made from his account.  
What happened
Mr C has several accounts with NatWest, including a current account and a credit card. 
On 30 November 2020 just over £50,000 was moved via mobile banking from Mr Cs current 
account to his credit card. 
Two payments totalling £25,000, of £20,000 and £5,000, were then sent from Mr Cs credit 
card to his trading account with a third party business Ill call E. The money was then moved 
out of E, via transfer from an E debit card account to a third parties bank account. The 
remaining credit balance on Mr Cs credit card, of just over £24,000, was later returned to his 
current account. 
Mr C advised hed invited two women to stay at his property, and he believes whilst living 
with him they drugged him, gained access to his mobile phone and banking app and having 
done so carried out all the above payments, which he didnt consent to. He also reported 
having around £5,000 stolen from a safe at his property. 
Mr C complained to NatWest saying he didnt carry out the transactions. NatWest looked into 
Mr Cs complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary they thought Mr C most likely authorised 
them. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint. Mr C provided a significant amount of 
evidence including details of an ongoing police investigation, images of social media 
conversations with the alleged fraudsters and information from his account with E. 
But they didnt uphold it  in summary they thought Mr C most likely authorised them. They 
said this because:
To carry out the transactions a fraudster needed access to Mr Cs phone and his 
banking application but theres no plausible explanation for this.
The debit card used was sent to Mr Cs address but its not clear how a fraudster got 
access to this. 
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view. In summary he said:
The fraudsters could have seen him log into his phone and remember the passcode 
to gain access at a later time.
The fraudsters tried to carry out more disputed transactions than were approved, 
theyd set up future dated transactions but were blocked by Mr C and NatWest.
The fraudsters applied for a debit card account with E, which was linked to his trading 
account (with E) but he couldnt see it on the website.
He wasnt aware the E debit card had been ordered, so they could have easily 
intercepted it at his home address.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, NatWest can hold Mr C liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Cs genuine online account details  
were used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say 
that is not, on its own, enough to enable NatWest to hold him liable. So I also need to think 
about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr C consented to the 
transactions being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for NatWest to conclude that Mr C 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
To carry out the disputed transactions a fraudster would have needed access to 
Mr Cs mobile phone and online banking details. Mr Cs advised that at the time of 
the disputed transactions hed allowed two women to stay at his home address  
which is how he thinks they could have got hold of his mobile phone. However, theyd 
have needed to take and replace it without him noticing along with obtaining the 
passcode  which he didnt share. Hes advised this could have been overlooked by 
the fraudsters. However, on balance I think its unlikely theyd have been able to 
overlook his passcode and on a separate occasion take and replace his mobile 
phone without him noticing. 
To access Mr Cs online banking a fraudster would have needed Mr Cs security 
information or biometrics. Mr Cs provided proof that two facial IDs were saved on his 
phone  however it isnt clear if either of these were loaded without his consent. 
Mr Cs advised he didnt share his security information with anyone, and to add new 
facial ID a fraudster would need to know Mr Cs passcode for his device. 
The disputed transactions were moved to Mr Cs account with E, then transferred out 
from the debit card account in his name. Mr Cs argues that the E debit card account 
was opened without his consent, however the card was ordered and delivered to his 
home address. And on being received successfully activated via Es website. 
E have advised to order the debit card a fraudster would have needed to access 
Mr Cs trading platform  this means they would have needed his E log on and 
security details. They also explained that Mr Cs trusted device was used to log into 
his account to order the debit card and carry out the transfers  this means the 
fraudsters would have needed further access to Mr Cs device without his knowledge.
For the reasons Ive outlined above I think on balance Mr C authorised the disputed 
transactions. It follows I wont be asking NatWest to do anything further.  My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman