DRN-2975648
The complaint
Mr J complains that Allay Claims Limited are asking him to pay their success fee for 
payment protection insurance (PPI) claims he said he hadnt authorised them to make.
What happened
Mr J said hed made successful mis-sold PPI claims with one of his lenders Ill call N. But 
he kept getting text messages throughout the day and night from Allay asking him to pay 
their success fee. Mr J said hed never asked Allay to do any work for him. And the success 
of his mis-sold PPI claim(s) was due to his son making a claim directly with N. He 
complained to Allay.
Allay said a letter of authority (LoA) had been signed in July 2019 by Mr J and theyd acted 
in good faith in submitting this to his lenders and pursuing PPI claims based on the 
information provided to them in the initial application. They said theyd updated Mr J when 
PPI had been found, and theyd provided him with their claims service.  Allay said N told 
them when Mr Js claims were successful, and as Mr J hadnt cancelled his agreement with 
them, they said their fee was justified.
Mr J wasnt happy with Allays response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said, on balance, Mr J had authorised Allay to act on his behalf. And as his 
claim was successful their fee was justified.
Mr J didnt agree, he said the signature on the LoA wasnt his, and hed been away from 
home when Allay said the claim was submitted. He didnt agree that his claims were 
successful because of Allay. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Allay feel strongly that the success of Mr Js claim was because of the submission they
made for him. Mr J is adamant that his son contacted his lender directly and that he hadnt 
authorised Allay to act on his behalf.
Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I have to base my decision
on what I think most likely happened. 
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. Mr J has said the signature on Allays LoA isnt his. But its not our role to 
validate a signature, we arent handwriting experts and in the case of forgery it would be for 
a criminal court to consider. 
In making my decision I need to determine whether I think its more likely than not Mr J had 
or hadnt authorised Allay to act on his behalf. If I consider he has, whether Allay knew he no 
longer wanted them to work for him. And to see whether Allay has acted fairly and 
reasonably in their actions with him.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI 
claims to be made. Leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management 
companies, such as Allay, amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected 
high volume of claims. And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data 
subject request. Any further information such as that provided in a PPI questionnaire could be 
used to strengthen the claim that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So, for some lenders the 
submission of a LoA was accepted as a claim for mis-sold PPI and no further information was 
needed for them to investigate the mis-sold PPI claim. This is generally referred to as the claim 
being auto converted.  Any claim received after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have 
been accepted by the lender(s) unless there were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
So, Ive looked at what has happened. 
Allay has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in July 2019. Some of
the personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Mr J has given this
service. The application also needed details of Mr Js lenders, and these details were also
provided. Allay has shown the audit trail for the on-line application and the information that 
was supplied. They said that the terms and conditions had to be agreed to for the application 
to progress. And by agreeing to the terms and conditions this would have generated the LoA 
populated with the personal details that had been supplied. Allay said the LoA couldnt be 
submitted without a signature being added. And an acknowledgement would have been sent 
on submission. From their records I can see the LoA was submitted to Mr Js lender a couple 
of days later.
Allays terms and conditions say:
We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender. If
the claim is successful, our normal fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will
apply.
In August 2019, I can see from Allays records that N told them Mr J had PPI on his
loan account. Allay emailed Mr J to notify him that PPI had been found and to confirm his 
claim had been submitted in line with their terms and conditions. They also asked Mr J to 
complete a PPI questionnaire. The notification provided a link to the PPI questionnaire. So, 
from this point Allay would have been providing their claims service. PPI being found didnt 
mean Mr Js claim was successful as it needed to be considered by N whether the PPI had 
been mis-sold to him. This is why the PPI questionnaire was included. As I outlined about 
the information asked for in this questionnaire could be used to strengthen a claim for mis-
sold PPI but this didnt mean a claim couldnt be considered without one.
I know Mr J initially said he hadnt received any notification from Allay. But Allay has shown 
the emails were sent to the email address held on record, and Mr J has since confirmed he 
did receive emails from them. So, I cant hold Allay responsible for Mr J not reading these 
emails. 
I can see in mid-September 2019 N sent an acknowledgement to Allay to confirm receipt of 
the submitted claim referring to Mr J as Your client  Allays records show further email updates were sent to Mr J. And in March 2020 Allay wrote to him, the letter was headed 
Great news and referred to their previous attempts to contact him. The letter again 
confirmed that as hed PPI a mis-sold PPI claim was being investigated by N.
In May 2020, N notified both Allay and Mr J that the mis-sold PPI claims had been 
successful and the amount of compensation to be awarded. I know Mr J said hed claimed 
directly with N but I havent seen any evidence of this. And I think N recognised Allay as 
Mr Js representative and that they werent dealing solely with him.
I will now look to see whether Mr J asked Allay to stop working for him.
Allays terms and conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14-day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us. If at any time during the 14-day cooling off period we 
obtain an offer of compensation for you, our normal fee will be payable.
And go on to explain the cancellation charges if the agreement is cancelled outside of the 
14-day cooling off period.
As Allay emailed Mr J on 14 August 2019 to tell him PPI had been found and that theyd
submitted his complaint to N. Id consider the 14-day cooling off period to start from that
date. So, Mr J would have had up to  27 August 2019 to cancel the agreement free of any
charge. I havent seen any evidence that Mr J asked Allay to cancel the agreement either
within or after the 14-day cooling off period. 
I can see Mr J asked Allay to remove him from email marketing in early May 2020, but I 
havent seen any evidence that Mr J asked Allay to cancel or question them as to why they 
were contacting him about a PPI claim. And by not telling Allay he didnt want them to act on 
his behalf before the end of the 14-day cooling off period, theyd continued to provide their 
claims service. 
Mr J said he couldnt have made the on-line application as he was away from home at the 
time it was made. But the on-line application was made 22 July 2019. Mr J has shown he 
was away from home, staying at a hotel until 21 July 2019.
The agreement Mr J would have had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. This means 
Allay charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. 
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a 
claim was successful, Allays fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they 
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. As I think Mr Js 
claim was submitted by Allay just prior to the August deadline, and the claim was successful. 
I think Allay is justified in charging their fee.
I know Mr J will be disappointed with my decision but taking all the above into account Im 
not upholding his complaint. As I think it more likely that  Mr J had authorised Allay to act on 
his behalf in making a mis-sold PPI claim and the agreement hadnt been cancelled. As the 
claim was successful Allay can charge their fee.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before .
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman