DRN-3029013
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs R says Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) mis-sold PPI.
What happened
Our adjudicators most recent view is that the mis-sale element of this complaint should not 
be upheld. Through her representative, Mrs R disagreed with that view. In the meantime, 
Tesco offered to refund some of the cost of the PPI because it failed to disclose the high 
commission and profit share Mrs R paid, and this was unfair to her.  I understand there were 
arrears on Mrs Rs account and so Tesco used this compensation to reduce that outstanding 
balance. 
Those representing Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. They didnt raise any 
new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Tesco should have disclosed the 
commission it received , but that its offer to refund to Mrs Rs account some of the cost of 
PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised 
my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
The parties agree that PPI was sold to Mrs R by post at the same time as she applied for her 
credit card. So I think shed have been able to complete that application in her own time and 
at her own pace. 
The first thing Ive considered in this case is whether Tesco made it clear to Mrs R that she 
didnt have to take the PPI policy out if she didnt want it. I can see from the application form 
that Mrs R ticked the relevant box to indicate she wanted a PPI policy. I think it would have 
been clear to Mrs R that if she didnt want this policy, she could have just left that section 
blank. 
Tesco didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R. That means it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information 
about the cover so she could decide if it was a good fit for her needs.
I accept its possible the information Tesco gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. I have to 
look at whether Mrs R would have still bought the policy if things had happened as they 
should have done. To help me decide on that point, Ive looked at the terms and conditions 
of the policy. And Ive also thought carefully about what Mrs R told us about her personal 
circumstances.  
I can see that if shed made a successful claim, 10% of Mrs Rs credit card balance would 
have been repaid for up to 12 months for every month she was out of work because of an 
accident, sickness or if she was made redundant. The credit card balance would have been 
covered in full in the unfortunate event of her death. 
I can see there was some confusion about Mrs Rs sick pay entitlement from work. But it has 
now been clarified that she would have had six months full pay and six months half pay from 
her employer. So it follows that the PPI would have lasted for longer than her full sick pay 
entitlement. I understand Mrs R didnt have any other means to fall back on if she wasnt 
working, so I can see how the cover could have been useful if she couldnt work.
I can see Mrs R had a significant musculoskeletal operation in 2002 and she was off work for 
a year. I asked our adjudicator to find out whether this medical condition was bothering Mrs 
R when the cover was sold in 2001. It is unfortunate that no reply was received to either of 
those requests for further information. On that basis, I have relied upon Tescos records that 
Mrs R told it she was in good health in 2001, and I note she appears to have been 
undertaking a physical job. So I find she is unlikely to have had a medical condition that 
would have affected her decision to take PPI out in 2001. 
I can see from the terms and conditions that there were some additional evidential 
requirements around back and mental health conditions which may not have been brought to 
Mrs Rs attention. But I dont think Mrs R would have reasonably thought she could make a 
claim without providing some supportive medical evidence. So I dont think these limitations 
would have caused her to act differently had she known about them. 
I havent seen anything unusual about Mrs Rs employment circumstances that would have 
prevented her from making a successful claim if she needed to. So I cant say Mrs R would 
have declined the cover if Tesco had given her more or better information about it. 
Mrs Rs representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Tesco should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means Tesco doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Tesco should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Tescos offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for that is fair. My 
reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Tesco didnt tell Mrs R about the high levels of commission and profit share she paid in this 
case. 
So taking into account: 
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Tesco and Mrs R was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Tesco didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case;
I dont think Tesco acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs R because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipMrs Rs representative made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on this complaint.
In summary, it was argued Mrs R should get back all of the PPI premiums because: Tesco 
failed to tell her about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio 
and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant the policy was 
poor value, I should find that Mrs R wouldnt have taken out the policy had she known about 
the level of commission and Tesco should refund all the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, at this stage, my role as 
an ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mrs R in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Tesco not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
the FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus 
interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level 
of commission; and
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in 
my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; 
I am not, as Mrs Rs representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Tescos failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above. I think it was fair for Tesco to calculate compensation in line with 
the FCAs guidance and return some of the money Mrs R paid for her PPI policy. I am 
satisfied it was reasonable for Tesco to use those funds to reduce the arrears on her credit 
card account. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs R 
with the policy Ive concluded above she would still have taken out if Tesco had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.So I consider that Tescos payment to Mrs Rs account of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated 
interest where applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the 
circumstances. As I understand this refund to the account has already been done, I dont 
require Tesco to take any further action. 
 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Rs complaint or make any award for 
this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Tesco 
Personal Finance PLC must refund to Mrs R an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable). As this has already been refunded to Mrs Rs credit card account with an 
outstanding balance, Tesco Personal Finance PLC is not required to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman