DRN-1430892
The complaint
Mr G complains Barclays Bank Plc allowed a fraudster to open an account in his name.  He 
further complains that he now has a default recorded on his credit file because of this 
account and would like both the account and default removed from his credit file.
What happened
Mr G first raised the issue of this account with Barclays in 2017.  He followed this up with a 
complaint in 2019.  He said he could see an account with Barclays registered on his credit 
file and yet he had never had a banking relationship with it.
When Barclays investigated his complaint, it concluded Mr G had applied for the account 
himself and so it was right that it appeared on his credit file. It gave the following reasons in 
support of its conclusion:
-the account had been opened in 2012 using Mr Gs correct details including his home 
address;
-the account had been opened in branch and Mr Gs passport had been used as proof 
of identification. Barclays had retained a photocopy of the passport;
-statements had been sent to Mr Gs home address so he should have been alerted 
sooner if he had no knowledge of the account.
When Mr G brought his complaint to this service, our investigator didnt think he could ask 
Barclays to do anymore  so Mr G asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For very much the same reasons as the investigator, I wont be asking Barclays to do 
anymore.
I have to make a decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened here  and 
whether Barclays has responded fairly and reasonably to Mr Gs complaint.  On that basis, I 
think the evidence suggests its more likely than not that the account was opened and used 
by Mr G himself.
I dont think a fraudster would open an account and use it in the way this account has been 
used for a period of years.  There is simply to benefit to a third person to do so.  And I 
remind myself that the document which was used as identification was Mr Gs passport.  He 
has not provided any credible explanation to this service how a fraudster might have had 
access to this.
The investigator rightfully pointed out to Mr G that the account was opened a few weeks 
after the passport was issued.  I think this supports the assertion that it was Mr G who used 
it to open the account in branch.
I have also noted that correspondence and statements were sent to Mr Gs address.  Mr G 
says he shares identical initials with other members of his household, but I am afraid that 
doesnt explain why someone had not picked up on this correspondence sooner and alerted 
Barclays to the fact that they knew nothing of this account.
Mr G also says he was abroad at the time of the account opening and therefore could not 
have opened the account.  But I think it is likely that he was travelling back to the UK and so, 
entirely possible that he was able to open the account in person.
So, for those reasons, I have seen nothing to suggest Barclays has been unfair or 
unreasonable in how it dealt with Mr Gs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman