DRN-2718033
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Haven Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim he 
made on his motor insurance policy and then cancelled his policy. Reference to Haven 
includes its agents.
What happened
Mr B holds a motor insurance policy with Haven. He said he was visiting a friend one 
evening and parked outside their house. He said when he returned to his car, he noticed it 
was damaged and thought it must have been hit by another car while it was parked. Mr B 
made a claim to Haven for the damage to his car.
Haven declined Mr Bs claim. It said inconsistencies in his account questioned whether the 
incident had happened in the way Mr B had described it. And it said the engineers report 
also indicated the incident didnt happen as Mr B had described. It said because of this, not 
only was it declining his claim, but it was also cancelling his policy.
Mr B complained to Haven about its decision. He didnt think it was fair it declined his claim 
and said he had an engineers report that he thought supported that the incident did happen 
as hed described it.
Haven maintained its decision, so Mr B brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into Mr Bs complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought Haven was 
acting reasonably when declining the claim on the basis that Mr B hadnt shown it had 
happened in the way hed described it. And she thought Haven was acting fairly and in line 
with Mr Bs policy when cancelling it.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the case has been passed to 
me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I understand this wont be the answer 
he was hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning.
Its not uncommon for an insurer to require a policyholder to show that theyve suffered a 
loss thats covered by their policy. In motor insurance policies, this will usually mean the 
policyholder needs to show their car has been damaged or stolen. But key to this is the 
policyholder being able to show that the alleged incident happened in the way that they 
described it.
In Mr Bs case, hes said his car was damaged while he was inside his friends house. So I 
appreciate he wont know exactly what happened to cause the damage to his car  because 
he didnt see it.
Haven instructed an inspector to take statements from both Mr B and his friend. And it also 
instructed an engineer to assess the damage to Mr Bs car to see if the damage was 
consistent with the version of events provided by Mr B.
In doing so, the engineer noticed that the damage to Mr Bs car wasnt consistent with the 
circumstances Mr B described.
Mr B said his car was parked on the road, with all four wheels on the road when he went to 
visit his friend. But when he returned to his car, he noticed that two wheels were up on the 
kerb, which he thought odd. Hes said it was this that alerted him and his friend to the 
damage on his car and Mr B says his car must have been hit and bounced up on to the 
pavement.
The engineer noted that there was pre-existing damage, but no fresh damage to the alloys 
on the side closest to the kerb, and they said if Mr Bs car was hit with force to bounce it up 
on to the kerb, theyd expect to see damage to the alloys and the wheels.
Mr B has provided an engineers report which says there is damage to the alloys on the side 
closest to the kerb. But this report doesnt comment on the cause of this damage, or when it 
likely was inflicted. In fact, this report specifically says that the engineer isnt aware of the 
alleged circumstances.
Taking both accounts into consideration, Im satisfied Haven can rely on the engineers 
report commenting on how the damage likely occurred. I appreciate Mr Bs report confirms 
there is damage to the wheels, but this isnt in contradiction to the report from the engineer 
Haven instructed. And crucially, Mr Bs report doesnt take into consideration the alleged 
circumstances of the incident. The key point is the absence of new damage, or damage 
consistent with Mr Bs car being hit up onto the pavement.
Haven also noticed inconsistences in the version of events provided by Mr B and his friend. 
And based on these inconsistencies and the engineers report, I understand Havens 
concerns. Im satisfied Havens decision to not pay Mr Bs claim on the basis that Mr B 
hasnt shown hes suffered a loss as hes described it, is a fair and reasonable outcome in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Haven also decided to cancel Mr Bs policy. And based on the concerns it has around the 
circumstances of this claim, Im satisfied that decision too, is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman