DRN-3793218
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with AXA Insurance Companys handling of a claim he made on his motor 
insurance policy.
All references to AXA include its agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr L made a claim on his policy when he had an accident, and AXA deemed the car a total 
loss. He says he was offered around £11,500 which he disputed, and the offer was 
increased to around £12,000, but Mr L was not happy with this amount either. He says AXA 
told him to find examples of similar cars available in the market. Mr L says he found 
approximately ten cars that ranged in price from £13,790 to £17,000. After further 
discussions, AXA increased its valuation to £12,995. Mr L complained and it increased its 
valuation a final time to £14,000 which he accepted, but he said he wasnt happy with the 
process.
Mr L brought his complaint to us and he said:
 
that the process of bartering, over the money he was being offer for his car was 
inappropriate and seemed designed to make it difficult to achieve the purpose of his 
insurance policy, which is to provide him with a vehicle of equivalent market value to 
the one that had been written off. 
That when AXA finally increase the valuation to £14,000, it was still inadequate to 
provide an equivalent car. He would like AXA to pay an additional £2,000 because he 
says thats what he wouldve needed to get an equivalent car to the one he lost.
Mr L says the system of communication by AXA was drawn out, unclear and 
confused. 
He thinks it should make its decision-making and communication process more 
efficient and effective. 
AXA acknowledged that the service it provided could be better. It said its agents usually deal  
with disputes over the value of the car on its behalf, and it wasnt acceptable that Mr L was 
passed from one department to another. It paid him £50 for the distress caused by this, and 
an additional £25 for the delays in responding to his complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought there were parts were AXA provided 
poor service but thought it had addressed this. He carried out his own research using vehicle 
valuation guides. And he thought that as AXAs valuation exceeded the figures obtained 
from the guides, it was fair. Our investigator also said AXAs initial offer of £11,500 was 
within the range of values from the guides, so he thought it was reasonable for it to have 
offered this amount initially.
 
Mr L didnt accept what the investigator said and asked for an ombudsmans decision 
because:
He says £75 is unlikely to be the sort of penalty that will financially cause AXA to 
change its practices. 
He says the cars he saw were a good deal over £11,000. And he thinks the criteria 
AXA said the cars he found had to meet was too narrow. 
He also says when AXA told him the values it had seen were less than his, it failed to 
tell him which firms it was using. 
He thinks the offer being the cheapest amount meant he was less likely to be able to 
get a car from a reputable dealer or one that wasnt across the country.
Our investigator said it isnt our role to tell a business how it should operate, nor can we 
punish it for its failings. He also explained that we wouldnt consider a lower amount unfair if 
its within the range of valuations weve obtained from the guides. As an agreement couldnt 
be reached, Ive been asked to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
Ill explain why.
Firstly, I understand Mr L would like AXA to amend its decision-making process when it 
comes to settling a total loss claim. He also expressed concern about the impact of AXAs 
processes on other consumers. I think its important to highlight that the processes and 
systems it has in place are business decisions for it to make, they arent something we 
would look to interfere with. We also dont penalise a business for its errors. Rather, we look 
to resolve individual disputes between a business and its consumer. So, if something has 
gone wrong, we expect AXA to fairly compensate for the impact it had on Mr L. 
Valuation
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the vehicle 
fairly. Under the terms of Mr Ls policy, AXA must pay him the market value of the car at the 
time of the loss, less his excess.
The market value is defined in the policy as:
The cost of replacing your vehicle with a vehicle of the same make, model, specification, 
age, mileage and condition as your vehicle was immediately before the loss or damage you 
are claiming for
The valuation of a used car isnt an exact science, and its standard practice for the industry 
to use valuation guides to work out the estimated market value of a car. And its not 
unreasonable that it does so as the valuation the guides give are based on national research 
on likely selling prices of similar cars with similar age and mileage for sale at the time of loss. 
We usually find the guides are more reliable than individual adverts, which can vary 
significantly in price. And we often find a fair valuation falls within the range of prices 
obtained from the valuation guides.
I appreciate Mr L doesnt think AXA should make an offer at the lower end of the range of 
values obtained from the guides. And I agree that the process of valuing a car shouldnt be a 
negotiation, rather AXA should make a reasonable offer to enable him to replace his car. 
AXAs engineers report shows it looked at two guides and these produced values of £11,776 and £12,600. Mr L said he was initially offered around £11,500. Its not clear 
whether this was before or after the excess was deducted from the figure. Even if the excess 
hadnt yet been deducted, Mr L says AXA amended its offer to around £12,000 which is 
within a reasonable range. So, I think it was fair for it to make this offer to him. 
Our investigator consulted the same guides as AXA as well as a third valuation guide and 
these gave the following values for the car: 
£11,195
£13,632
£12,240
The offer of £12,000 falls within the range of figures Ive seen, so even if it didnt increase its 
offer further, Im likely to have found it was reasonable. 
AXAs notes show it reviewed the adverts Mr L provided and found several were outside the 
criteria it set out. While I think AXA should take his adverts into consideration, I dont think it 
means it had to base its offer solely on the prices from them. I would expect it to consider 
them along with the guide prices and any further research it carried out. AXA eventually 
increased its offer to £12,995. This is higher than the guide prices it found and still within the 
range of figures our investigator obtained. Ive also looked at adverts for similar cars on sale 
and this figure is higher than most of the prices Ive seen for similar cars, so I think this offer 
was also fair. 
Mr L doesnt think he should have had to negotiate a higher offer with AXA. I appreciate this 
was a difficult time, and Ive seen the images from the accident, so I understand why it was 
upsetting for Mr L. Unfortunately, using financial services wont always be without some 
inconvenience. As I said, I find its earlier offer was fair, but as Mr L wasnt happy with it, I 
think it was bound to require some involvement from him to explain and evidence why he 
didnt think its offer was right. For this reason, I also dont think it was unreasonable for AXA 
to have asked Mr L to provide examples of similar cars available on the market. 
Mr L says the criteria he was given was too narrow, but I dont agree. The policy is intended 
to cover the loss and provides for a similar car. Mr L said amongst other things, he was told 
the cars he found had to be the same make, model, transmission, within 5,000 miles either 
side of his car at the time of the incident and within the same six months production period. I 
dont find this unreasonable. Considering these factors can all have an impact on the price of 
a car, I think it would be necessary to find cars as close to the one Mr L lost in order to make 
a fair comparison and reach a pre-accident value for his car. 
AXA eventually settled the claim by increasing its valuation to £14,000, but Mr L would like it 
to pay to cover some of the money he borrowed to buy a replacement car. AXAs final value 
of £14,000 is above the figures produced by the guides, and I find this more than 
reasonable. Ultimately, Im satisfied AXAs valuation of Mr Ls car is fair and reasonable. So, 
I dont think it needs to pay any additional costs he incurred in replacing his car. Claims handling
There is no dispute Mr L was passed from one department to the other when he shouldnt 
have been, and I can understand this will have been frustrating for him. Had Mr L accepted 
the offer he was made, which I think was fair, he wouldnt have needed to phone AXA. 
Nevertheless, its already acknowledged and paid compensation for the poor service he 
received. 
Ive thought about how long AXA took to deal with Mr Ls claim. I can see it took over three 
weeks for the first payment to be made to him, but I think this delay was due to the fact Mr L 
wasnt happy with the settlement he was offered. And, as I set out above, I dont find it acted 
unreasonably in this regard. So, I dont think it needs to compensate him for this. 
I understand Mr L asked AXA for evidence of the cars it found which were cheaper than the 
adverts he had seen. I think it will have been frustrating that he didnt get a response to this. 
I can also see from its notes it didnt always phone Mr L when it said it would, which meant 
he had to phone AXA for an update. But Im satisfied the £50 it already paid is fair 
compensation for this also. 
AXA paid Mr L £25 for the delays in responding to his complaint and I think its fair it 
compensated him for this. 
In light of all this, I dont think AXA needs to do anything more than its already done. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned, Ive decided I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman