DRN-3427423
The complaint
Mr G complains about delays by Paragon Bank Plc when carrying out an ISA transfer.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
In February 2021 Paragon received an ISA transfer form for Mr G but the Triple Access ISA 
he wanted to fund hadnt been opened. On 26 February 2021 Mr G spoke with Paragon 
having opened the required ISA and was asked to submit a new ISA transfer form. On 16 
March 2021 the ISA transfer form was sent to Mr Gs existing ISA provider (A).
Between 26 March 2021 and 7 May 2021 A sent various emails to Paragon asking for 
confirmation of Mr Gs date of birth and National Insurance number as well as updates. But 
Paragon says the emails werent from a recognised address. Each time Paragon responded 
and asked A to resend its request from an email address that is registered on TISA 
database (an industry database for ISA providers).
The ISA transfer was completed on 18 June 2021 and Mr G went on to complain. Paragon 
sent Mr G a final response but didnt agree it had unreasonably delayed the ISA transfer. 
Mr G referred his complaint to us and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Paragon couldve done more to move the transfer along and asked it to pay Mr G £125 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
Paragon asked to appeal and explained it wasnt able to respond to an unrecognised 
email address. As Paragon asked to appeal, Mr Gs complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr G was upset at the way his ISA transfer was handled. Its clear 
there were delays and that the process didnt go smoothly. Im aware there were two
business involved, Paragon and A. We look at complaints on an individual basis. That 
means my decision will focus on Paragons actions alone, Im not going to make a decision
about As actions or delays it mayve caused.
There was an initial delay caused when Mr G sought to transfer funds into a Triple Access 
ISA that hadnt yet been opened. Mr G went on to open the account and contacted 
Paragon again to complete the ISA transfer. Paragon has explained it needed a new ISA 
transfer form from Mr G but went on to complete one on his behalf on 10 March 2021 to 
avoid further delays. Whilst I can see there was an initial delay, I havent seen anything that 
suggests Paragon caused it.
The key delay came when A sent repeated emails to Paragon asking for information that 
had already been provided and updates. Id expect Paragon to respond to legitimate emails 
it receives in connection with an ISA transfer. Paragon explains that to ensure information is 
kept private it will only correspond with email addresses that are registered on the TISA 
database. Ive seen all the emails between Paragon and A. Each time Paragon received an 
email it responded and asked for it to be reissued from a TISA registered email address.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G, but Im satisfied that was a reasonable step for Paragon to 
take. I wouldnt expect Paragon to send private information to an email address it was 
unable to verify as genuine. And the emails it sent A were very clear in requesting future 
contact from a TISA registered email address. I dont know why A continued to send 
emails from the same address, but I havent found that Paragon acted unfairly in the way it 
responded.
Ultimately, the situation was resolved after Paragon spoke with A over the phone. I note 
Paragons email response sent on 7 May 2021 didnt contain any information and simply 
referred A back to the original ISA transfer form. In addition, that email had to be approved 
by management on the basis A still wasnt using a TISA registered email address.
Ive looked at the ISA transfer form Paragon sent A and it contains both Mr Gs date of birth 
and National Insurance number. I think Paragon makes a reasonable point when it says the 
information requests going back to March 2021 were in relation to details it had already 
supplied.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr G as I can see there were delays in this case. But, I havent 
found that Paragon caused an unreasonable level of delays or treated Mr G unfairly. In my 
view, Paragons options were limited after it received emails from an unverified contact. 
Im satisfied Paragon gave A clear instructions on how to proceed and confirmed Mr Gs 
personal details in the original ISA transfer form it sent. As I havent found evidence of a 
delay caused by Paragon, I dont intend to tell it to take further action or pay 
compensation to Mr G.
I invited both parties to respond with any new information they wanted me to consider. 
Neither Mr G or Paragon provided new information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has been provided and Mr G has confirmed he accepts, Im going to 
proceed in line with my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman