DRN-4119105
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Sabre Insurance Company Limited mishandled her claim on a motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is an estate car made by a premium-brand 
manufacturer and first registered in March 2009. Mrs H acquired the car in May 2020.
For the year from early November 2022, Mrs H had the car insured on a comprehensive 
policy through an insurance intermediary. Sabre was the insurance company that was 
responsible for dealing with any claim.
Unfortunately, Mrs H reported that in late January 2023, someone had stolen the catalytic 
converter from her car. Sabre said it would get the damaged car collected by salvage 
agents, as it was likely to be beyond economic repair. It didnt provide a courtesy car.
Mrs H couldnt afford to get a new vehicle. On 31 January 2023, she withdrew her claim, 
saying she had made arrangements for repair. In the meantime Mrs H couldnt use the car  
and had to use public transport and get lifts.
On about 13 February 2023, Mrs H complained to Sabre. She said shed had to pay £695.00 
for a replacement catalytic converter. 
By a final response dated early March 2023, Sabre said that  if Mrs H still wished to claim -
it would reimburse the cost to replace the catalytic converter, subject to the £250.00 excess 
applicable for theft.
Mrs H brought her complaint to us in late March 2023.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
Sabre had acted unfairly or unreasonably in relation to the claim.
Mrs H disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
Sabre didnt give the option of the car being assessed at home. 
Sabre said repair wouldnt be financially viable. It only gave the option of having the 
car scrapped. 
Sabre provided no other option, such as the option to repair the car herself and claim 
the cost. So she had no option but to withdraw her claim, pay for the repair and 
complain. 
After she complained, Sabre said it could have been assessed at her home. 
She experienced considerable hardship whilst without a car. She experienced stress 
and anxiety at being able to get to work and provide transport for her daughter with a 
long- term medical condition. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the policy documents, Ive seen that the policy covered Mrs H as policyholder, and it 
also covered her husband and daughter as named drivers. Ive noted that her daughter had 
a medical condition that she had notified to DVLA.
The policy terms included the following:
The insurer will decide either to;
Repair the damage themselves; or
Pay to have the damage repaired; or
Pay to replace what is lost or damaged if this is more cost effective than
repairing it; or
Pay you an amount equal to the loss or damage.
 The insurer will not pay more than the market value of the car at the time of
the loss
So that policy term allowed Sabre to decide which option to use to settle the claim.
The policy terms also included the following:
Recommended repairer

At your option, you can arrange for a repairer of your choice to carry out the
repairs. You must send the insurer at least two detailed repair estimates as
soon as reasonably possible. The insurer will only be liable for the repair
costs at a non-recommended repairer if the insurer has agreed that the costs
are reasonable and the insurer has issued an authorisation to the repairer.
The insurer may need to inspect the car.
The insurer reserve the right to ask you to obtain alternative estimates and
the insurer may not pay you more than their recommended repairer would
have charged them for the repair of the car.
That term gave the policyholder an option of using their own repairer. But I dont consider 
that this applied where Sabre decided instead to settle the claim by paying the pre-incident 
market value of the car.
The policy terms also included the following:
Courtesy cars
This policy also covers loss or damage to any courtesy car the insurer's
recommended repairer provides to you while any damage to the car is being
repaired. The provision of a courtesy car is subject to availability and the
recommended repairers terms and conditions. If the provision of a courtesy
car is available, the insurer's recommended repairers will not be obliged to
arrange a replacement vehicle any larger than a small hatchback
In my view, that policy term meant that Sabre wouldnt provide a courtesy car if it hadnt 
appointed a repairer.I consider that the theft and the need to make a claim were bound to cause inconvenience 
and distress to Mrs H and her family.
It would be common practice for an insurer to treat a car as a total loss where the estimated 
cost of repair was more than a percentage (for example 70%)  of the pre-incident market 
value of the car. Mrs Hs car was over ten years old, and someone had removed the catalytic 
converter. So I dont consider that Sabre acted unfairly or unreasonably by treating the car 
as a likely total loss to be sent to a salvage agent.
I dont consider that Sabre treated Mrs H unfairly or unreasonably by not mentioning the 
option of the car being assessed at home.
Sabre wasnt under any obligation to appoint a repairer or to provide a courtesy car, certainly 
not until Sabre had received images or a report on the damaged car. And Mrs H withdrew 
her claim within a couple of days. So I dont hold Sabre responsible for the consequences to 
Mrs H and her family of not being able to use the damaged car or a courtesy car. Those 
consequences included effects on  her husbands work and her daughters commitments.
In my view, Mrs Hs later repair cost of £695.00 doesnt show that Sabre acted unfairly when 
it anticipated that the likely cost of repair and the likely pre-incident value of the car were 
such that it was likely to treat the car as a total loss. 
In response to the complaint, Sabre offered to reimburse the cost of the catalytic converter, 
less the policy excess. I consider that this offer was a fair and reasonable response.
Mrs H had enjoyed the benefit of cover to drive the car. And the final response offered to 
settle the claim. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Sabre to refund the premium.
Overall, I dont conclude that Sabre treated Mrs H unfairly and I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Sabre to do any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Sabre Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman