DRN-3619671
The complaint
Mr T complains that U K Insurance Limited declined his claim against his travel insurance 
policy. Reference to UKI includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr T has travel insurance as a benefit of a bank account. In 
April 2021, Mr T booked a trip for dental treatment abroad. He left the UK on 7 May 2021 
and intended to return on 16 May 2021. Shortly after Mr Ts arrival at his destination the 
airline cancelled his return flight. He also became aware that the UK government now 
required him to stay in a managed quarantine hotel for 10 days on his return to the UK. 
On 8 May 2021, Mr T phoned UKI about cover under his policy. Ill refer to that 
conversation in more detail below. 
Mr T explored the possibility of avoiding the quarantine hotel by travelling to and staying 
in third countries before returning to the UK. He booked flights but was unable to use 
them because of changing restrictions. Mr T remained at his original destination beyond 
his original departure date. I understand that he returned home on 20 May 2021 and 
went to a quarantine hotel in the UK . 
Mr T made a claim against his policy for additional travel and accommodation costs. UKI 
declined his claim. It relied on an exclusion relating to travel for medical treatment. Mr T 
complained about that. 
In response to Mr Ts complaint, UKI said that Mr Ts claim wasnt covered by the delay 
provisions in the policy, as he hadnt checked in for the flight when it was cancelled. It 
said that when Mr T phoned for guidance it correctly told him that it wouldnt pay for 
delayed departure or additional flights but said, incorrectly, that he could claim for the 
cost of the quarantine hotel. UKI also said that it initially gave Mr T the wrong reason for 
declining his claim. It offered compensation of £200 in relation to its provision of incorrect 
information. Mr T didnt think that was sufficient and pursued his complaint. 
Mr T says that if UKI had told him that it wouldnt reimburse his costs for the quarantine 
hotel, he would have avoided quarantine in the UK by travelling to a third country and 
staying there for ten days before returning to the UK. He says that his preference was to 
return to the UK even if he was in a quarantine hotel as he had caring duties for a 
member of his family. Mr T says that when he spoke with UKI on 8 May 2021, it entered 
into a verbal contract which extended his cover. He wants UKI to pay his claim.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that what happened 
here wasnt covered by Mr Ts policy. The investigator said that during its phone call with 
Mr T, UKI didnt guarantee that it would pay his claim. She thought that UKIs offer of 
compensation of £200 was fair and reasonable. The investigator didnt think that any 
misleading information from UKI caused Mr T financial loss. 
Mr T didnt agree with the investigator. He said:
If hed known the true position he would have spent less than the cost of the 
quarantine hotel as hed have travelled to a third country and stayed in hostels 
and his other costs would have been negligible as he was fasting for the relevant 
period. 
He had to buy two return flights as he had to have a booked flight before booking 
the quarantine hotel. 
His preference was to travel to a third country if he was paying but to return to the 
UK if UKI was paying for the quarantine hotel, which is why he checked he was 
covered. 
In indicating that his claim was covered, UKI added to the contract he had with it 
as he relied on that in deciding what to do next. 
His costs include travel costs and additional flight costs. 
The investigator considered what Mr T said but didnt change her view. Mr T asked that 
an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding Mr Ts 
complaint because I dont think that UKI treated him unfairly or unreasonably. I say that 
because:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the 
policy, the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Ive looked carefully at Mr Ts policy. Mr T didnt cancel or curtail his trip, he 
extended it. Theres no cover in Mr Ts policy for extending a trip. Ive also 
considered the cover for delayed or missed departure. That cover doesnt assist  
Mr T here as its for certain expenses following missed departure due to transport 
issues or delay after check-in. So, Mr Ts claim isnt covered by the policy. 
UKI accepts that it gave Mr T some incorrect information. It says that whilst it 
correctly told him that his policy didnt cover additional flights or delayed departure, 
it led him to believe that he could claim the costs of the quarantine hotel when that 
wasnt in fact the case.
Ive listened to Mr Ts phone call with UKI on 8 May 2021. I dont think that UKI 
promised to pay Mr Ts claim. It was trying to give him guidance about what may be 
covered and said that the outcome of the claim would depend on the information 
presented to the claims department. Whilst I agree that it gave Mr T misleading information about the quarantine hotel costs, I dont agree that amounted to a 
variation of Mr Ts policy. 
When events like this happen, we dont proceed on the basis that the incorrect or 
misleading information is true. We look to see the effect of any incorrect or 
misleading information on the individual. 
Mr T says that if hed known the true position, he would have travelled to a third 
country, stayed there for 10 days, and returned to the UK without having to 
quarantine. He says this would have cost him a good deal less than the cost of the 
quarantine hotel. 
Based on what Ive seen and heard, Im not persuaded that Mr T would have 
proceeded as he suggests or that he would necessarily have incurred lower costs if 
hed done so. Thats because Mr T says that his preference was to return to the UK 
sooner rather than later because of family, caring and work commitments. His 
reference to extending his trip in a third country isnt compatible with that. And, in 
any event, if hed travelled to and stayed in a third country in order to avoid 
quarantine he would have incurred additional travel, accommodation and living 
costs. 
I dont think that the misleading information provided by UKI caused Mr Ts 
expense in relation to the quarantine hotel. There are no grounds on which I can 
fairly direct UKI to cover that expense. 
In all the circumstances, I think that UKIs offer of compensation of £200 is fair and 
reasonable in this case. In its final response to Mr T of 4 June 2021, UKI said that it 
had sent that amount to Mr Ts bank account. If Mr T didnt receive the 
compensation, he should take that up with UKI directly. 
 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman