DRN-4042990
The complaint
Mr D complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund money he lost, after he fell 
victim to an authorised push payment (APP) scam.  
Mr D in bringing his complaint to our service is being represented. For ease, Ill refer to Mr D 
throughout, even where the submissions have been made on his behalf. 
What happened
Mr D says he came across adverts on a number of social media platforms, which were for a 
job opportunity with a company, Ill refer to as PT. Mr D explained it was advertising that 
money could be made by helping with social media engagements across different social 
media sites. 
Mr D told us he saw good reviews for PT online, so he reached out to an individual whod 
posted the advertisement. 
Mr D communicated with the individual via a messaging app. I understand that in order to 
start Mr D created a profile and downloaded an app for PT. Hes told us the app looked 
professional and legitimate. 
As I understand it, the premise was that Mr D would need to purchase packages of 
items/tasks which would then allow him to carry out tasks across the different social media 
sites and that hed earn a commission for this. 
Mr D was provided with a link to enable him to speak with the customer service part of the 
company and he was invited to a group, on a messaging app, to enable him to communicate 
with other members. Mr D says he spoke with other members whod already invested and 
whod made money by doing simple tasks. 
Mr D has explained that he started off using a free credit that was given to him when he 
signed up to the app. He says he used this free credit for three weeks. I understand Mr D 
had earned around £300 in this account from completing tasks, but he was told the minimum 
withdrawal limit was £500. 
Following Mr Ds use of the free credit, he explained that other members had shown him 
that theyd withdrawn money from the app account. He said he spoke with a couple of 
members who had made money for about four months. 
Mr D, believing all to be genuine, proceeded to make a faster payment of £2,000 from his 
Monzo account on 9 February 2022, to the payment details given to him. Mr D commented 
that to make good money he thought of investing the amount he did so that he could get 
more tasks to complete and make more money. 
He said the £2,000 payment was a deposit required to stimulate purchasing items, which 
unlocked the task for the item, which in turn would then earn him commission. He said on 
completing each set of tasks, he would then have his deposits added to his account along 
with his commission. 
Mr D says before he made the payment, he questioned the payee details he was given  as 
this was in a different name to PT. He was told the payee was advertising for the company 
and that by getting likes and views they generated a revenue to the company. He was told 
they were privately hired to do the task for the company. Mr D also says he questioned the 
payment method (faster payment) but that he was told the app was under development and 
it would take time to have this option available.
 
Around 14 February 2022, I understand the app went offline and has remained offline since 
then, with the company no longer contactable. 
Mr D raised the matter with Monzo on 14 February 2022 via its in-app chat function. Monzo 
is not a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM Code) but has agreed to adhere to its provisions. This means Monzo has made a 
commitment to reimburse customers who are victims of authorised push payment scams 
except in limited circumstances. Monzo investigated Mr Ds fraud claim but didnt uphold it. 
In summary, this was because it said it had acted in line with its regulatory requirements and 
it didnt feel Mr D had taken enough steps to check who he was paying and what for. 
Monzo also added that it provided a warning to Mr D, at the time he made the payment, but 
Mr D proceeded. Monzo did try to recover Mr Ds money from the receiving bank (the bank 
to whom the money was sent), but no funds remained. 
Mr D didnt agree with Monzos findings and so brought his complaint to our service. One of 
our Investigators looked into things but she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, she thought there was enough going on that Mr D shouldve had concerns and 
taken further steps before he made the payment. She also didnt think the scam risk 
wouldve been apparent to Monzo when Mr D made the payment and so she didnt think 
Monzo needed to provide an effective warning or contact Mr D about the payment. 
Mr D didnt agree with our Investigators view. In summary, but not limited to, he said:
There was a professional and high-quality app that had the functions youd expect 
from a professional app. He adds that the company also had a customer service 
helpline and a withdrawal helpline. 
He was added to a messaging group where he was introduced to other members 
who verified that the process worked and that they received returns. 
He reiterated that he questioned who he was paying and was told the company he 
was making the payment to was responsible for its advertising. He says given the 
sophistication of the scam, paying an affiliate company was not a cause for concern. 
The opportunity sounded legitimate to him as there were and are legitimate 
companies that have a similar set up  allowing people to buy and sell likes. 
He did online research and says nothing showed any signs of concern. He says there 
were good reviews online about the company. 
Our Investigator considered the additional points, but she didnt think Mr D had a reasonable 
basis for believing that he was working with the company  PT. She added that whilst she 
appreciated the company appeared to be affiliated with a well-known company, she thought 
there were other factors that ought to have caused Mr D concern, such as: 
Mr D believed he was signing up to a job opportunity with the company. She didnt 
consider legitimate job opportunities were usually advertised on social media platforms. In turn, she also didnt think a job would ask for a payment to be sent prior 
to receiving money. 
Mr D wasnt able to withdraw what hed earned from the free credit and so he didnt 
know that withdrawals were possible at the time he made the payment of £2,000. 
She recognised Mr D believed this to be a remote-working role, and that a company 
might have a platform where its employees communicate but thought the fact the 
payments and communication had to be conducted outside of the app shouldve 
caused him concern. 
She acknowledged Mr D trusted the other members on the group chat and the 
reviews on social media sites. But she didnt think this was effective as she 
considered Mr D trusted others who were affiliated with the scam and who were 
trying to advertise it. She said that had Mr D done some research on the company or 
the payee he sent the payment to, she thought it was likely he would have uncovered 
there was a scam. 
Mr D didnt agree with the Investigators findings and so the complaint has now been passed 
to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will now explain why. 
In reaching this decision, Ive taken into account the evidence provided by both sides as well 
as the relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
Of particular relevance here, the CRM Code says that the victim of an APP scam such as 
this should be reimbursed unless the bank is able to establish that one (or more) of the 
limited exceptions to reimbursement can be applied.
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning 
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate 
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
I think Monzo has been able to establish that it may choose not to reimburse Mr D under the 
terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement under 
the provisions of the CRM Code applies.Did Mr D have a reasonable basis of belief?
Ive thought about what Mr D has told us happened, and the reasons Monzo say Mr D didnt 
have a reasonable basis for belief for proceeding with the payment or that the person 
(employer) he was dealing with was legitimate. 
Based on everything Ive seen and been told; Im not satisfied it was reasonable for Mr D to 
have made the payment for £2,000. I will now explain why. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr D has said about the app and the online reviews. 
However, Im not persuaded that these were credible enough for him to have accepted that 
the employer was a legitimate one. Based on everything Ive seen and been told, it would 
appear Mr D took at face value what he was being told by those he was speaking with in 
connection to the company and others who were already participating in the opportunity. Ive 
not seen anything that indicates Mr D took any steps to satisfy himself that those he was in 
touch with were genuine or that what he was being told by them was legitimate. 
Nor have I seen that Mr D carried out any independent research about the employer prior to 
proceeding. Mr D has commented that the company was similar to another well-known and 
legitimate social network platform, and that the company had a similar logo which led him to 
believe it was affiliated and in turn a legitimate opportunity. I dont think it automatically 
follows that just because there were similarities in branding/appearance that this meant Mr D 
ought fairly and reasonably to have been satisfied the company was associated with the 
legitimate platform without having carried out any checks himself. 
Mr D told us he spoke with many other members who verified that the process for the 
company worked, that theyd been doing the job for a number of months and, that others had 
received returns. I acknowledge Mr D told Monzo that this made him proceed further. But I 
dont think I can overlook that Mr D said he wasnt able to make any withdrawals. He added 
that he was told he would be able to withdraw once his balance reached £500. And while 
Mr D appears to have been persuaded and relied on what the other members told him, no 
information has been shared with our service that shows what Mr D was told or shown, that 
satisfied him any returns had been received. I think this is an important point, especially 
given that hed not been able to make any withdrawals himself. In the absence of such 
information, Im not persuaded the word of the other members, whom Mr D had not met prior 
to this opportunity, stating theyd received returns, ought fairly to have enticed him to spend 
money on this job opportunity. Nor have I seen specifically how and what the other members 
shared that made Mr D think he was dealing with a legitimate company.  
I have also thought about the screenshots weve been given. From the limited screenshots 
provided, I cant say Ive seen what persuaded Mr D to make the payment for this job 
opportunity. These include: 
a snippet of the advert for the job opportunity on the social media site, 
the contents of some messages sent via the messaging app between Mr D and 
customer service for the app  which provided a link to join the messaging group and
messages between Mr D and another person related to the company/app that show 
he enquired about the limit to make a withdrawal and asked a question about a 
withdrawal someone else made.
 
While Mr D has provided this information in support of what convinced him to make the 
payment and led him to believe he was dealing with a legitimate business/employer, I dont 
think I can safely say that what Ive seen shows what specifically enticed him to proceed to 
make the payment. As Ive set out above, Mr D appears to have been influenced by what he says the other 
members shared with him. But he hasnt given us anything that shows the profits and 
withdrawals hes referred to the other members showing him. In the absence of this, I cant 
be certain what Mr D relied on before making this payment and Im not persuaded Mr D had 
satisfied himself that he would be able to successfully withdraw funds at the time of making 
the payment or that all was as it seemed. 
Im also mindful of the fact that Mr D made the payment to an account that was not in the 
name of the company or the social media sites he believed he was working with. Mr D says 
he did question this, and he was told the payee was responsible for its advertising. Mr D told 
us paying an affiliate company was not a cause for concern when taking into account all the 
other sophisticated aspects. Ive thought carefully about what Mr D has said here. But I think 
this ought to have caused him some concern. I say this because, Mr D was making a 
payment on the basis that it was a deposit required to stimulate purchasing items. This 
would unlock tasks and in turn, earn him commission. Given that this job opportunity was 
with PT, I think Mr D being asked to make a payment to a payee whom he was told dealt 
with the companies advertising ought to have prompted him to ask further questions.
Mr D has also said he questioned the payment method. He says he was told the app was 
under development and that it would take time to have the option to pay within the app 
available. On this basis, he was told in the meantime the money could be sent by bank 
transfer. I think this is a factor that, when considered alongside Mr D being told to make the 
payment to a different payee, fairly and reasonably ought to have given him pause for 
thought and led to him proceeding with more caution. 
Im mindful that any of these individual factors in isolation may not have been enough to 
have prevented Mr D from proceeding. But considering the specific circumstances of this 
case and the factors in the round, on balance, I think that there was enough going on and 
sufficient red flags that Mr D ought reasonably to have taken further steps to protect himself. 
Should Monzo have done anything else to protect Mr D and prevent the fraud?
Ive thought about whether Monzo did enough to protect Mr D from financial harm. The CRM 
Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide effective warnings 
to their customers. 
I am also mindful that, when Mr D made this payment, Monzo should fairly and reasonably 
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
Monzo say Mr D was presented with a warning when he made the payment and despite this, 
he proceeded. Mr D, when reporting the scam, told Monzo that he saw the in-app warning 
but that since many people were already doing the job opportunity that made him proceed 
further. 
Ive considered what both parties have said, but in the circumstances of this case, Im not 
persuaded the payment Mr D made to the fraudster was so remarkable that Monzo ought to 
have been on notice that he might have been at risk of financial harm from fraud. So, Im 
satisfied Monzo neednt have identified a scam risk and in turn did not need to provide an 
effective warning or question the payment before processing it. Overall, I dont believe 
Monzo needed to do more than it did. 
Ive considered whether Monzo did all it could to try and recover the money Mr D lost, once 
he had reported the scam to it. From the evidence Ive seen, Monzo did contact the receiving bank when the matter was raised, but unfortunately the receiving bank reported that no 
funds remained. I think Monzo has done what could reasonably have been expected of it to 
try to recover the money.
I am sorry that Mr D has lost money in this way, but in the circumstances, for the reasons 
Ive explained, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to order Monzo to repay him the 
money he sadly lost.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman