DRN-2008943
The complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays Bank Plc closed his account without explanation and logged a 
CIFAS marker against him.
What happened
In 2014 Mr Os personal account with Barclays was closed. Barclays also closed his 
companys business account. Both accounts were closed without a reason being given. 
Mr O did not complain at the time, but he complained in 2020 when he discovered that 
Barclays had logged a first party fraud marker against him. The companys complaint about 
the closure of its business account has been dealt with separately; I am dealing here only 
with Mr Os personal account.
Barclays stood by its decision to close the account, but it accepted that it had not had 
enough evidence to record the fraud marker. It agreed to downgrade the CIFAS marker from 
fraud to suspect, and it offered to pay Mr O £300 for his trouble. Mr O did not accept that 
offer, as he said the marker had prejudiced his mortgage application. He brought this 
complaint to our Service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said Barclays had been entitled to close 
the account. He did not think that our Service had jurisdiction to consider the CIFAS marker, 
as this had been logged in connection with the companys business account, rather than 
Mr Os own account. Mr O did not agree, and so this complaint has been passed to me for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The bank has shared its evidence with us in confidence, and so I am unable to say more 
about the account closure than that Barclays was entitled to close the account without telling 
Mr O why, and that I am satisfied that it arrived at that decision in good faith. I therefore do 
not uphold that part of this complaint.
Barclays admits that it was wrong to record the fraud marker with CIFAS, and so I only need 
to consider what is fair compensation for that issue. I do no not agree that this matter is out 
of my jurisdiction. Although it is true that the decision to record the marker was taken based 
on information about the companys business account, I can see in evidence submitted by 
Barclays that the marker is recorded against Mr O in relation to his personal account. For 
that reason, I consider this complaint to arise from matters relevant to his relationship with 
Barclays as one of its customers in his own right. It isnt just a complaint about his 
companys business account (which has been dealt with by another ombudsman).
Mr O says that the CIFAS marker meant that he had to pay for a new bank account, and 
also prevented him from getting a mortgage (which appears to be how he found out about 
the marker). He therefore says that £300 isnt enough.
As far as the mortgage is concerned, Barclays terms and conditions say that Barclays is not 
liable for loss of opportunity, and I think this would extend to the loss of the opportunity to 
get a mortgage. I therefore do not think I can hold Barclays liable for that.
I dont think the terms and conditions prevent Mr O from claiming a refund of the fees he 
paid for his replacement bank account. But I dont think he has tried to mitigate his loss  
that is, he accepted a bank account with a third party which charged account fees. If he had 
shopped around for a free bank account, then he would either have found one or, if he could 
not, he would have wondered why, and would then most likely have discovered the CIFAS 
marker sooner, and complained about it sooner. I dont think it would be fair to order 
Barclays to refund five and a half years worth of charges, and I think that £300 is fair 
compensation for the charges that Mr O would have incurred up to the point when he should 
have discovered what had happened (if he couldnt get a free account).
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman