DRN-2752192
The complaint
Mr F complains that J D Williams & Company Limited treated him unfairly when he struggled 
to make his repayments on time when his financial situation changed. 
What happened
Mr F had an existing account with J D Williams & Company Limited (JDW). In November 
2017, he contacted them to let them know that the date he would receive his pension had 
changed. Mr F asked JDW if he could pay by direct debit or change the payment date to 
avoid future charges  but JDW declined so Mr F made a complaint. 
JDW didnt uphold Mr Fs initial complaint in January 2018. They said that if Mr F didnt make 
his repayments when they were due that under the terms of his account, he would incur the 
£12 administration fee. They also said that to avoid the charges, Mr F should ensure his 
payments reached them by the due date on his statements. 
JDW continued to apply charges to Mr Fs account and tell him that his account was in 
arrears. Mr F continued to keep JDW updated on his financial situation over the following 
years, and he told them he felt intimidated and stressed as they werent helping him and 
kept writing to him to say he was in arrears. He also said he was unhappy with how this was 
affecting his credit file. 
At the beginning of March 2020, JDW wrote to Mr F to say that they didnt uphold his second 
complaint. They said their stance hadnt changed about the repayment dates and 
administration fees from their initial complaint response in January 2018. They also said they 
didnt feel the arrears letters they were sending were intimidating, and that they had a duty to 
report accurate information to the credit reference agencies. 
Mr F did think this was fair as JDW fees and charges were causing him financial difficulty, 
and as he was a vulnerable consumer, he felt they should have been more help. So he 
asked this service to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint was upheld. She didnt think it was reasonable 
that JDW had said they couldnt change Mr Fs payment date and she felt Mr F had tried to 
make his repayments on time but JDW were preventing him from doing so. So she asked 
JDW to change Mr Fs repayment date, so he was able to make his payments on time. She 
also asked JDW to repay £240 of administration charges and pay Mr F £100 compensation 
for the distress theyd caused him. 
Mr F agreed but JDW didnt. They said they hadnt refused to change Mr Fs repayment date 
or not set up a direct-debit for him, however their statement cycle would still need to be paid 
every 28 days as per their terms and conditions. 
They said that by allowing Mr F to make payments outside of the 28 days would be a breach 
of the credit agreement and that there was no way for them to amend their system, and it 
was Mr Fs responsibility to ensure he could make his payment on time. 
I issued a provisional decision on 12 April 2021. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it but for different reasons to our investigator. Ill 
explain why. 
The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 1.3 says that a business ought 
reasonably to be aware that a consumer is in financial difficulty if they are consecutively 
failing to meet minimum repayments or failing to meet repayments when due. CONC 2.2 
also says that a business should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly and that by not allowing customers who are unable to make payments a 
reasonable time and opportunity to meet repayments would be disregarding this. Looking at 
the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded JDW have done this. 
JDW have told us they cant be held responsible because Mr F cant make his repayments 
by the statement due date, and it was Mr Fs responsibility to ensure funds were available  
even if that meant setting funds aside from previous pay to maintain payments. But I dont 
agree. I say this because Mr F contacted JDW as soon as he was aware his pension date 
had changed and made them aware this would mean his income came in after the 
statement. 
Mr F had already explained to JDW that he was on a limited income and that due to their 
payment cycle he wouldnt be able to cover the payment on the date they wanted or build 
the buffer that JDW mentioned for the future payment. As JDW had told Mr F that it wasnt 
possible for them to change his payment cycle due to their systems, I think it would have 
been reasonable here for JDW to offer Mr F alternatives - such as a short payment holiday. 
This would also have allowed Mr F the opportunity to adjust to his new pension date and 
rearrange his finances without worrying about missing his payments. 
Ive looked at Mr Fs statements and I can see that there were numerous occasions where 
Mr F either didnt make his minimum monthly repayment or make a repayment at all. CONC 
7.3.4 says, A firm must treat customers in default or arrears difficulties with forbearance and 
due consideration. Ive asked JDW to show that they treated Mr F fairly once theyd been 
made aware, he was in financial difficulty, but they havent been able to demonstrate this in 
the way wed expect. 
I say this because, JDW have told us that they dont have a specific process for dealing with 
consumers in financial difficulty. Theyve also said they would normally complete an income 
and expenditure to see what a consumer can afford to repay  but I cant see that they did 
this at any point with Mr F. Ive also seen that since Mr F had issues with the payment in 
October 2017, he hasnt been able to clear the outstanding arrears. And by April 2018, Mr F 
had been in arrears of around £300 for six months - which only increased over the following 
three years. 
I acknowledge JDW said in May and June 2020, they allowed Mr F to miss his repayments 
and make a lower repayment in July 2020 due to his ill health. However, looking at the 
statements and account history Ive seen that there were numerous occasions before this 
where Mr F either didnt make his repayments at all or didnt make the minimum required. 
And by May 2020, Mr F was already around £1,380 in arrears before the two missed 
payments were added to the outstanding balance. So I think JDW should have done more to 
help Mr F before this point. 
JDW have told us that they dont default their accounts unless a consumer has missed six consecutive repayments and contact hasnt been made. The first thing for me to say is that 
there isnt a requirement for a firm to default an account before offering assistance to a 
customer. But not withstanding this, I, in any event, have concerns about JDWs failure to 
take action in relation to the arrears on Mr Fs account. 
The Information Commissioners Office says that generally if a consumer falls into arrears of 
between three to six months, its normal for a default to be applied to their credit file. Looking 
at Mr Fs statements, there were regular periods of around three months at a time where he 
either missed payments or didnt make the minimum payments  particularly at the end of 
2019 and early 2020. And at no point was Mr F able to clear the outstanding arrears that had 
built up. 
However, in this case, Mr F had been in arrears on his account since November 2017 which 
had been increasing steadily over the following three years. So I find JDWs failure to step in 
to be unreasonable. I say this while especially mindful that Mr Fs outstanding balance was 
increasing with the extra fees and charges that JDW were adding to the account. Bearing in 
mind the account had been in arrears for six months by April 2018  with no agreed plan to 
repay them, I think that JDW ought to have started forbearance in April 2018 and stopped 
adding interest and charges at this point. And if they felt it necessary to default the account 
to do so, they should have done it at this stage rather than allow Mr F to continue using his 
account, causing further strain on his finances. 
So whilst I understand this was JDWs business decision to take, I dont think this was in 
Mr Fs best interests to allow the account to continue as it was, and I dont think theyve 
treated him fairly. 
So looking at all the evidence, Im not persuaded that JDW did enough to help Mr F when he 
explained he was in financial difficulty. Mr F has said he repeatedly told JDW how much the 
arrears letters were causing him distress, but I havent seen anything that suggests they took 
this or his vulnerability into consideration when dealing with him. And overall, Im not 
satisfied that they took sufficient steps as a responsible lender to assist Mr F when he was 
struggling to meet his repayments. 
Putting things right 
Mr F told us that hes felt intimidated and distressed by JDW in how they dealt with his 
complaints and chased him for the arrears on his account. And Ive seen that Mr F has 
approached third-parties for assistance with this before coming to us as he was so 
distressed. He also feels he wasnt offered any alternatives to help him resolve the issues he 
was experiencing. So given the circumstances of the complaint, I think JDW should pay Mr F 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
I also think that as JDW should have started forbearance, that they should rework Mr Fs 
account to ensure that from the April 2018 payment date onwards no interest and charges 
were applied to the account. This is to reflect the fact that no assistance was given to Mr F 
within the first six months after hed made JDW aware of his financial difficulty and reflects 
what would have been a reasonable time period for them to provide help to Mr F. 
I can see that some charges have been refunded to the account, however any additional late 
payment, arrears or over limit fees from the April 2018 payment date should also be 
removed and, if an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made JDW should contact Mr F to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. I 
also dont think its in Mr Fs best interests to allow continued use of the account until the 
outstanding arrears have been cleared. If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being an 
outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to 
Mr F, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were made (if 
they were) until the date of settlement*. 
If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then JDW should 
remove any adverse information from Mr Fs credit file from the time the balance was clear. 
If there is an outstanding balance after all adjustments have been made, JDW can also 
backdate a default on Mr Fs credit file to the April 2018 payment date should it consider it 
necessary to do so. 
*If JDW considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
I invited Mr F and JDW to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. Both Mr F and JDW responded to say they 
accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as both Mr F and JDW responded to say they accepted my decision, I 
see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So this final decision confirms the findings set 
out in my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
As I've reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision, J D Williams & 
Company Limited must do the following:   
Pay Mr F £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused;
Rework Mr Fs account to ensure that from the April 2018 payment date onwards no 
interest and charges were applied to the account *
*I can see that some charges have been refunded to the account, however any additional 
late payment, arrears or over limit fees from the April 2018 payment date should also be 
removed and, if an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made JDW should contact Mr F to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
I also dont think its in Mr Fs best interests to allow continued use of the account until the 
outstanding arrears have been cleared. If the effect of removing all interest, fees and 
charges results in there no longer being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be 
treated as overpayments and returned to Mr F, along with 8% simple interest on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement**. 
If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then JDW should 
remove any adverse information from Mr Fs credit file from the time the balance was clear. 
If there is an outstanding balance after all adjustments have been made, JDW can also 
backdate a default on Mr Fs credit file to the April 2018 payment date should it consider it 
necessary to do so. **If JDW considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. J D Williams & Company Limited must follow 
the instructions I've set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman