DRN-3910223
The complaint
Ms N complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax breached her data when it 
contacted her ex-partner about her account.  
What happened
Ms N says that Halifax contacted her ex-partner on 8 June 2022. This caused additional 
tension between them due to their personal circumstances, so Ms N raised a complaint 
against Halifax.
Following a review, Halifax could not determine how the breach occurred but felt it was 
possible there was a system error that crossed over her details with her ex-partner from 
when they had a joint account. They therefore paid Ms N £150 compensation in recognition 
of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Ms N disagreed with this and referred the complaint to our service. She wanted more 
information on how the data breach occurred, an acknowledgement of the impact this had on 
her and for Halifax to reconsider the amount of compensation awarded. She let us know 
about the health issues that were impacting her life which the error by Halifax had added 
stress to.
Halifax reviewed the complaint when it was referred to our service. Having done so, they 
could find no evidence of contact being made to Ms N or her ex-partner. They searched their 
contact notes and their phone system for calls made to all phone numbers associated with 
Ms Ns account, as well as the phone number of her ex-partner. But they could find no 
evidence of a call being attempted. Because of this, they no longer thought the complaint 
should be upheld but recognised that £150 compensation had already been provided to    
Ms N. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and acknowledged there was no evidence of     
Ms Ns ex-partner being contacted by Halifax. Based on what they had seen, they felt the 
offer of £150 that had already been paid to Ms N was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ms N disagreed with this. She provided text messages from her ex-partner in which he said 
Halifax had spoken with him about her account, so she felt it was clear Halifax had breached 
her data. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the £150 compensation offered and paid by Halifax is fair and is in 
line with what I would have recommended in the circumstances. Ill explain why in more 
detail. 
Where both parties disagree over what happened, I have to consider the evidence available 
to decide what I think is more likely in the circumstances.  
I have seen the complaint notes made by Halifax, these show that they searched their 
systems and could find no contact notes to suggest why Ms Ns ex-partner would be 
contacted about one of her accounts, as they had no need to contact her at that point. In 
their business file to our service, they confirmed they had completed a search for calls made 
to any numbers associate with Ms Ns profile, as well as her ex-partners number for the 
month of June 2022 and could find no indication any calls had been made.
Ive then considered the text messages that Ms N had provided from her ex-partner, in which 
he asks Ms N to stop using an account linked with him to send money to a family member.  
And he says this account is in Ms Ns name only and was opened by her. Ms N has 
confirmed this information is correct and considering this, I think its more likely Ms Ns ex-
partner was contacted by Halifax in some form. I also note that when the contact was likely 
to have been made, Ms N still had a joint account with her ex-partner and it is possible this is 
how the linked contact was made.
While I do think its more likely an error was made, I also accept that Halifax no longer has 
any evidence to show how or why the contact was made, and its not possible for me to 
know exactly what was shared with Ms Ns ex-partner. With all of the above in mind, I do 
think it is reasonable that Halifax should pay compensation to Ms N for the distress and 
inconvenience the issue has caused. And the £150 already offered and paid is in line with 
what I would have recommended in the circumstances. 
I am aware that Ms N does not feel this is sufficient, but compensation can be very 
subjective and what might be enough for one person may not be accepted by another for the 
exact same circumstances. Having carefully considered everything, I do feel the £150 is fair. 
Ms N has pointed out that Halifax has not reported the breach to the Financial Conduct 
Authority, however any information or data breach would normally be reported to the 
Information Commissioners Office. Considering that Halifax had searched for evidence of 
the breach but could find no indication of it, I dont think it is unreasonable that they did not 
inform the Information Commissioners Office. 
In summary, I think its more likely an error did occur, and I think the £150 compensation 
already paid is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
I do not direct Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to take any further action to remedy 
Ms Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Rebecca NorrisOmbudsman