DRN-4405867
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has declined claims hes made on his 
employers private medical insurance policy.
Mr P is represented but Ill refer to all submissions as being made by him.  
What happened
Mr P has claimed on his employers private medical insurance policy for treatment relating to 
his mental health. 
AXA has declined to cover treatment because they say, in summary, that the policy terms 
relating to the moratorium havent been met. Mr P says that hes been diagnosed with 
Complex Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (CPTSD) which is an entirely new condition.
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. He didnt 
think AXAs decision to decline the claims was unreasonable, based on the available 
medical evidence. 
Mr P didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. He says that the policy 
terms are ambiguous and inadequate. Mr P says CPTSD is entirely different from that of 
General Anxiety Disorder (GAD) and the symptoms of CPSTD were not present prior to 
joining the policy. Mr P also feels that AXA refused to engage and left him feeling isolated. 
He thought the investigator had asked the consultant a leading question and highlighted that 
the investigator wasnt a clinical expert in the field of mental health. 
So, I need to make a decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear that Mr P has been through such a difficult time. Its clear that it was a 
very distressing time for both him and his representative. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions
The policy terms and conditions say: 
If you joined us on moratorium terms, it means you wont have cover for treatment of 
medical problems you had in the five years before you joined us until: 
Youve been a member for two years in a row; and 
Youve had a period of 24 consecutive months since you joined that have 
been trouble-free from that condition.
If you joined on moratorium terms, what do we mean by trouble-free? 
Trouble-free means that you have not done any of the following for the medical 
condition you need treatment for: 
Had a medical opinion from a medical practitioner, including a GP or 
specialist 
Taken medication (including over the counter drugs) 
Followed a special diet 
Had medical treatment
Visited a practitioner, therapist, homeopath, acupuncturist, optician or dentist. 
Have AXA treated Mr P fairly? 
Im satisfied that AXA have fairly declined Mr Ps claims for mental health treatment 
because: 
The available medical evidence indicates Mr P experienced symptoms related to his 
mental health in the two years prior to joining the scheme. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to make a connection between those 
symptoms and Mr Ps CPTSD. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for them to rely 
on the moratorium. 
Ive taken into account what Mr P has said about CPTSD having its own discreet set 
of symptoms and what hes said about the impact of lockdown triggering the CPTSD. 
However, the medical evidence reflects that CPTSD is related to anxiety and the 
other symptoms Mr P had experienced. So, I dont think the decisions AXA reached 
about Mr Ps claims were unreasonable. 
I think it was reasonable for AXA to conclude Mr P hasnt been trouble free for a 
period of 24 months as hes been receiving support on a private paying basis 
following the initial claims being declined. 
Im not persuaded that the terms Mr P has referred to are ambiguous or inadequate. 
In the circumstances of this case, I think they make it adequately clear what is 
covered under the policy, and what isnt. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service has an inquisitorial remit and obtained 
clarification from a consultant psychiatrist Mr P had previously seen. But, in any 
event, I think the overall medical evidence suggests it is most likely that AXA fairly 
relied on the moratorium.  
Im not persuaded that AXA refused to engage with Mr P and his representative in 
the way theyve suggested. Im satisfied that AXA fairly considered the claim and in 
line with the policy terms. I can understand that it was frustrating and very upsetting 
when they had to wait for details of whether authorisation was going to be given. I 
also appreciate this was a very difficult time for Mr P and Ive carefully considered his testimony about the impact on him. However, overall, I dont think AXA have acted 
unreasonably. 
Ive considered all of the calls between Mr P, his representative, the consultant and 
AXA that Ive been provided with. I can understand why Mr Ps representative found 
it frustrating that he couldnt speak to AXAs clinical team directly. However, AXA 
explained their process to Mr P and I dont think this was unreasonable in all the 
circumstances. Although AXA did end one of the calls with Mr Ps representative I 
dont think that was unreasonable. And I note Mr Ps representative apologised in a 
subsequent call for how the conversation had gone. So, this hasnt changed my 
thoughts about the overall outcome of the complaint.    
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman