DRN-1899459
The complaint
Miss W complains that Sesame Limited gave her incorrect advice about how much she 
could borrow if she bought a new property. Miss W bought the new property but was unable 
to port her mortgage and had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC). Miss W would like 
the ERC refunded.
What happened
Miss W took out a mortgage with a lender through a broker Sesame. The mortgage product 
had an ERC payable if she redeemed her mortgage early but could be ported subject to 
conditions. Miss W then contacted Sesame to see how much she could borrow if she bought 
another property and the figures worked out that she could afford a property in the range 
£265,000 to £300,000. Miss W found a property and went to Sesame to submit a mortgage 
application. Sesame did some figures for her which showed she could borrow about 
£235,000 from her existing lender. But when this was submitted to her lender, the most she 
could borrow was £155,500. The difference appears to be because of how the lender 
calculated the bonuses and commissions Sesame didnt appeal the decision but sourced 
Miss W a mortgage from another lender. Miss W bought the new property and paid the ERC 
but would like this refunded by Sesame as she was misled as to what she would be able to 
borrow from her lender.
Sesame agrees that it should have appealed the decision. It did a retrospective appeal, but 
this gave only a marginal increase in what the lender would lend. But it offered Miss W £150 
for its failure. Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld, and that 
Sesame hadnt managed Miss Ws expectations and should have been aware of how the 
lender dealt with bonuses and commissions. She suggested compensation of £500 would be 
fairer. Miss W disagreed saying in summary that the compensation didnt cover the ERCs 
that she had to pay. Sesame also disagreed saying in summary that the compensation it 
offered of £150 was appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W, who had used Sesame before, used them again to give her advice about how much 
of a mortgage she would be able to get on her next move. Sesame makes a point that Miss 
W hadnt previously indicated that she was going to move to a new property so soon, but 
people do move and with a portable mortgage product, should be able to move subject to 
the lenders terms and conditions and not have to pay an ERC. Miss W came to Sesame for 
advice about how much she could afford to borrow from her lender to avoid paying the ERC. 
In the event Miss W had to pay an ERC and is understandably annoyed and out of pocket 
because she has had to do so. The question I have to look at is how much of this was 
Sesames fault and how much compensation it should pay if I find it was Sesames fault.
The problem appears to be that the Sesame adviser misunderstood how the lender treated 
bonuses and commissions in its affordability assessment and he produced a substantially 
higher mortgage figure which Miss W could hope to borrow than the lender would have 
allowed. I believe that the adviser should have been expected to be aware of the lenders 
processes and wasnt or should have given a large health warning on the figures he 
produced, given the significance of bonuses and commissions in the figures, but didnt.  
I dont think that Sesame can simply say that the lenders underwriters may take a different 
view and pass the problem to the lender. The broker has a duty in giving these figures to 
Miss W to manage her expectations about what was achievable and what potential problems 
there might be such as here where bonuses and commissions were a significant part of Miss 
Ss pay package and when a lenders assessment of those might have a significant impact 
on what mortgage loan was achievable. Those points dont seem to have been flagged to 
Miss W. For the above reasons I uphold this complaint.
The question is what compensation Miss W should get because of that. As a result of these 
figures Miss W put an offer on a property and a deposit and began to market hers. She also 
paid some money for furnishings for the new property.  At that point Miss W became aware 
that the advice she got from Sesame was incorrect and that if she wanted now to buy the 
property her existing lender wouldnt help her. So, she would have known that going ahead 
with the purchase without her lender would incur paying the ERC. But then Miss W went 
ahead and purchased the property using a different lender and incurred the ERC. In deciding 
the amount of compensation, I have to separate what were the consequences of the initial 
advice and what were not and what loss Miss W suffered as a result. 
Miss W could have stopped her property purchase when she found out that she had to pay 
the ERCs but didnt. She would have lost the deposit but saved the ERCs which were much 
higher.  Miss W went ahead with the purchase not because of the advice but because she 
wanted to go ahead with buying a house that she liked knowing that the consequences were 
to pay the ERC. I dont believe that I can fairly compensate her for that as buying the house 
wasnt Sesames fault.
Miss W also paid a deposit on the new property relying on the advice but that wasnt a loss 
as Miss W went ahead and purchased the property and the deposit went into the purchase 
price. But I appreciate that Miss W would have been disappointed because at the start she 
hoped not to pay an ERC and had confidence from the advice she got from Sesame that this 
could have been avoided. Sesame has only accepted that it fell down in not appealing the 
lenders decision and believes that its offer of £150 is fair. My view is that Sesame failed to 
provide the level of advice to Miss W about what she could borrow from her lender which 
she had reasonable expectations of getting and which caused her a fair degree of 
disappointment together with Sesames failure to appeal the decision of the lender. I agree 
with our investigator that the proper level of compensation in total should be £500.    
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Sesame Limited to pay Miss W £500 
including the £150 it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Gerard McManusOmbudsman