DRN-2012946
The complaint
Mrs Is complaint concerns the way in which The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) dealt 
with the payment of compensation following a review of investment advice it had provided to 
her. She feels that RBS failed to take full account of the cost of the investment and the upset 
caused to her by the matter.
What happened
In 2013 Mrs I received advice from RBS to invest just under £400,000. In 2018 a pro-active 
review of the advice was carried out and it concluded that the investment hadnt been 
suitable for her, mainly because of the level of risk involved. 
RBS wrote to her to explain this and that it had carried a calculation to work out if shed been 
disadvantaged by the advice. It said the calculation showed that shed made a gain 
compared with leaving the money on deposit, so there was no compensation for a loss due. 
But RBS did offer to refund the advice fee of £500. 
Mrs I wasnt happy with this. The advice had been given at a time of very difficult 
circumstances for her and she felt that RBS should also repay the activation fee  an 
additional charge for starting the investment, of almost £9,000. 
RBS didnt agree to do this but did increase its offer to include interest and a payment of 
£600 towards the cost of Mrs I obtaining further advice. 
Mrs I didnt accept this offer either and referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
explained that he recognised how difficult the whole matter had been for Mrs I and agreed 
that the investment had been unsuitable. But he felt that the offer RBS had made was fair 
and in line with how this service wouldve suggested the unsuitable advice be compensated.
Mrs I remained very upset and felt RBS had acted unfairly. So, the complaint has been 
referred to me to review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that this has been a very difficult process for Mrs I and she has my sympathy. 
Clearly the experience of receiving advice from RBS and the circumstances around it was 
not something she wished to be reminded of, particularly in the context of being told shed 
not be treated correctly.
But that said, RBS has, in good faith, attempted to put the matter right. And its offer to do so 
is, in my view, a fair one.
I understand why Mrs I is concerned about it. These types of calculations can be 
complicated, and it can seem odd when its admitted that an error has been made but it has 
in fact led to a gain. 
But Im satisfied thats the case here. Although the investment shouldnt have been sold to 
Mrs I, its actually performed quite well and has left her with significantly more money that 
she wouldve had if shed simply left the money on deposit. 
I can also see why Mrs I feels that RBS should pay her back the activation fee. But if she 
hadnt paid this the investment wouldnt have started and she wouldnt have had the benefit 
of the gain the investment made. A calculation that worked out the position Mrs I would be in 
if shed left the money on deposit and had returned the activation fee to her, with interest, 
still shows that shed be worse off. So, it really is the case that shes now financially better off 
having been invested than if she hadnt been. 
The investment gain aside, this matter has clearly caused Mrs I unnecessary distress. But I 
think that RBSs offer to return the advice fee of £500, plus interest along with other various 
sums, to a total of £1,253.30 is fair and acknowledges the trouble thats been caused, as 
well as supporting Mrs I in seeking new advice should she wish to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint, in the sense that 
I consider the offer already made by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to be fair in all the 
circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman