DRN-4083851
The complaint
Mr J complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited should meet his claim on a 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a premium-brand car with a powerful 
engine. It was first registered in about 2015.
In 2020, Mr J acquired the car (with a personal loan he says).
For the year from late January 2022, Mr J had the car insured on a comprehensive policy. 
The policy was in the name of an insurance intermediary. 
Advantage was the insurer responsible for dealing with any claim under most of the sections 
of the policy (but not under the sections on motor legal expenses insurance or on breakdown 
cover).
Unfortunately, in mid-December 2022, two perpetrators got into the car and one of them  
drove it into Mr J as he tried to stop them getting away.
Mr J made a claim to Advantage. Advantage got an investigator to do a telephone interview 
with Mr J.
By a letter dated 9 January 2023, Advantage turned down the claim, saying that Mr J had left 
the car with keys in the ignition.
Mr J complained to Advantage about that. By a final response dated early February 2023, 
Advantage turned down the complaint.
Mr J asked us to investigate.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think it 
was unreasonable for Advantage to decline the claim. She said that Advantage had acted in 
line with the policy terms. 
Mr J disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The thieves made a 200- plus foot trespass through a single- entry / exit fenced private 
compound to get to the car. When he saw them, they were already running and his few 
seconds of thought process and standing start gave them a slight advantage which is 
why he changed direction mid- run to go for the gates. 
They ran him down to prevent him closing the gates and to complete the theft.
Advantage gave him no assistance with accessing the motor legal element of his 
policy with regard to his personal injury. 
Advantage deliberately delayed the repudiation letter.
Advantage hasnt sent us the telephone recording of the interview. 
Advantage shouldve paid his claim. Then he wouldnt have to ride a bicycle, on which 
he has recently been hit by an illegal electric scooter and injured again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. We deal with a consumers complaint against a regulated financial firm. One 
of the rules is that, before we can investigate a complaint, the consumer must first have made 
that complaint to the firm and waited for up to eight weeks for a final response.
I havent seen enough evidence that Mr J complained to Advantage about a claim for personal 
injury or medical expenses or legal expenses. So I dont consider that the rules allow me to 
investigate any such complaints at this stage. In any event, Advantage wasnt the insurer that 
was responsible for a claim under the motor legal expenses section of the policy.
I will concentrate on Mr Js complaint about his claim for the loss of the car. The 
circumstances were shocking and have cast a long shadow for Mr J. However, I have to look 
at whether Advantage treated Mr J unfairly.
The policy terms included the following:
Youre not covered for: theft or damage, if the car keys were left in or on the car or if 
the car is left unattended with the engine running.
Thats not an unusual term. But it is a significant exclusion. 
The Insurance Product Information Document included the following:
Whats not insured?

No cover if the keys or other devices are left in or on your car, or if the cars left 
unattended with the engine running
So Im satisfied that the exclusion had been drawn to Mr Js attention at the time he bought 
the policy.
However, I wouldnt find it fair for Advantage to rely on that exclusion unless the car was 
unattended.
I have no reason to doubt Mr Js version of events, save that it is for me to decide whether 
he had left the car unattended. Ive had the benefit of the images of the incident and the 
statement typed up after the telephone interview. Mr J hasnt highlighted any contested 
details. So I dont consider it proportionate to wait for Advantage try again to get its 
investigator to provide the recording of the telephone interview.
Ive noted that the car was in a fenced and gated compound at Mr Js place of work. From 
the images, Ive noted the position of the gate. 
However, I find that Mr J had left a key in the car. I also find that he had walked away from the car to a position from which he wasnt close 
enough to the car (or to the open gate) to deter or prevent the perpetrators from getting into 
the car and driving it towards the gate. 
So I find that hed left the car unattended.
I accept that Mr J made a great effort to head for the gate to try to close it, but the driver 
deliberately hit him. That was a terrible thing to do to Mr J. 
We dont allow insurers to make distinctions between the offences of theft and taking a 
vehicle without the owners consent. The assault doesnt alter my view that Mr J had left the 
car unattended with the keys in it  and that made it easier for the perpetrators to take the 
car.
So  whilst I dont underestimate the scale of his trauma and loss - I dont find that 
Advantage treated Mr J unfairly by declining his claim. I dont hold Advantage responsible for 
the direct financial consequences of that, or for the more remote consequences of having to 
ride a bicycle on the road.  I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to meet the 
claim.
I accept that Advantage was responsible for delay in sending the letter dated 9 January 
2023. And this caused Mr J some extra irritation when he found out. However, I dont 
consider that this was at a level that makes it fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to pay 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Overall, I dont conclude that it would be fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to do any 
more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman