DRN-3960274
The complaint
Mr F complains about the valuation given for his car by Markerstudy Insurance Company 
Limited, after he made an insurance claim following an accident. Mr F is also unhappy about 
storage charges deducted from the settlement figure.
What happened
To summarise, on 8 May 2021, Mr F was involved in an accident. His car was recovered to a 
garage and he subsequently made a claim on his insurance policy. Mr Fs car was deemed a 
total loss. Markerstudy initially offered Mr F £16,700 as the pre-accident value of his car. 
This was later revised to £18,098. Mr F had chosen to use his own repairer. So Markerstudy 
charged Mr F £1650 storage costs, incurred whilst his car was with his chosen garage. It 
didnt charge him for recovery.
Mr F was unhappy with Markerstudys valuation and with the deductions for storage. He 
complained, but Markerstudy maintained its position.  
Mr F remained unhappy and brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator thought Markerstudys valuation was fair. But he didnt think Mr F should 
have to pay all of the storage costs. He thought it was fair for Markerstudy to charge Mr F 21 
days storage, but that it should refund the rest. He also thought Markerstudy should pay Mr 
F £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Markerstudy accepted our investigators view in part. It disputed the number of days storage 
for which it was liable, but agreed with the proposed compensation. Mr F didnt accept 
Markerstudys offer. As both parties wanted an ombudsman to review things, the case has 
come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint in part. Ill explain my reasoning. 
Valuation
My role is to decide whether Markerstudy acted fairly and in line with the policy terms, when 
reaching a valuation figure for Mr Fs car. Mr Fs policy with Markerstudy says the most it will 
pay in the event of a claim is the market value of the car immediately before the loss. It 
defines this as: 
The cost of replacing the insured vehiclewith one of the same make, model, 
specification and condition. The market value will be assessed by an automotive 
engineer in conjunction with the published trade guides at the time of loss.
Its standard industry practice, and our approach, to use trade guides as a reliable way to 
reach a valuation. And when considering a valuation complaint, our service will review the 
trade guides to assess the overall fairness of the businesss figure. Markerstudy said it used 
three guides, which gave values of £17,720, £18067 and £18,130, figures which our 
investigator also checked. Markerstudys revised valuation of £18,098 is in line with the two 
highest trade guides. So Im satisfied Markerstudy acted fairly and that the valuation figure 
for his car was reasonable. Im aware Markerstudy made an interim payment to Mr F in 
January 2023 for the value of the car, less excess and storage costs. 
Storage costs
Mr F chose to use his own garage. As he didnt want to use one of Markerstudys approved 
repairers, Markerstudy explained to him, in its introduction letter in May 2021, the potential 
implications of using his own repairer. That is, he may become liable for any unnecessary or 
unreasonable storage and recovery costs incurred. This was also explained in a phone call, 
although Mr F says he didnt appreciate the implications. Nevertheless, he was given the 
information. However, that doesnt mean Mr F is liable for all costs  just potentially for any 
unreasonable and unnecessary ones. Indeed, recovery and storage costs are part and 
parcel of dealing with an insurance claim. So I would expect an insurer to cover most of 
those costs in most circumstances. 
Ive looked at the communication between our investigator and Markerstudy. Ive noted 
some minor discrepancies about dates. So for clarity regarding the basis of my decision, Ive 
set out in the table below what I consider to be the relevant periods, based on my review of 
that communication. I should also say that from the information it provided, Markerstudys 
deduction of £1650 from Mr Fs settlement figure was for 66 days storage at £25 per day, 
covering the period 19 May 2021 to 23 July 2021. In error, Markerstudy omitted to charge Mr 
F VAT. However, it was still a cost Markerstudy incurred in settling his storage charges. 
Total period                       
19 May 2021  23 July 2021Number 
of daysPosition before referral for Final Decision
19 May  2 June 15 Mr F liable due to delay in providing an 
estimate for repairs from his garage.
3 June  10 June 8 Markerstudy accepts liability as it was 
reviewing the estimate. Its initial offer was 
sent 10 June.
11 June  16 June 6 Period remains in dispute. 
17 June  22 June 6 Mr F liable due to delay responding to offer.
23 June  11 July 19 Period remains in dispute. Markerstudy says 
Mr F indicated there were potential storage 
costs on 6 July, but this wasnt confirmed until 
later. 
12 July  23 July 12 Markerstudy accepts liability from 12 July 
onwards.
Ive considered the two periods which our investigator thought were reasonably charged by 
Markerstudy, due to delays on Mr Fs part. As a condition of his policy, Mr F was under an 
obligation to give his co-operation, information and assistance in dealing with the claim. 
Markerstudy had to chase Mr F for the estimate, so I think it was reasonable to charge Mr F for the first period 19 May - 2 June. I also think it was reasonable to charge for the second 
period outlined by our investigator, 17  22 June. Mr F was sent Markerstudys offer on 10 
June. As he rejected this offer, I wouldve expected him to contact Markerstudy more 
promptly, so that matters could be progressed.  
I was pleased to see Markerstudy accept liability for two periods; 3  10 June whilst it was 
assessing the claim and 12 July onwards, pending removal of Mr Fs car from the garage. 
This leaves two periods in dispute. Regarding the first period, 11  16 June, our investigator 
thought it was reasonable to allow Mr F a window in which to consider Markerstudys initial 
offer. The offer was well below what Mr F was anticipating and I agree some time to think 
things through is reasonable. So I dont think Mr F should be charged for this period.   
The remaining period in dispute is 23 June  11 July. Markerstudy has said Mr F first told it 
of potential storage charges on 6 July. But I think it was open to Markerstudy to check the 
position with Mr F when he contacted them on 22 June to dispute the settlement, and to 
make enquiries with the garage at an earlier date. So I dont think Mr F should be charged 
for this period either.
This means I think Markerstudy legitimately charged Mr F for 21 days storage between 19 
May  2 June and 17 June  22 June. The cost to Markerstudy was £630 (21 days x £25/day 
+ VAT = £630. As Markerstudy paid VAT on the charges for those days, I think its fair to 
include VAT in the amount its entitled to retain. So Markerstudy needs to refund Mr F the 
£1650 it charged him, less the £630 its entitled to retain. That is, a refund of £1020.
As Mr F initially declined an interim payment, and so did not incur this loss until recently, Im 
not going to add 8% interest to the refund. 
Finally, Markerstudy has agreed to pay Mr F £100 compensation in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience caused. I think this figure is fair.
Putting things right
To put things right, Markerstudy should:
Refund Mr F £1020 for storage costs unfairly deducted from his settlement 
Pay Mr F £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Markerstudy Insurance Company 
Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman