DRN-3594497
The complaint
Ms M isnt happy with the service shes received from Santander UK Plc surrounding her 
attempts to locate a child trust fund opened for her son.
What happened
Ms M opened a child trust fund for her son in 2005 with Santander. Ms M recently asked 
Santander to locate this child trust fund, but Santander explained that while they had a 
record of the account being opened, they also had a record that the account was closed on 
19 February 2009. Santander also noted that all open child trust funds accounts were 
transferred to another business in 2009 and suggested that Ms M contact that other 
business which might be able to assist her. Ms M did contact the other business, which had 
no record of her sons child trust fund, and so she raised a complaint with Santander.
Santander looked at Ms Ms complaint. But they reiterated the account was closed with them 
on 19 February 2009, and because of the time that had elapsed since that date that there 
was no further information remaining on record with them that they could provide. Ms M 
wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Santander had 
acted unfairly towards Ms M in how theyd responded to her enquiries, and so they didnt 
uphold the complaint. Ms M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can appreciate that Ms M would like to understand what happened to the child trust 
fund she opened in 2005, my remit here is to assess whether Santander have acted fairly in 
response to Ms Ms request for information about the account.
Santander have confirmed that theyve undertaken a thorough search of their records and 
that all the information they have about the child trust fund has already been provided by 
them to Ms M. This includes that they have record of the account being opened in 2005, and 
of the account being closed in 2009.
Santander have also confirmed that they havent held any child trust funds since 2009, and 
that in that year all remaining child trust funds held with them were transferred to another 
business. And unfortunately, because of the lack of detail that has survived since 2009, it 
cant be confirmed whether Santanders record of the closure of the account was the result 
of it being transferred to the other business or of the it being closed in some other manner.
Im aware that Ms M feels that Santander may have somehow lost the money in the child 
trust fund, but given the information and evidence available to me, I dont feel that theres 
any compelling evidence to suggest that this is the case  and certainly not to the degree 
where Id consider instructing Santander to pay Ms M the projected balance of the child trust 
fund as shes suggesting here. 
One reason for this is because, given that Santander have record of the account being 
closed with them in 2009, and given that the business to which Santander transferred all 
open child trust finds in 2009 has no record of the account, I feel that the possibility remains 
that the account was closed by some other method in 2009. 
 Furthermore, Im satisfied from the information available to me that Santander didnt in all 
likelihood retain the child trust fund balance beyond the point of the account closure in 2009, 
both because it isnt feasible to retain an account balance without an account to retain it in, 
and also because Santander didnt retain any accounts of that particular type past that year.
All of which means that I dont feel that Santander have acted unfairly towards Ms M in how 
theyve responded to her requests for them to help her find the child trust fund. And this is 
because Im satisfied that Santander dont in all probability hold the balance of the account, 
and also because Im satisfied that Santander have given Ms M all the information that they 
hold on the account to help her try to locate it.
I realise this might not be the outcome Ms M was wanting here, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Santander to take any further action. I hope that Ms M 
will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman