DRN-4072479
The complaint
Mr J complains about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited have handled a claim he 
made on his buildings insurance policy.
Reference to Lloyds includes its agents.
What happened
Mr J holds a buildings insurance policy with Lloyds. When his property suffered damaged 
caused by subsidence, he put in a claim to Lloyds. That claim has been ongoing for a 
number of years.
Mr J is unhappy with the progress and service provided throughout the claim. And over the 
life of the claim hes made a number of complaints to Lloyds  this is his fifth.
This complaint concerns the service provided between September 2021 and August 2022. 
Mr J complains that he wasnt updated, that he wasnt given pricing for the schedule of 
works, and that Lloyds appointed different people to deal with his claim which caused him 
distress and inconvenience.
Lloyds said it had initially tried to keep in contact with Mr J in line with the outcome of a 
previous complaint. But it said at times, it needed Mr Js input in how to proceed. It said the 
cost were commercially sensitive, so couldnt send them to Mr J. And it said different people 
dealing with the claim were down to changes in staff. But it acknowledged that all this would 
have added to the distress and inconvenience of the ongoing claim. It offered Mr J £300 
compensation.
Mr J didnt accept this, and he brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought Lloyds had made 
reasonable attempts to contact Mr J. And thought Mr Js input was needed to progress the 
claim in places. She thought Lloyds were acting reasonably when not providing the costs at 
this stage. And she thought £300 compensation for the period she was looking at (Sept 21  
Aug 22) was reasonable.
Mr J didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I understand this wont be the answer Mr J wants. Ill 
explain my reasoning.
Firstly, its important to note, that while Im not upholding this complaint, it doesnt mean I 
think Lloyds have done nothing wrong. Rather, it means Im satisfied that its offer of 
compensation and action is a reasonable resolution to the complaint.
Secondly, its important to note the scope of this decision. In it, Ill only be considering events 
between September 2021 and August 2022. Ill not be considering the life of this claim. Im 
aware Mr J had made previous complaints to Lloyds, and Lloyds has issued a number of 
final responses on those complaints. But our service isnt able to consider those. For a start, 
Mr J hasnt asked us to. And even if he had, its likely wed say they were out of our 
jurisdiction because theyd be referred to us more than six months after the final response 
letter was sent by Lloyds.
And while Ive considered all the points both Mr J and Lloyds have raised, Ill not be 
commenting on them all, or giving a detailed breakdown of what happened. Rather, Ill focus 
on what I consider the key reasons for not upholding this complaint. Those are:
Im reasonably satisfied with the communication from Lloyds. I can see it and its 
agents made multiple attempts to contact Mr J throughout this time. Some were 
successful, others werent. but Im satisfied they were attempted.
There are times where the claim wasnt progressed because Lloyds were waiting to 
hear from Mr J. its a delicate balance between waiting for a response and chasing to 
move things along. But Im reasonably satisfied Lloyds got that balance right here.
I can see why Mr J was frustrated with not having the costs for the schedule of 
works, but I think Lloyds reasons for not giving them were reasonable at the time. 
And Im not persuaded not having the costs was a reason to not progress with the 
claim.
I can see how changing staff as well as waiting to hear from certain people and that 
not happening would be distressing. But I dont think I can fairly hold Lloyds 
responsible for staff turnover. Importantly, I can see overall, during the timeframe Im 
looking at, Mr Js claim was progressed as well as it could have been (considering it 
needed Mr Js input at times). I dont think the changes in staff affected the 
progression of the claim.
Lloyds has offered £300 compensation for this period. Considering it tried to chase 
Mr J to progress the claim, Im satisfied this is fair for the trouble and upset caused 
during the scope of this complaint.
A home visit was agreed to move the complaint forward. And that seems reasonable 
to me. Anything that happened during that visit or after it is outside the scope of this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman