DRN-4105788
The complaint
Mr M complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) is refusing to refund him the amount he lost as 
the result of a scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mr M tells us he was contacted by an individual (X) impersonating a 
representative of his bank. X told him his account was being hacked and to keep it safe he 
should move his funds to another account.
X had personal information about Mr M including his address. Concerned about the safety of 
his funds Mr M agreed to move his funds to another account. Mr M downloaded the screen 
sharing application AnyDesk and X guided him through how to move the funds to his Revolut 
account. 
Several payments were then made from Mr Ms Revolut account. Mr M has told us these 
payments were part of a scam and although he authorised the payments, he has not 
benefitted from them.
Mr M tells us the following payments were part of the scam:
Date Merchant Payment Method Amount
2 November 2022 Apple Debit Card £899.99
2 November 2022 Back Market Uk Ltd Debit Card £744.64
2 November 2022 Apple Debit Card £849.00
Mr M has not been able to recover any of his lost funds.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ms complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr M 
disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Mr M has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided 
by both Mr M and Revolut sets out what happened. What is in dispute is whether Revolut 
should refund the money Mr M lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Mr M made
The payments were made into the scam via Mr Ms debit card. When payments are made by 
card the only recovery option Revolut has is to request a chargeback.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr M was dealing with X, which was the person that instigated the scam. But the payments 
were not sent to X directly instead they were sent to other legitimate businesses. This is 
important because Revolut would only have been able to process chargeback claims against 
the merchants Mr M paid, not another party.
For each of these payments it is likely the legitimate business that received the payments 
provided goods or services in exchange. Therefore, as they provided the goods/services that 
was requested a chargeback claim against the businesses that received the payments would 
likely fail.
So I dont think Revolut had any reasonable recovery options available to it for the payments 
that were made.
Should Revolut have reasonably prevented the payments Mr M made? 
It has been accepted that Mr M authorised the payments that were made from his account 
with Revolut, albeit on Xs instruction. So, the starting point here is that Mr M is responsible.
However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Revolut should have been aware of the scam and stepped in 
and questioned Mr M about the payments he was making. 
The three payments made in relation to this scam were authorised by Mr M and were made 
to legitimate businesses. None of the payments were of a value high enough that I would 
have expected Revoluts fraud prevention systems to have been triggered prompting it to 
step in and stop the payments being processed.
I think it was reasonable that the payments made into the scam were not stopped by Revolut 
and it is not responsible for Mr Ms loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman