DRN-3133526
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains about the way National Westminster Bank 
Plc handled its application for a Bounce Back Loan. 
Ms director, Mr T, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
M held an account with NatWest and applied to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan in August 
2020, but both its applications were declined. 
When Mr T complained, NatWest said that the correct process had been followed and its 
decision remained the same. Nonetheless it did agree to take a third look at Ms application, 
but confirmed in October that its decision was correct. It said it was unable to provide Mr T 
with the exact reason. So Mr T referred the matter to us.
While the complaint was with us, NatWest reviewed things afresh and invited M to reapply 
for the Bounce Back Loan on 30 March 2021. Mr T submitted a further application and the 
bank approved a £15,000 loan. 
Our investigator thought that it was an error on NatWests part that had stopped M obtaining 
its Bounce Back Loan sooner. The applications had been declined initially due to a marker 
place on Mr Ts record by the bank some time ago and which ought to have been removed. 
While the loan had now been given, she thought that M had been caused some 
inconvenience by the delay and recommended that NatWest pay it £300 compensation. 
NatWest agreed to our investigators recommendation. But Mr T remained unhappy. He 
didnt think a proper explanation as to why M had been declined the Bounce Back Loan 
initially had been given, and he didnt think the proposed compensation was sufficient given 
the disruption to his business plan. He also said that the erroneous marker on his record had 
caused other problems, including the closure of an account for a charity he ran and that it 
had adversely affected other applications for credit. So he asked that an ombudsman review 
the complaint, it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions overall as our investigator and for 
broadly similar reasons. Ill explain why.
While loans provided under both the Bounce Back Loan Scheme were backed by a 
government guarantee, lenders were still required to undertake certain checks before 
approving an application. These included Know Your Customer, anti-money laundering and 
anti-fraud checks. NatWest declined Ms first two applications because they failed the banks 
checks.
The banks checks identified an internal marker against Mr Ts name that led to its decision 
to decline Ms applications in August 2020. But it is now accepted that this marker shouldve 
been removed some time prior to the applications. And had it been, Ms application wouldve 
been approved  as it eventually was when NatWest recognised its error and invited Mr T to 
reapply in March 2021. 
So I think NatWest was responsible for an unreasonable delay in M obtaining its Bounce 
Back Loan. It took around seven months longer than it shouldve done. Ive gone on to 
consider how M lost out as a result of NatWests error.
Mr T told us that the delay disrupted his business plan, so we asked him to describe and 
evidence the losses he thinks M incurred. But hes not provided any detail or evidence of any 
such losses. 
However, I can see how M wouldve been inconvenienced by what happened. It had to 
complete three applications rather than one, follow up with the bank  including by way of 
complaint and referral to us  in an effort to resolve things and make alternative 
arrangements while without the loan. Mr T has also explained that he was unable to pay his 
employees. All of this wouldve taken Mr T away from other company business and its right 
that M is compensated for the inconvenience caused. In this respect, I think the £300 
proposed by our investigator is fair compensation in the circumstances. 
I know that Mr T doesnt accept that the issue with the marker arose simply because of an 
error on the banks part, as he thinks it had ample time and opportunity to have corrected 
things earlier. I dont disagree with that  its that failure to correct things earlier that is the 
error. And Ive not seen anything that leads me to think there was anything more to it than 
that.
Ive also taken into account what Mr T has told us about other issues that he thinks are 
related to the internal marker. He suspects that it impacted his charity account, as well as 
other personal and business dealings. But those matters would need to be dealt with by way 
of separate complaints from the relevant entities  and would need to be put to NatWest in 
the first instance so that it has the opportunity to investigate.
My final decision
I uphold Ms complaint and require National Westminster Bank Plc to pay M compensation of 
£300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman