DRN-4252951
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Revolut Ltd wont refund transactions he says he didnt make or 
otherwise authorise.
What happened
Mr M was phoned by a scammer who impersonated the fraud team at another bank he used. 
They told him hed get notifications someone was trying to make payments on his account 
with that bank, though secretly it was the scammer attempting those payments themselves. 
They told Mr M to reject the payments at first. But when the transactions kept coming, they 
persuaded Mr M to accept them, saying this would allow them to suspend his accounts and 
reverse the payments.
The scammer then asked Mr M about his other accounts, and he told them about Revolut. 
They claimed theyd speak to Revolut themselves to help protect him. They persuaded Mr M 
to give them his Revolut card details, and a security code for setting up Apple Pay on a new 
device, which they said they needed to verify themselves with Revolut. The scammer then 
used Apple Pay to send £4,000 from Mr Ms Revolut account to a cryptocurrency platform.
Mr M reported the matter to Revolut that same day. Revolut looked into doing a chargeback 
for Mr M, but found it couldnt succeed. They held Mr M liable for the payments in dispute as 
hed allowed the scammer to make them by giving over his full card details and a one-time 
passcode for Apple Pay which hed been warned not to share with anyone.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M 
asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I understand that Mr M fell victim to a scam, and so he has my sympathy. I appreciate 
this cant have been an easy time for him, and I appreciate why he feels that his money 
should be returned. Its worth keeping in mind that its the scammer whos primarily 
responsible for what happened, and who really owes Mr M his money back. Whereas this 
case is about Revolut, so I can only consider what Revolut did here.
Broadly speaking, Revolut can hold Mr M liable for the payments in dispute if the evidence 
suggests that he authorised them, or if he failed to keep his account safe either intentionally 
or through acting with gross negligence.
Theres an argument that by handing over his full card details and the Apple Pay security 
code needed to make payments, Mr M gave the scammer his apparent authority to use his 
account. It effectively meant that Revolut couldnt know it wasnt Mr M making the payments. 
That would mean that the payments would be considered as authorised  and so Mr M 
would be liable for them in the first instance.
On the other hand, Mr M didnt ask the scammer to make these payments, nor hand over 
those details with the understanding that theyd be used for payments. He thought he was 
giving that information for security purposes in order to stop payments being made. So its 
perhaps more arguable that these payments were unauthorised.
Ive then thought carefully about whether Mr Ms actions would constitute gross negligence. 
I appreciate that this was a sophisticated scam, that Mr M was under pressure, and that he 
thought he was actually protecting his account. But at the same time, Mr M gave full access 
to his Apple Pay to a stranger whod cold-called him from an anonymous number and whose 
reasons for needing this were not plausible.
I appreciate the scammer knew some of Mr Ms details, but those details would not have 
been particularly difficult to obtain, they didnt prove that they were who they said they were, 
and Mr M didnt take any steps to objectively verify what he was being told  such as by 
contacting Revolut or his other bank himself. More importantly, what the scammer told Mr M 
regarding Revolut was not reasonably plausible. They were impersonating a staff member 
from a different bank  not Revolut. And a bank would not need a customer to give over their 
full card details including the security number, let alone for a different bank. When Revolut 
sent Mr M the one-time passcode for Apple Pay, they set out clearly that this was to add his 
card to Apple Pay on another device and that he shouldnt share this with anyone even if 
they claim to be from the bank. So Mr M ought to have realised that this was a code to set 
up Apple Pay, and not a code to give out. He didnt have a reasonable basis on which to 
believe that the person he was speaking to needed this code. And he was given a very clear 
and relevant warning for his situation, but he did not take heed of it. Moreover, Mr Ms other 
bank had already given him a relevant warning repeatedly shortly before this.
So by the time Mr M handed his Apple Pay security code to the scammer, I find that he no 
longer had a reasonable basis to believe what he was being told, and that he was seriously 
disregarding a clear risk following repeated warnings. Im afraid I would consider that to be 
gross negligence, and so I cannot hold Revolut liable for the payments at hand. This is a 
difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr M to receive. But 
given the circumstances of this case, Im unable to reasonably reach another conclusion.
Ive also considered whether Revolut should have flagged the payments or intervened. 
Revolut should have been on the lookout for payments which could be the result of fraud or 
scams, to help prevent them. But I also accept that a balance must be struck between 
identifying and responding to potentially fraudulent payments, and ensuring theres minimal 
disruption to legitimate payments.While the scammers payments were for large amounts, they were not so large that Id 
necessarily expect Revolut to have intervened. Mr M pointed out the risks of cryptocurrency 
payments, and I understand his arguments. For another customer, it might have been 
considered unusual for large payments to suddenly go out for crypto. However, in Mr Ms 
case I can see that he made a number of payments for crypto from his Revolut account in 
the period before the scam. Indeed, crypto made up the vast bulk of his spending over the 
prior year. So the payments involved were not so unusual or out of character that Revolut 
needed to intervene here.
Lastly, Ive considered what Revolut did to try to recover Mr Ms money after he told them 
about the scam. While there are methods for trying to recover funds lost to scams, they only 
apply to certain types of payments, like bank transfers  but not to these Apple Pay card 
payments. And it wasnt realistically possible for Revolut to have got Mr Ms money back via 
a chargeback, as chargebacks can only be made for certain reasons under strict rules, and 
there wasnt a chargeback reason which wouldve been appropriate here. So Im afraid there 
wasnt anything more Revolut could have reasonably done.
So while I know this will come as a disappointment for Mr M, and while it is not my intention 
to disappoint him, I cannot fairly hold Revolut responsible for the transactions in dispute.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman