DRN-3434569
The complaint
Ms H complains that Creation Financial Services Limited trading as Creation rejected 
her section 75 claim.
What happened
In August 2020 Ms H was supplied with a brand-new car from a dealership and paid using 
her Creation credit card. The purchase price was £11,327.17 discounted to £10,257.60. 
Ms H paid £7,257.60 on her credit card and received a part exchange allowance of £3000 
for her old car.
In June 2021 Ms H experienced an issue with the air conditioning system which had 
started making a whining noise. The car was returned to the dealership who 
acknowledged the noise and notified the manufacturer. The manufacturer said it was 
aware of the issue and said it would be resolved under the warranty.
After a few weeks, Ms H chased for an update but was told that no timeframe had been 
given as to when the issue would be fixed. Ms H said she had lost faith in the car and 
asked to reject it. The dealership said it wouldnt accept a rejection because no fault had 
been found and the air conditioning was continuing to function. It offered to buy back the 
car for £8500 as a gesture of goodwill to resolve the matter.
Ms H wasnt happy with the sum offered. She said the car was worth more. The 
dealership increased its offer to £8835. Following this, Ms H returned the car, received 
£8835 and purchased another car.
Ms H has said that when she accepted the offer of £8835, she did so on the basis that 
she would pursue Creation for the difference between this sum, and what she felt the 
sum was worth on the open market based on her own research, which she said was 
£9500.
Ms H raised a section 75 claim with creation in September 2021. Creation rejected the 
claim. It said that Ms H had resolved her claim by accepting £8835 and that her claim for 
£665 was outside the scope of section 75.
Ms H remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he was satisfied that Ms Hs car had a 
defect which meant that it wasnt of satisfactory quality. The investigator said that Ms H was 
denied her right to reject the car and had been forced into an alternative remedy which left 
her out of pocket. The investigator said that the dealership, having paid Ms H the sum of 
£8835, then marketed the car for £9995, and said that Ms H should have a refund for the 
difference being £1160.
Creation didnt respond to the investigators view so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. 
In order to uphold Ms Hs complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a 
breach of contract, and that Creations response to the claim under section 75 wasnt fair 
and reasonable.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. A car is of 
satisfactory quality if it is of a standard that a reasonable person would regard as 
acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and the 
price paid. The quality of goods includes their general state and condition, as well as other 
things including fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety and durability.
Ive looked at the available evidence. Ms H reported a fault with the air conditioning after 
she had owned the car for around 10 months. The dealership acknowledged the fault and 
contacted the manufacturer, who also acknowledged the fault and agreed to resolve the 
issue under warranty.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there was a fault with the car. So, Ive gone on to 
consider whether this meant that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Ive taken into 
account the fact that the car was brand new at the point of supply. I dont think a reasonable 
person would expect to experience a fault with the air conditioning so early on in an 
agreement for a brand-new car. Under the relevant legislation, the car should be free from 
minor defects for a reasonable period of time. In this case, the car wasnt free from minor 
defects after 10 months. Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality and that theres been a breach of contract. Because of this, Creation is 
responsible under section 75.
Putting things right
Under section 75 Ms H had the right to ask for a repair or a replacement. A repair couldnt 
be completed within a reasonable timescale and there was no replacement available. 
Therefore, Ms H had the right to reject the car. However, the dealership didnt allow a 
rejection but instead offered to buy back the car. Ms H said she was worried that she 
wouldnt be able to sell the car on the open market with the fault and felt pressurised into 
accepting the sum offered by the dealership. She said she accepted the offer of £8835 on 
the basis that she would pursue the difference between this and what she believed the 
market value of the car to be.
Creation rejected the section 75 claim for the shortfall and said Ms H had already 
resolved her claim by accepting £8835. I dont think Creations response to the section 75 
claim was fair or reasonable. As Ive explained above, Ms H should have been allowed to 
reject the car. Instead, she was offered a buy back at a sum less than market value.
Ive thought about what the market value of the car was. Ms H has said that she thinks it was
£9500 based on her own research,. I can see that the dealership , who are experts in 
the busines of selling cars, advertised the car for £9995. I think this figure is a more 
reliable indicator of market value.
Taking everything into account, I think the fairest way to resolve the section 75 claim is for Creation to refund Ms H the sum of £1160 (the difference between the sum she 
received, and the market value of the car).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Financial Services trading 
as Creation must:
Refund Ms H the sum of £1160
Pay simple interest of 8% per annum on this sum from the date of the offer (20 
September 2021) to the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman