DRN-2272244
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D say they only repaid their The One Account with The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc in early 2014 due to conversations theyd had with the bank in late 2012. They say those 
calls led them to believe their house would be repossessed if they got into any financial 
difficulties. So when Mr D was made redundant in late 2013 they used his redundancy pay 
and enhanced pension lump sum to repay the mortgage rather than speak to RBS.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it again 
here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, for the following 
reasons.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Mr and Mrs D took out this mortgage in 1999. They opted to take it on a repayment basis, 
which means Mr and Mrs D should have been leaving enough in the account each month so 
that the balance would reduce. 
Instead, throughout the life of the account Mr and Mrs D were frequently up to  and at times 
over  the facility limit. The annual review in September 2012 showed the outstanding 
balance was £119,549 against the £70,025 it should have been at that point if the loan was 
on track to be repaid in 2019 (which was the contract Mr and Mrs D had entered into).
Due to the fact Mr and Mrs D were nearly £50,000 behind plan at that point, RBS wrote to  
them on 9 October 2012 and 2 November 2012 without receiving a reply. After a third letter 
was issued on 15 November 2012 Mr and Mrs D made contact with RBS and it was agreed 
that the mortgage term would be extended by six years, and the maximum facility reduced 
slightly so Mr and Mrs D could benefit from a lower interest rate. A letter confirming the 
changes was issued on 20 November 2012, and a statement issued a month later showed 
they were now £8,511 ahead of plan.
The next annual review was issued in September 2013 and that showed Mr and Mrs D were 
still ahead of their plan, but now by only £6,861. A few months later Mr D was made 
redundant. His £36,716 redundancy payment went into the account on 23 December 2013, 
and then a £125,272 lump sum payment from his pension went in on 3 January 2014. That 
left the account around £40,000 in credit.
Mr D has said, if it wasnt for what happened in 2012, he would have drawn a £49,879 lump 
sum from his pension, which would have left him with an annual pension income of £24,977. 
Instead he says he felt he had to maximise the lump sum and so instead drew the higher 
sum of £125,272 which reduced his annual pension income to £18,728. Hes said what he 
was told on the phone in 2012 was the sole reason for that decision:
I do not consider it unreasonable to believe that they would carry out their previous 
threats to repossess. Do you really believe that I would have received a sympathetic 
ear when Id previously been told categorically that any future financial issues would 
lead to repossession  not could, but would?
If they did not threaten me in the way reported then why did I not contact them on 
being made redundant to discuss my options?
It is unfortunate that Mr and Mrs D didnt make a complaint at the time if they felt undue 
pressure in 2012, and then felt they couldnt approach RBS about Mr Ds loss of employment 
in 2013. As had they done so then the call in question (from November 2012) would have 
been available for us to listen to. Instead we have Mr D telling us that he was told his house 
would be repossessed if he had any future financial difficulties, yet a call note from RBS 
dated 20 November 2012 which doesnt indicate that was said.
Mr D has told us he was in a senior job as a director for a local authority, and that he 
managed over 100 staff and was responsible for a budget approaching £500m, so he was 
very used to taking financial decisions and was in no doubt drawing down the larger pension 
lump sum wasnt in his and Mrs Ds long term interests. Bearing all that in mind Im surprised 
Mr D thought RBS would be able to go straight to reposession for any future financial 
difficulties when the account hadnt been formally in arrears as it was running within the 
maximum facility limit and thered never been any legal action. Especially such that he would 
have made such a serious financial decision without even speaking to RBS first to discuss 
his options. 
Instead I believe, as did our investigator, that it was more likely Mr and Mrs D decided to 
maximise the pension lump sum so they could repay their mortgage, rather than it being 
something they did because of threats from RBS of repossession. Otherwise Id question 
why Mr D didnt just drawdown the £49,879 pension lump sum which (once added to the 
redundancy payment) would have reduced the mortgage balance to around £35,000. Based 
on the interest rate and term remaining at the time, that would have meant around £315 a 
month would have been sufficient to repay the debt in time. Thats a sum that would have 
been more than affordable from the £24,977 annual pension income Mr D would then have 
received, even more so once he was topping his pension income up with his self-employed 
income.
RBS would have had no interest in where the sums were coming from as long as the debt 
was on track to be repaid in full by November 2025, and there would have been no reason 
for RBS to take any action.
When considering any complaint like this, as Mr and Mrs D are the ones bringing the 
complaint against RBS, to uphold the complaint Mr and Mrs Ds version (which is that they 
only drew down the larger pension lump sum because of repossession threats made by RBS 
in a phone call a year earlier) needs to be more likely than RBSs version; not just as likely. 
Having considered everything I cant say Mr and Mrs Ds version is anything more than just 
as likely, which isnt enough for me to uphold their complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with how RBS handled their complaint. RBS has 
already admitted it made mistakes with how it handled matters and has paid compensation 
to Mr and Mrs D. The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the regulator 
requires financial businesses to do. But that isnt enough to make it a regulated activity 
within the meaning of the rule; that is, one from the list of activities set out in the legislation 
from which we derive our powers. Were able to consider concerns about complaint handling 
in some limited circumstances, but there is another thing that we need to consider and that is 
that we can only make an award for any poor customer service in handling a complaint if 
were upholding the underlying issue being complained about and it is intrinsically linked. As 
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, then it follows I cant uphold any complaint and 
award any compensation for how their complaint was handled.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman