DRN-4170762
The complaint
Mr A complains West Bay Insurance Plc unfairly cancelled his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In October 2020 Mr A took out a West Bay motor insurance policy. In early 2021 the insurer 
charged him an additional premium after reducing his no claims discount (NCD) entitlement. 
Mr A had said, when taking out the cover, he had nine years NCD. He accepted he had 
been mistaken and it was seven. 
But around May 2021 West Bay cancelled the cover. It was explained to Mr A this was the 
result of an unacceptable gap in previous cover. However, in response to a complaint 
West Bay said it was unable to insure him as his hadnt lived in the UK for a full three years 
before the policy started. It explained this was outside of its underwriting criteria.
Mr A wasnt satisfied so he came to this service. He wants a refund of the additional 
premium and all admin fees charged  including for the cancellation. 
Our investigator felt West Bay had acted in line with the relevant legislation  the Insurance 
Act 2015. So she didnt recommend it do anything differently. Mr A didnt accept that, so the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.  
In June 2023 I issued a provisional decision. Its reasoning forms part of this final decision, so 
Ive copied it in below. I explained why I didnt intend to uphold Mr As complaint. I also 
invited him and West Bay to provide any further information for me to consider before issuing 
this final decision. West Bay didnt respond. Mr A asked for a recording of the call between 
him and the broker and provided a few comments.
 What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
West Bay cancelled Mr As policy as it feels information it was given when the cover 
was taken out, regarding his residence in the UK, was incorrect. It says he hadnt 
been resident in the UK since the 1950s as originally stated. Instead he had been 
living outside the UK for 14 months prior to the inception of the policy in October 
2020. So, in line with its underwriting guidance it was unable to offer cover. The 
relevant legislation for me to consider for this issue is the Insurance Act 2015 (the 
Act).
When Mr A took out the policy he had a duty  under the Act  to make a fair 
presentation of the risk. So this means it was his responsibility to ensure West Bay 
had all the information it needed to accurately assess the risk it was being asked to 
cover.
After receiving a quote via a website Mr A called the broker that arranged the cover. 
He says he explained about being out of the country for a period. 
Ive listened to the call and he didnt mention being out of the country at any point. 
And while our investigator implied he was asked directly about this, Ive not found this 
to be the case. In fact I havent seen anything, so far, that persuades me he did 
explain, before the policy started, that he had been abroad for 14 months.  
Ive seen Mr As policy documents from the time. The Statement of Insurance says 
Resident in the UK since. Adjacent it gives a date in 1959. Im satisfied West Bay 
wanted to know about his residence  and this was the information it was given in 
response.  
The document asks Mr A to check the information is correct. It warns he is required 
to take reasonable steps to provide correct information  and warns incorrect 
information could adversely affect his policy. Finally it advises if hes unsure about 
any information, he should get in touch.  
Months later, resulting from the NCD clarification, West Bay found out Mr A had been 
out of the country in recent years. Hes explained, in a letter to West Bay, he had 
been in a foreign country for 14 months before the policy started. West Bay 
interpreted this as him not being resident in the UK throughout the three years prior 
to the policy starting. I cant say thats unreasonable or unfair.
Mr As said he was still resident in the UK for tax purposes - and owned property 
here. However, the question on the statement of insurance didnt specify residence 
for tax purposes  or ownership of property. Its a general one about residence. 
Considering how recent his time abroad had been, it would have been reasonable for 
Mr A to have sought clarification of the information required and explained the 14 
months. As set out above he had opportunities to do so  including during the call 
and after receiving the statement of insurance. Unfortunately he didnt  and so West 
Bay wasnt provided with the relevant information. So its reasonable to say there 
was a breach of the duty to provide it with a fair presentation of the risk.
But for West Bay to have taken any action, like avoiding the policy, the Act requires it 
to show the breach was a qualifying one. Essentially it needs to show that if the 
correct residency information had been presented it would have done something 
differently - for example not offered cover or only done so on different terms.
West Bays provided part of its underwriting criteria. Having seen that Im satisfied it 
wouldnt have offered cover at all had it been told Mr A hadnt been resident in the 
UK in the period prior to taking out the cover. So there was a qualifying breach. And 
because West Bay wouldnt have offered cover the Act allows it to avoid the policy. It 
chose to cancel it instead. That doesnt seem to have put Mr A to be in a worse 
position than an avoidance. So it acted fairly and reasonably  and so I dont intend 
to require it to do anything differently regarding the cancellation. 
Neither do I regarding the additional premium for the NCD reduction. West Bay was 
initially told Mr A had nine years. But this was later amended to seven. Mr As 
accepted he made a mistake with this. So I cant say West Bay did anything wrong 
here. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A says there was no duty for him to explain he had been abroad. Instead he feels there 
was a duty on West Bay to consider why he hadnt owned a vehicle or had insurance 
recently despite holding many years of NCD. But I dont agree the insurer was required to do 
that type of analysis. 
Instead there was a duty on Mr A to make a fair presentation of the risk. As I said in my 
provisional decision - the Statement of Insurance says Resident in the UK since. Adjacent 
it gives a date in 1959. The document asks Mr A to check the information is correct. It warns 
he is required to take reasonable steps to provide correct information  and warns incorrect 
information could adversely affect his policy. Finally it advises if hes unsure about any 
information, he should get in touch.  
I still feel it would have been reasonable for Mr A to have sought clarification of the 
information required and explained the 14 months. He had opportunities to do so  including 
during the call and after receiving the statement of insurance. Unfortunately he didnt  and 
so West Bay wasnt provided with the relevant information. So its reasonable to say there 
was a breach of the duty to provide it with a fair presentation of the risk.
So I still feel West Bay acted fairly and reasonably when cancelling Mr As policy. Im not 
going to require it to do anything differently.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman