DRN-3882258
The complaint
Mr U has complained about his car insurer Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited 
because it declined liability to him for an injury claim from a pedestrian, then, having settled 
the pedestrians claim, asked him to reimburse it over £90,000 being its outlay less his 
premium paid.
What happened
Watford was advised in August 2019 of an incident of a car striking a pedestrian and the car 
was believed to have been Mr Us. Mr U spoke to Watford and denied involvement. He later 
agreed to be interviewed by Watford and for his car to be inspected. The inspecting engineer 
found no damage and Mr U was not then inclined to be interviewed.
Watford was sent CCTV footage. It asked the engineer to review his initial report on the car 
in light of that footage. The engineer was satisfied there was damage to the car consistent 
with the incident as visible in the footage. Watford told Mr U that he should have cooperated 
with it but that in light of the CCTV footage it would be settling the pedestrians claim. 
Several months later Watford confirmed to Mr U that as he had breached the policy term to 
cooperate with it, it expected him to repay its costs for settling with the pedestrian. Watford 
told Mr U he had to pay it over £90,000 but that he could do that in instalments if he wished. 
Mr U didnt think that was fair and complained to us.
Our Investigator didnt think Watford had acted fairly by declining liability to Mr U or asking 
him to repay its outlay. She said it should stop asking him for repayment of its settlement 
and pay him £750 compensation. 
Mr U said he was happy with the outcome. Watford said it disagreed with it. It felt it had been 
clear that Mr U needed to cooperate with it. And it also said it seemed unlikely, given how 
uncooperative Mr U had been, that even if it had told him the amounts of money at stake, 
that he wouldve done anything differently. Watford asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Watford failed Mr U on this occasion. I think it has to confirm to Mr U that he doesnt 
owe it any money and pay him £750 compensation. Ill explain. 
Watford knew from the outset that the pedestrian claim was likely to be costly. Its file shows 
it expected costs to be in excess of £25,000. That is a substantial amount of money even 
though it is only about a quarter of the final settlement sum.
At the outset Mr U didnt think he had hit the pedestrian. It became clear later that he likely 
had  Watford settled with the pedestrian on the basis that had happened and Mr U faced 
criminal proceedings in that respect. But all of that happened subsequent to the period when 
Watford was trying to discuss the claim with Mr U.
Id stress that most policies of insurance require the policyholder to cooperate with the 
insurers reasonable enquires. And this service will often support an insurer endeavouring to 
complete such. But I can understand why Mr U in 2019 felt that Watfords enquiries were 
unreasonable  because he believed he hadnt hit the pedestrian and this belief was 
supported by the initial findings of Watfords engineer, which Mr U was made aware of. 
Whilst I know that Watford did tell Mr U about the CCTV evidence received, which it felt 
showed his involvement, it never updated him regarding the change of view of the engineer. 
Further, whilst Watford told Mr C that it may decline liability to him for the claim, even whilst 
settling with the pedestrian, it never told Mr U what that might mean. Not until after it had 
made its decision. I think if it had told Mr U that would likely have made a difference. I can 
understand Mr U on principle feeling he did not need to speak with Watford, given the 
engineers findings. But I think that any reasonable person, if told that not speaking to the 
insurer will likely result in 10s of thousands of pounds being owed to the insurer  would 
likely become amenable to a further discussion. I dont think Watford did enough to explain 
to Mr U what the impact to him on his failure to cooperate might be. The policy required his 
cooperation but I think he still reasonably needed to be able to make an informed decision 
about complying with that  and that meant he needed to be made aware, clearly, of what 
the consequences to him of non-compliance might be. I dont think Watford did that here. So 
I dont think it can fairly and reasonably expect Mr U to reimburse its claim outlay of over 
£90,000. 
Im also mindful though that with the engineers revised view on the damage exhibited on 
Mr Us car, and the CCTV footage, its likely that Mr Us lack of cooperation did not make 
one iota of difference to the claim outcome or settlement Watford paid. Certainly Watford has 
not shown that the outcome was affected. So, even looking at this just from the perspective 
of the outcome of the pedestrians claim, I think its a bit harsh to seek recovery from Mr U of 
the outlay. His lack of cooperation, in my view, was, on this occasion no more than a 
technical breach of the policy requirements. And, as Watford likely knows, this service wont 
usually find that it is fair for policyholders to be negatively affected by a technical breach ie 
one which is not material.
I can see that Mr U has been very upset by Watfords demand for money. I think most 
people would worry about being told they would have to pay over £90,000. And I bear in 
mind that this demand by Watford, for Mr U, came at a particularly difficult time. I trust that 
this decision, which, if accepted within the deadline given, will prohibit Watford from claiming 
its outlay back from Mr U, will bring an end to his worries. But I also think that for the upset 
that the demand caused Mr U, £750 compensation is fairly and reasonably due.
Putting things right
I require Watford to:
Stop viewing Mr U as owing it £91,720.25, being its outlay for the pedestrians claim, less 
the policy payments and confirm to Mr U that he does not have to pay it anything.
Pay Mr U £750 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to act in line 
with and provide the redress set out above at Putting things right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman