DRN-3777243
The complaint
Mrs and Mr H complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (LBG) declined their 
claim for the loss of jewellery.
Mrs and Mr H jointly held a home insurance policy with LBG. For ease of reading, and 
because he brought the complaint, Ill refer mainly to Mr H throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr H claimed under the policy for loss of jewellery valued at over £15,000. To protect Mrs 
and Mr Hs identity, I wont go into detail about the circumstances which led to the claim. 
Both parties are aware of the events, which arent disputed. 
LBG declined the claim because there hadnt been an insured peril. Mr H complained LBG 
hadnt considered fully the individual circumstances.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there was no evidence of accidental 
loss or theft, and the policy didnt provide cover for deliberately discarded items. Therefore, 
our investigator thought LBG had declined the claim fairly and in line with the policy.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for further consideration of the circumstances, so the complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Im sorry to hear of the circumstances of this claim, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. Ill explain why.
As Ive said, the events leading to the loss of jewellery arent disputed. The issue is that the 
jewellery was deliberately discarded, and the policy doesnt provide cover under those 
circumstances. I dont think Mr H disputes that. 
My understanding is that Mr H thinks LBG should look at the overall circumstances - that the 
jewellery was probably stolen after it was discarded. That may be the case, but the 
responsibility is on him to show that he suffered an insured peril.
LBG relied on the police report that an incident had taken place rather than a crime, 
suggesting there was insufficient evidence of theft. LBG also relied on the policy terms and 
conditions which state the policyholder must safeguard property from loss. Having 
considered this evidence, along with everything Mr H provided, Im satisfied that LBGs 
decision to decline the claim was fair and reasonable, and in line with the policy.
While I realise this will be a disappointment to Mrs and Mr H, I cant say that LBG treated 
them unfairly by declining their claim for the reasons it gave.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman