DRN-2887589
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Ltd (LV) declined her claim 
under her buildings insurance for storm damage. Mrs Bs daughter brought the complaint on 
her behalf but, for ease, Ill simply refer to Mrs B throughout my decision.
What happened
In brief, Mrs Bs roof leaked and her garden wall collapsed during a storm. She claimed 
under her buildings insurance and LV sent an assessor to inspect the damage. The 
assessor said there wasnt a storm and that both areas of damage were the result of wear 
and tear. LV declined Mrs Bs claim.
Mrs B complained to LV because she didnt think her property was in poor condition and she 
provided evidence of the storm. LV maintained its position and declined the claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. While she agreed with Mrs B that thered been 
a storm, she thought LVs expert report was compelling. Our investigator didnt think LV had 
done anything wrong.
Mrs B didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mrs B will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for 
broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain.
The issue here is that Mrs B thinks LV shouldve paid her claim. Ive looked at the policy and 
Im satisfied it covers her buildings for storm damage. My role, then, is to decide whether LV 
declined Mrs Bs claim fairly, and in line with the policy.
LV declined the claim because it thought the damaged areas already showed signs of wear 
and tear. It declined the claim under the following policy term:
Your policy does not cover claims arising from wear and tear or gradual deterioration. Its 
your responsibility to keep your home in good condition. If you dont do this, we may 
reduce the amount well pay in the event of a claim, or the claim may not be covered.
Ive considered three things to decide whether it was fair for LV to rely on this term. Ill 
address each in turn.
Was there a storm?
Although LVs report said there wasnt a storm, I think both parties are now in agreement 
that there was. Often, the definition of a storm is based on the force of wind, so I can see 
why in this case LV mightve said there was no evidence of a storm on the day. However, its 
clear from reliable weather reports and Mrs Bs evidence that there was a wet storm (heavy 
rainfall). 
I know Mrs B thinks LV assessed her claim on the basis that there wasnt a storm. But I hope 
she can see that Ive accepted there was, and Ive gone on to consider LVs decision on that 
basis. 
Is the damage consistent with that typically caused by a storm?
Roof
While its not uncommon for a storm to cause roof damage, I dont think thats what 
happened here. LVs expert report says the roof showed signs of several previous repairs, 
particularly where the upper floor opened out onto the single storey flat roof. The report also 
says the roof needed further maintenance unrelated to the claim. It seems that Mrs B hasnt 
really disputed this and, having looked at the photos supplied, Im satisfied that LVs 
conclusion about the roof is fair. The damage inside Mrs Bs home  wet walls under the 
areas of previous repairs - is typical of that seen when heavy rain exposes existing wear and 
tear.  
Based on the evidence available, Im satisfied that the roof damage wasnt consistent with 
that caused by a storm, and I think LV fairly declined this element of the claim.
 
Garden wall
The photos show a boundary wall which has collapsed into the road alongside Mrs Bs 
garden. Walls should be able to withstand heavy rainfall and forceful winds, although in 
extreme conditions it is possible for a storm to cause damage to a wall. So, while not 
consistent with damage typically caused by a storm, given this possibility, Ill move on to the 
final consideration. 
Was the storm the only or main cause of the damage?
LVs report says that the wall showed signs of deterioration, and it referenced photos publicly 
available online to support its opinion. Mrs B says her property was in good condition and 
she believes some maintenance work was carried out over the years.
Ive looked at the evidence presented, including the online images of the wall before it 
collapsed. I can see that LVs report says the wall likely collapsed because its construction 
wasnt good enough to retain the full weight of the garden soil. In the absence of any 
contradictory evidence, its reasonable to rely on the experts report and, having considered 
the before and after photos, I understand why LV reached its decision to decline. The 
assessor reported that the construction of the wall was inadequate for its purpose because it 
was a single block wall and didnt have any signs of retention behind the blockwork to 
receive the weight of the soil.
Ive looked at the online images of the wall, taken several years before it collapsed. I agree 
that there are some signs of wear and tear, such as mortar deterioration and vegetation 
growth. While Mrs B says some maintenance wouldve been carried out, I dont think that 
really matters now. Thats because the construction of the wall was still inadequate to retain 
the garden soil and that can be seen in the photos after it collapsed.
Based on the evidence, then, I think its reasonable to accept LVs view that the wall 
collapsed because it wasnt built to the standard expected of a retaining wall and that, over 
time, the weight of the soil had become too much for it. So, while theres no dispute that the 
wall collapsed during the heavy rainfall, it seems the damage wasnt caused by it. That is, 
had the wall been of proper construction to retain the weight of the soil, its unlikely it 
wouldve collapsed during the wet storm. For these reasons, Im satisfied that LV fairly declined Mrs Bs claim in line with the terms of 
the policy and I see no reason to ask it to pay the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman