DRN-2953636
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited, trading as NFU Mutual, havent paid enough to settle a claim under her holiday 
accommodation insurance complaint.  
 
Mrs B has been helped in bringing her complaint by her husband Mr B. However, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of Mrs B. 
What happened
Mrs B held an insurance policy with NFU. She claimed on her policy after her holiday 
accommodation was forced to close following the Governments response to the national 
Covid-19 pandemic.  
 
NFU initially turned down Mrs Bs claim. Mrs B complained to NFU and NFU agreed to pay 
the claim under infectious diseases as they recognised there was a discrepancy between 
the wording on the schedule and the policy.  
 
After NFU settled the claim, Mrs B said NFU hadnt paid enough. She said the policy should 
pay her £10,000 per event plus up to £500,000 for loss of profits. NFU said the policy 
schedule set out that the claim limit was £10,000 per event and up to £50,000 for the period 
of insurance. They added that the £500,000 limit for loss of profits was for other losses in the 
policy that didnt have specific limits within the schedule. Mrs B remained unhappy with 
NFUs response and brought her complaint to our service.  
 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Bs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
thought NFU had settled the claim fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms of the 
policy. 
 
Mrs B didnt agree. She said the policy clearly states that she is covered for £10,000 per 
event and £50,000 in any one period of insurance. She said it wasnt about NFU being fair 
and reasonable but about them acting in line with the wording set out in the policy.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I am only making a decision on Mrs Bs claim for closure of her business 
between March 2020 and July 2020 and with regard to whether NFU have settled under the 
correct indemnity limit. If Mrs B is unhappy about claims following further lockdowns or about 
how NFU have calculated her profit, she would need to complain about that separately.  
 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact 
on Mrs Bs business. But Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.    
   
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if NFU have acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when declining Mrs 
Bs claim. In addition to this, Im also required to reach a decision based on what I think is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
 
The relevant part of Mrs Bs schedule says: 
 
                                                                            Limit 
 
Food or drink poisoning, infectious diseases     £10,000 any one event 
 or assault         
                                                                          £50,000 any period of insurance  
 
Loss of profits                                                   £500,000 
 
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) says: 
 
Loss of profit claims for food or drink poisoning, or any contagious or infectious 
disease, is limited to £10,000 each claim and £50,000 in total 
 
The Schedule and the IPID need to be read in conjunction with the policy document. Mrs Bs 
policy document says she is covered for loss of profit due to various events. One of the 
covered events is any human disease within 25 miles of her holiday home. Human disease 
is specifically defined in the policy as a list of diseases, which doesnt include Covid-19. 
So, for this reason, NFU initially turned down the claim. However, NFU decided that as the 
policy schedule said there was cover for infectious diseases but that wasnt reflected in the 
wording of the policy, they would pay out in line with the wording on the schedule. This says 
Mrs B is covered for a limit of £10,000 for one event and £50,000 in any period of 
insurance.  
 
As with most policies of this kind, Mrs Bs policy is there to indemnify her against the 
financial loss her business has suffered. The wording of the policy is clear that it covers a 
loss of profits due to covered events. While there is a discrepancy between the wording of 
the covered event and the wording in the schedule, I think its fair and reasonable for NFU to 
base the settlement of the claim on the losses Mrs B has actually incurred as that is in line 
with the wording on the schedule and the IPID.  
 
The IPID says that loss of gross profit claims for infectious diseases is limited to £10,000. 
So, this indicates that a claim under infectious diseases would be for a loss of profit. While it 
does say and £50,000 in total, this shows it could be up to £50,000 if there were further 
events in the same period of insurance. I dont think it could reasonably be interpreted to 
mean that Mrs B was entitled to £10,000 plus an additional £50,000 for the same event. 
Moreover, the use of the word limit in the schedule indicates that this is the most that NFU 
will pay and not the amount that is automatically paid if that event occurs. The reference to a 
£500,000 limit for gross profit is for other events which dont have a specific limit set out on 
the schedule.  
 
I appreciate there has been some confusion because the wording NFU have settled the 
claim under isnt set out in the policy document. However, I dont think this has been of 
detriment to Mrs B, because Im satisfied NFU have settled the claim in line with the relevant 
wording on the schedule and IPD.  
 I realise this isnt the outcome Mrs B was hoping for, but having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require NFU to increase the settlement for this particular 
claim period.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman