DRN-4289913
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money he lost after falling 
victim to a scam.
What happened
In 2022, Mr O was looking into investing in precious metals. He found an advert for an 
investment firm, and gave them his contact details to find out more. The firm was actually 
run by scammers. They called him and over time he spoke to multiple people posing as 
investment analysts, who he said came across as knowledgeable and professional, and they 
built a rapport with him.
Mr O was set up with his own account on their secure website, which showed live trading 
data and charts. He found independent articles talking about the firms successes, and they 
sent him a newsletter as well as information about precious metals investing. They set out 
that he could earn exceptional returns.
The scammers persuaded Mr O to invest £5,000. He did this by taking out a £5,000 loan 
with Lloyds then forwarding the money on by an international payment from his Lloyds 
current account. He later sent the scammers approximately £6,700 for a further investment.
Mr O realised hed been scammed when he was unable to access the money hed invested 
and the website was taken down. He reported the matter to Lloyds.
Lloyds refunded the second payment  of around £6,700  as it accepted Mr O was more 
susceptible to the scam owing to a vulnerability, that he did some checks and received 
professional-looking documentation, and because he sought advice from a family member 
and an acquaintance who deals in investments first. However, it didnt think it was liable for 
the initial £5,000 payment, as it felt Mr O had been negligent. It tried to recover the money 
from the receiving bank, but the receiving account had been closed some months before.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. Lloyds didnt 
agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr O authorised the payments involved, even if he didnt intend for 
the funds to go to scammers. So, under the Payment Services Regulations and the terms of 
his account, Mr O is liable for the loss in the first instance. But the matter doesnt end there.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Lloyds should 
have fairly and reasonably:
Monitored accounts and payments to counter risks such as fraud and scams;
Had systems in place to look out for particularly unusual transactions or other signs 
its customers were at risk of fraud;
In some circumstances, taken further steps or made further checks before a payment 
went out, or even blocked it, to help protect customers  irrespective of the type of 
payment involved.
Ive reviewed Mr Os account activity in the months leading up to the scam, and I cant see 
any comparable activity. Lloyds pointed out that its not unexpected for customers to spend 
loan money all at once, as loans are generally taken out to be spent on something. And I do 
understand its point. But here, Mr O took out the loan for miscellaneous purposes  i.e. a 
purpose unknown to Lloyds  then forwarded the money to a new payee in a foreign country 
with no confirmation of payee. That should have been cause for concern. And the £5,000 
payment was not just large in and of itself, but was far larger than Mr Os prior spending. It 
was simply out of character for him. 
I think the £5,000 payment stood out as being remarkable, so I think it should have prompted 
Lloyds to intervene.
Had Lloyds intervened and made reasonable enquiries with Mr O, I think it would have most 
likely been able to stop the scam. Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr O would not have been 
honest about why he was spending this money  hed not been given a cover story to tell, 
and as far as he knew this was a legitimate investment. Investment scams are relatively 
prominent, and I think Lloyds wouldve been able to identify what was happening, not least 
given the unrealistic returns promised and the lack of proper documentation. Ive seen no 
reason why Mr O would not have listened to Lloyds  it is a well-known name in banking, 
and he accepted he was not an experienced investor. And when Mr O did speak to Lloyds, 
he was engaged and willing to learn about what he shouldve done.
Ive also thought carefully about Mr Os role in what happened. I understand Lloyds point 
that Mr O was not given proper documentation and that the proposed returns were not 
realistic. But he was given a personal account on a professional-looking website, guides 
setting out the benefits and risks with professional-sounding advice, a newsletter, an invoice, 
and a share certificate. For an inexperienced person, I can see how this would have been 
reasonably convincing. Mr O also looked up the scammers firm online and found articles on 
independent websites  some of which I can see are still up  which portrayed the firm as 
legitimate and successful. The only negative reviews Ive found were from after Mr Os 
£5,000 payment. So I cant see that Mr O had any warnings about the firm. He also sought 
advice from people he trusted  including someone who dealt in investments  and they had 
no significant concerns.
Lloyds said Mr O shouldve been concerned that this came from a cold call. But hed given 
his contact details over first in order to learn more, so this was not a cold call. Lloyds felt 
Mr O should have been suspicious at being asked to pay a subsidiary in another country. 
But the scammers firm was purportedly a foreign multinational company. And it wouldnt 
have made a difference in this case whether Mr O paid the main company or a subsidiary 
given they were part of the same scam.Lloyds already accepted that Mr O was not liable on any negligence basis for the second 
payment, so Im unsure why it has not applied the same logic to the first. As it found itself, 
this was a complex and sophisticated scam, Mr O did take measures to try to verify what he 
was being told, and he was in a vulnerable position. I understand that Mr O was facing a 
significant mental health issue with very poor sleep and was under medication, which 
affected his judgement and decision-making. 
In the circumstances, I can understand why Mr O made the £5,000 payment. I do not think 
he was sufficiently negligent that I would hold him partly or wholly liable for the matter.
Lloyds pointed out that its loans were not supposed to be taken out for investments. But 
while I do appreciate that, thats not a sufficient basis on which to hold Mr O liable for the 
scam or for Lloyds own failure to intervene.
Mr Os representatives asked for further compensation for non-financial losses. However, its 
the scammers who primarily caused Mr Os trouble and upset here, rather than Lloyds, and 
Ive not found that Lloyds did anything which significantly added to the stresses the 
scammers caused. Mr O also asked for his legal fees to be paid, and I understand why. 
However, were a free service which resolves complaints informally in plain English  so 
there was no need to hire legal representatives to use us, that was Mr Os choice to do so. 
So I cant fairly tell Lloyds to refund those fees.
Overall, while I am glad to see that Lloyds refunded the second payment, I dont think it 
acted fairly by declining to refund the first £5,000 payment. So it should settle the complaint 
in the way Ive outlined below. 
Putting things right
Lloyds Bank PLC should:
Remove any interest and fees from the £5,000 loan it granted;
Refund the £5,000 payment, set off against any outstanding debt on the loan;
Pay Mr O 8% simple interest per year on the loan repayments he made, payable 
from the date of each repayment until the date of settlement;
Mark Mr Os loan as satisfied from the date he made the £5,000 international 
payment, and remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Os credit file.
If Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct tax from 
the simple interest, it should tell Mr O how much tax its taken off. It should also give Mr O a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one. Mr O may be able to reclaim the tax from HMRC 
if he doesnt normally pay tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Os complaint, and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 Adam Charles
Ombudsman