DRN-3600988
The complaint
Ms J, who is represented by a third party, says Freemans Plc (Freemans) irresponsibly 
lent to her. She has requested that the interest and late payment charges she paid on her 
accounts be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about two catalogue shopping accounts provided by Freemans to Ms J in 
January 2013  a Kaleidoscope and a Curvissa account, both with an opening credit limit of 
£100. The Curvissa account went on to have a credit limit increase to £300 on 12 June 
2015 and then to £500 on 12 April 2016. 
The balance on the Kaleidoscope account was cleared and it was closed in February 2014.
In October 2016 Freemans reduced the credit limit from £500 down to £250 on the 
Curvissa account. Due to the unpaid arrears the account was passed to debt recovery in 
September 2017.
Ms J says she was already struggling financially when Freemans granted her the accounts 
and that it should have conducted better checks. The accounts were therefore unaffordable 
from the outset.
Freemans says it carried out enough checks when it agreed to give Ms J these accounts 
and also each time it increased her credit limit on the Curvissa account. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Ms Js complaint and thought that Freemans ought to 
have realised that Ms J wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit on her 
account when it offered her the first credit limit on her Curvissa account. 
As Freemans didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Freemans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms J 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the Ms Js income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early 
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Freemans should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the Ms J. These factors include:
the lower a Ms Js income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
When Ms J opened these accounts, Freemans carried told us it was aware that Ms J had 
experienced financial difficulties in the past due to having had historic defaults and also a 
recent missed payment. Having reviewed the checks, and taking into account the low 
opening credit limit of £100 she was given for each account, I dont think theres enough to 
suggest that it would have been unreasonable for Freemans to have approved them on that 
basis. Freemans didnt however ask about Ms Js income, which would have been 
proportionate to help Freemans build a picture of her financial circumstances at that point. 
I now turn to the credit limit increases, which is relevant only for the Curvissa account. Our 
adjudicator noted that Ms J never spent more than £300 on her account. That means that 
theres no financial loss arising from the second credit limit increase and I will therefore 
only look at the first credit limit increase of £300 in June 2015.
Our adjudicator found that, whilst credit checks carried out by Freemans may not have 
suggested Ms J was getting into difficulty with credit she had elsewhere, the way she was 
dealing with her account did suggest she might be struggling financially. The account 
records provided by Freemans clearly show that Ms J was already getting into difficulty at 
the time she was given the first credit limit increase. Whilst her account balance was 
around £7 at the time, she had already missed seven out of a total of 16 repayments and 
also underpaid on two repayments. As a s result, shed also had to pay at least ten sets of 
administration fees. And whilst I can see that Ms J on occasion made overpayments, 
given the amounts involved I think its unlikely that this demonstrates a significant 
improvement in her overall financial situation. 
Taken together, these factors strongly suggest there was a risk that Ms J would become 
unable to continue meeting her monthly payments. So no credit limit increases should 
have been applied to the account. 
I think that had Freemans applied greater scrutiny to the way Ms J was managing her 
account, it likely would have realised there was a significant risk that Ms J would be 
unable to deal with the higher level of credit being made available to her. It follows that I 
dont think it was reasonable for Freemans to increase Ms Js credit limit at this point. 
Ms J has lost out because Freemans should have realised by that point that Ms J was getting into financial difficulty and was likely to experience problems in paying back even 
a modest amount of credit. 
It follows that I agree Freemans should put things right.
Putting things right  what Freemans needs to do
Rework Ms Js account to ensure that from 12 June 2015 onwards interest is 
only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £100, including any buy 
now pay later interest, (being the credit limit in place before that date) to reflect 
the fact that no further credit limit increases should have been provided. All 
late payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and also
Rework Ms Js accounts to ensure that from 12 June 2015 all interest or 
charges be removed, including any buy now pay later interest (being the credit 
limit in place before that date), to reflect the fact that access to any remaining 
credit on the accounts shouldnt have been provided. All late payment and 
over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made Freemans should contact Ms J to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for this account. Once Ms J has repaid the outstanding 
balance, it should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Js credit 
file from 12 June 2015 onwards.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as 
overpayments and returned to Ms J, along with 8% simple interest per year on 
the overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. Freemans should also remove any adverse information from Ms 
Js credit file from June 2015 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Freemans to take off tax from this interest. 
Freemans must give Ms J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Ms Js complaint. Freemans Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman