DRN-2629174
The complaint
In 2018, Ms N complained to National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) that it had mis-
sold her a packaged bank account called an Advantage Gold account. NatWest accepted 
that it had mis-sold the account and paid Ms N some compensation. However, Ms N 
does not think the compensation was sufficient and wants NatWest to pay her a further 
amount.
What happened
Ms N has banked with NatWest for quite a long time. NatWest has sent us information 
from its records, which shows that it sold her an Advantage Gold account in April 2001, 
which she kept until March 2003 and then closed. It then sold her another, separate, 
Advantage Gold account in February 2006. During 2015, NatWest switched Ms N to 
another type of account called a Select Platinum account. (It did this for all customers with 
Advantage Gold accounts as part of a commercial decision it had made about the range 
of accounts it wanted to provide).
I think that NatWests records about Ms Ns account history are probably reliable and I 
have taken them to be accurate. 
Ms N has complained about the sale of both Advantage Gold accounts and about the way 
NatWest switched her to the Select Platinum account. When she complained direct to 
NatWest, it upheld her complaint about the first Advantage Gold account and paid her 
some compensation. She has subsequently complained to us that it did not pay her 
enough. 
During our investigation into this complaint there has also been a dispute about whether 
Ms Ns complaint about the second Advantage Gold account (and subsequent switch to 
the Select Platinum account) fall inside or outside the time limits that determine which 
complaints we can consider. Another ombudsman sent both parties a separate decision 
on this dispute, which said they were both outside the time limits. So, we have not 
investigated them any further. I have not considered them as part of this decision. 
 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Ms Ns complaint about the 
compensation NatWest paid her for the first Advantage Gold account and thought it was 
fair. Ms N disagreed with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review her case, so it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our 
website, and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Ms Ns 
complaint. Ive looked into everything that Ms N and NatWest have told us or sent us 
about the case, and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below.
In this case, there is no dispute that NatWest mis-sold the first Advantage Gold account to 
Ms N. The only point I am considering here is whether NatWest paid Ms N fair compensation 
for this mis-sale.
When we uphold a complaint that a bank mis-sold a packaged account to a consumer, we 
expect the bank to return the consumer to the financial position s/he would have been in if 
the bank had not sold the account to him or her. This usually means that we tell the bank to 
repay the monthly fees and add simple interest to each fee from the date the consumer paid 
the fee until the bank makes the refund. For cases where the sale took place after April 
1993, we set the interest rate at 8% per year. (HMRC usually requires the bank to take 
income tax off this interest).
If a particular consumer incurred extra charges which stemmed directly from the monthly 
packaged account fees, then we would also expect the bank to return these fees in a 
similar way. Conversely, some packaged banks accounts offer banking benefits, such as 
better interest rates on overdrafts, than are available to customers with fee-free accounts; 
and if a consumer gains from these benefits, then we usually allow the bank to deduct the 
gains from the compensation.
I have seen a summary of NatWests calculation and it seems to be in line with our 
approach. I believe it also sent the relevant details to Ms N. I therefore think that it treated 
her fairly in the amount of compensation it paid to her.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Ms Ns s complaint that National 
Westminster Bank Plc should pay a further amount for mis-selling her the first Advantage 
Gold account. I am not going to tell it to give her any more money back
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman