DRN-4267114
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Chetwood Financial Limited trading as BetterBorrow (BetterBorrow) 
have held her liable for a loan she didnt apply for.
What happened
Mrs P explained that she received a phone call from someone (a scammer) who claimed to 
be from her banks fraud department. Ill refer to the bank as R and the scammer as J.
Mrs P said that she was initially suspicious of the call, but J knew personal details about her 
that convinced her he was a genuine employee of R.
J told Mrs P that her account was at risk from fraudulent activity and that he was going to 
help her secure it. 
Over the course of several hours, J persuaded Mrs P to send him copies of various identity 
documents including her driving licence and images of her debit card including the three-digit 
security number. Mrs P was told to download various apps that all related to crypto currency 
trading (although Ms P said she wasnt aware of their purpose at the time). 
Mrs P was also given a secure email address and a password for it to use when opening 
the apps. In the background, J was applying for loans in Mrs Ps name and Mrs P said she 
was unaware of this activity at the time. 
Mrs P was told to move funds between various accounts and did so, making several 
transfers between her accounts. At some point, a loan from Betterborrow for £9,500 was 
approved and paid into Mrs Ps account. Another loan from a different company was also 
paid into a different bank account held by Mrs P that was later repaid.
There were then a number of transactions using her debit card (apart from one bank 
transfer) to various crypto currency accounts set up by Mrs P. Mrs P was required to confirm 
the payments using her banks app on her phone. It then appears that J accessed the crypto 
currency accounts and removed the funds to his own wallet, effectively making them 
disappear.
J told Mrs P that he would call her the next morning to continue securing her account. 
Overnight, Mrs P became concerned about what had happened and called her bank. Mrs P 
was advised to speak with BetterBorrow and contacted them about the loan. Mrs P reported 
the matter to the Police and Action Fraud.
Mrs P was held liable for the loan by BetterBorrow and made a complaint about their 
decision and asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to look into the situation. 
BetterBorrow were asked by our service to investigate the complaint and after looking into 
the circumstances, they couldnt find any evidence of fraud and held Mrs P liable for the 
loan. 
What BetterBorrow said
BetterBorrow were advised by Mrs P that shed been the victim of a scam and hadnt applied 
for a loan. They asked Mrs P for information about the circumstances of the loan and she 
told them in an email, that: 
He manipulated me into applying for not one but two loans one from you and another 
from company called Z. 
This lead to money being transferred through my account into crypto currency accounts. 
This man was on loud speak instructing through every process, he was also instructing 
through WhatsApp.
Mrs P also sent a copy of a message shed received which indicated it was from 
BetterBorrow and titled Crypto Loan.
In later discussions, Mrs P confirmed shed been instructed by J to make the purchases but 
didnt know it was to do with crypto currency at the time.
During one call with BetterBorrow, it became apparent that residual funds from the loan were 
still in Mrs Ps account (funds that werent spent at the time) and BetterBorrow advised Mrs 
P that theyd contact R about the recovery of them.
BetterBorrow concluded that there was no evidence to suggest Mrs P had been the victim of 
a scam and continued to seek the repayment of the loan.
The investigation so far
After BetterBorrow had concluded their own investigation into Mrs Ps complaint, an 
investigator from our service was assigned to look into the circumstances. Evidence was 
requested from both parties.
Mrs P sent in various screenshots of the apps she downloaded and details of her bank 
statements. She hasnt been able to provide any details about J or copies of any messages 
from him.
Mrs P told the investigator what had happened to her and how shed been totally taken in by 
J and thought he was securing her account. Mrs P later denied applying for the loans or 
anything about them at the time.
BetterBorrow provided details of their investigation and their assessment of why they thought 
Mrs P should be held liable.
BetterBorrow later accepted that Mrs P hadnt taken out the loan and shouldnt be bound by 
its terms relating to charges and interest, but, as she was involved in enabling those funds to 
be sent to the crypto wallet, she should repay the full loan amount (£9,500). Because there 
was another complaint linked to the loan amount, an interim outcome was issued (this was 
because there was a possibility that the other complaint could refund some or all of the 
loan).
The other complaint didnt recommend any refund to Mrs P, so a further outcome was issued 
relating to this complaint. The investigator recommended that Mrs P repay the loan to 
BetterBorrow because:
it was likely she had some knowledge of it due to the large payment made into her 
account which looked unusual compared to the funds Mrs P held at the time. 
Mrs P appeared to have spent the residual funds left in her account from the loan.
The investigator also thought there were some inconsistencies in Mrs Ps version of 
events.
Mrs P disagreed with the investigators report and was unhappy that it appeared to say she 
was being less than honest. Mrs P denied any knowledge of the funds from the loan at the 
time and that theyd been used to purchase crypto currency.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As BetterBorrow have accepted that Mrs P wasnt responsible for the loans application, it 
follows that she cant be held liable for the charges or interest associated with it or 
references to it on her credit file. But, the issue for me to decide here is can Mrs P be held 
liable for the repayment of the loan itself?
Ordinarily, if someone is unaware of the loan and hasnt profited from it in anyway, then its 
likely that the loan would be written off. But, if the evidence indicates that the complainant 
(Mrs P) was or should have been aware of it and still involved herself in its use, then my 
decision would be different.
Id like to deal with the comments around inconsistencies in Mrs Ps testimony. I recognise 
that there will often be some difference when recounting a traumatic event, especially if this 
is done over several months, or even sometimes years. In this complaint, Mrs P has given 
different versions surrounding what she knew about the loan, from either applying for it 
under the direction of J to not knowing about it at all. Whilst I dont think that Mrs P 
deliberately misled BetterBorrow, the variations in her story have made it more difficult to 
determine what actually happened.
So, looking at the specific circumstances of this complaint, I have to take a view on what the 
likely version of events was based on a balance of probabilities, especially when the 
evidence is contradictory, as it is here.
Mrs P told our service that she was the victim of a (safe account) scam, and that J was 
protecting her accounts. This type of scam tends to follow a similar path, but not here. Mrs 
Ps circumstances also included the application for a loan(s), the payment of it into her own 
account and the purchase of crypto currency. They were paid into accounts she herself set 
up. Mrs P was also involved in the payments from her account o the crypto merchants.
I accept that scammers dont follow strict rules when stealing money from people, but this 
set of circumstances was different to the usual safe account scam. Mrs P has said that she 
didnt know about crypto currency when she opened these apps, nor was she aware of the 
loan. Looking at the screenshots shes sent, several of them are for different merchants 
selling/trading crypto currency. References on the pages show either prices for crypto 
currency or actual crypto currency purchases, so I found it difficult to accept that Mrs P knew 
nothing about them at all based on the multiple applications she was persuaded to make, by 
opening these various accounts. The purpose of them is fairly obvious, so even though Mrs  
P was no doubt in a stressful situation, these various accounts she opened would likely have 
given a suggestion that she was involved in some form of crypto trading/purchase. This is at 
odds with the story she was given about securing her funds.
Ive also considered the likelihood that Mrs P was unaware of the loan when it was paid into 
her account. At the time, two of Mrs Ps accounts used to make the crypto purchases held 
about £500 in them prior to the loan being paid into one of them. There are some internal 
transfers that Mrs P said was J asking her to move money around, so I can see how some of 
the funds could become confused, but I do have difficulty accepting that Mrs P was unaware 
that her accounts now had £9,500 more in them than when she started. Theres also 
evidence that shows a new contact number for BetterBorrow had been set up on Mrs Ps 
phone. This showed the contact was from BetterBorrow for a Crypto Loan. I think it unlikely 
that Mrs P would ignore this. There doesnt appear to have been any questioning of this by 
Mrs P, which I found unusual. Mrs P was also confirming these payments through her banking app which would have 
shown who the funds were going to (the various accounts shed set up). In order to confirm 
the payments, Mrs P would have been required to log in to the app and confirm the payment, 
so I was surprised that Mrs P didnt notice the large influx of money shed received that was 
much larger than balances she usually held in the account.
Mrs P said J would call her back the next day and complete the process to secure her 
account. At the time, there were still over a thousand pounds of the loan amount left in the 
account, so I would have expected a scammer to move those funds as soon as possible. 
Thats because they wouldnt know when the account holder would suspect something was 
wrong. Allowing them to think about the call overnight (which is what happened here) seems 
an unnecessary risk for the scammer to take when they could easily have made further 
purchases as theyd been doing throughout the evening. 
It seems as though the second loan was also untouched by the scammer, so theyve left 
several thousand pounds unused. I think thats quite unusual for a scammer to go to the 
trouble of arranging loans to not attempt to use them all. 
Overall here, I think it unlikely Mrs P was unaware there was something untoward happening 
and theres evidence to suggest she should have known she had more funds in the account 
than she would normally have held. Its been unfortunate that Mrs P had no evidence to 
suggest the level of control over her, so Ive accepted her testimony here. But I dont think it 
would be fair to expect BetterBorrow to write the loan off. Thats because I think it likely Mrs 
P knew there was a loan and didnt prevent it being used to purchase crypto currency.
I understand that BetterBorrow said they would request the return of the remaining funds left 
in Mrs Ps account. Im not aware if that was ever done, so if it was, then the debt should 
reflect that, if not, then Mrs P has already had use of those funds. BetterBorrow should 
ensure they take Mrs Ps personal circumstances into account when agreeing a suitable 
repayment plan.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman