DRN-3065913
The complaint
Mr S complains that Revolut Ltd restricted access to his account and his funds. Hes also 
unhappy theyve requested unreasonable documents and provided misleading information. 
What happened
On the 6 December 2019 Mr S had a conversation with Revolut via live chat where the 
business asked Mr S to provide further identification documents to verify his account 
because of the UK leaving the European Union. During the conversation Mr S also 
questioned Revolut about whether his funds were protected by the Financial Service 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS). Mr S wasnt happy with Revoluts response so decided to 
withdraw funds from his account in UK currency. However, he kept his money in foreign 
currency in his account.
On the 8 December 2019 Revolut restricted access to Mr Ss account. On the same day 
Mr S contacted Revolut via live chat and asked them why he couldnt access his funds. On 
the 10 December 2019 Mr S managed to temporarily access his account, convert his 
remaining funds to UK Currency and withdraw them. However he remained unhappy that 
Revolut continued to restrict his access.
On the 11 and 17 December 2019 Revolut requested Mr S provide documentation to show 
the source of funds transferred into his Revolut account. Mr S explained that the majority of 
his funds were from his pension, and he provided documentation to show this was the case. 
However, on the 18 December 2019 Revolut asked Mr S to provide further information, 
specifically evidence of the bank transfers from his wifes account in the form of three of 
Mrs Ss payslips and her account statement. 
Mr S refused to provide information from Mrs Ss account because he felt the requests were 
unreasonable. 
Revolut didnt unblock the account and Mr S complained. On reviewing his complaint 
Revolut didnt think theyd acted unfairly. And didnt uphold his complaint 
Mr S wasnt happy with Revoluts response so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into his complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary they 
thought Revolut acted fairly in restricting access to Mr Ss account. 
Mr S didnt accept our investigators conclusion. In response he said:
Revolut should be able to show the exact computer code which triggered the account 
restriction. 
His account is still restricted. And its been over one and a half years since hes been 
able to fully access it. 
The request by Revolut for his wifes tax returns is unreasonable. 
As Mr S didnt accept our investigators outcome its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account restriction
Although I appreciate that Mr S is unhappy that restrictions were placed on his account 
businesses have a legal obligation to protect the security of their accounts and to comply 
with various laws and regulations. Mr S agreed to this term as a customer and its a 
reasonable term. Im satisfied that Revolut were acting in line with their legal and regulatory 
obligations and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account when they 
reviewed Mr Ss account. So I dont think Revolut did anything wrong when it initially blocked 
Mr Ss account and didnt allow him access to his funds.
Mr S has argued that Revolut blocked his access after he challenged them on whether his 
money would be protected by the FSCS. And hes asked for details from Revolut on what 
computer code triggered the account restriction. As our investigator explained it isnt our 
role, as a service, to review a businesss policy or procedures. Instead I need to assess 
whether I think Revolut have acted fairly, when considering the relevant law and industry 
best practice. Ive seen no evidence that Revolut decided to restrict access to Mr Ss 
account because of his decision to question the safety of his funds. Im satisfied that the 
large crediting of funds into Mr Ss account raised legitimate concerns with Revolut, and their 
decision to restrict Mr Ss account was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Request for proof of entitlement
Ive moved on to consider whether Revolut acted fairly in requesting additional 
documentation from Mr S. Initially, Mr S provided the information Revolut requested  
however he refused to provide Mrs Ss bank statement and relevant pay slips. Mr S has 
mentioned that Revolut asked him to supply his wifes tax returns however Ive not seen 
any indication this is the case. I can see that Mr S has strong feelings about the 
reasonableness of this request, and I know this will disappoint him. But Im afraid I cant 
agree that the request from Revolut is unreasonable. Some of the funds Revolut asked Mr S 
to provide entitlement to were received from Mrs Ss account. And I cant say that Mr S 
obtaining documentation from Mrs S to evidence the source of these funds is an 
unreasonable request. It follows, considering this is the reason for the block, that Im 
satisfied the block remains fair. 
Communication from Revolut
Ive seen a copy of the communication Mr S had with Revolut via live chat. Mr S has raised a 
number of concerns about what he was advised by the business  including that his money 
was protected by the FSCS, and believes hes been misled by the business. Having looked 
at the live chat I can see initially Mr S was advised that nothing has changed at which point 
the advisor went on the confirm that if Revolut becomes insolvent Mr Ss funds could be 
claimed from a segregated account.  I agree with Mr S here that he was initially provided 
with incorrect information by Revolut. As Mr S has correctly highlighted once a business isnt 
regulated in the UK, by the Financial Conduct Authority, their funds arent protected by the 
FSCS. However, I also note that soon after the advisor informed Mr S that nothing has 
changed they went on to clarify how Mr Ss funds were protected. Ive thought about the impact of the incorrect information provided by Revolut, and considering Mr S has been able 
to successfully withdraw all of his funds from the business soon after, and it was quickly 
corrected, Im unable to conclude this caused Mr S any significant distress or inconvenience. 
In summary I wont be asking Revolut to do anything further here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman