DRN-3126801
The complaint
Ms M says OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as Likely Loans lent to her 
irresponsibly. She says the loans were very easy to obtain and she soon became dependent 
on them. She thinks that Likely Loans should have seen this and not lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about one loan provided to Ms M by Likely Loans in July 2015. She 
borrowed £1,500. She was due to make 30 repayments of £181.95, meaning she was due to 
repay a total of £2,767.82. 
Ms M had problems repaying this loan relatively early on and it was eventually passed to a 
third-party collection agency. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She issued one assessment that said she 
thought that Likely Loans should have made better checks, but there wasnt enough to say 
the loan was unaffordable. 
After receiving some further information from Ms Ms representative she issued a second 
assessment saying that if Likely Loans had made better checks it still would have lent. 
Ms Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that Ms was 
overdrawn and she had a significant amount of other credit when Likely Loans approved this 
loan. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Likely Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Likely Loans should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint and Ive explained why below.
Given the longer-term nature of this loan, and the size of the repayments, I think that it 
wouldve been proportionate to find out about Mrs Ms normal monthly living costs and 
regular financial commitments - including any existing short-term or high cost credit she may 
have had. And I think that Likely Loans needed to verify, as far as it could, this information. 
Likely Loans did ask Ms M about her circumstances and it did look at her credit file. But I 
dont think it went any further than this. So, I dont think it did as much as it shouldve done. 
But I still need to think about whether Likely Loans wouldve seen anything to suggest it 
shouldnt have given this loan if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Ms M has provided some information about her financial circumstances which includes her 
bank statements. I accept that this isnt necessarily what Likely Loans wouldve seen at the 
time. But it does show what Likely Loans might have seen if it had made better checks. So, I 
think its reasonable to rely on it.
Having carefully looked at everything provided, Ive not seen enough here to be able to 
safely say that Ms M wasnt in a position to be able to make the payments for this loan in a 
sustainable way. Ms Ms average monthly income was more than what looks to be her 
regular essential expenditure and existing regular financial commitments including any 
current or outstanding short term or high cost credit. And whilst she was overdrawn she 
didnt have a significant amount of other debt, or other ongoing financial problems. 
So even if Likely Loans had taken further steps to look into Ms Ms income and expenditure, 
I dont think it wouldve seen anything to suggest that it shouldnt have given this loan to 
Ms M. 
So, I think Likely Loans decision to lend was reasonable and Im not upholding Ms Ms 
complaint about this loan. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman