DRN-3540359
The complaint
F complains that Society of Lloyds (SOL) unfairly declined a claim and voided its policy in 
relation to a commercial insurance policy.
F in this case refers to two separate businesses (Company A and Company B). To keep 
things simple, Ill refer to them collectively within my decision unless specified. And any 
reference to F or SOL includes any respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
F held a combined liability insurance policy with SOL. This covered Company A, 
which owns the property, and Company B, which runs a business from the premises.
Following F making a claim, SOL investigated and raised a concern about an 
individual director of both companies  Mr Z. It said he had previously been a director 
of companies that went into liquidation. SOL said F had failed to disclose this at the 
inception of the policy and had it done so, it would have never provided cover. It 
declined the claim, voided the policy and refunded Fs premiums.
The question that SOL has relied on says:
Have the proposer(s),Partner(s) or Director(s) involved in the business or any 
other business .Ever been subject of any County Court Judgement or the 
Scottish equivalent, declared bankrupt or insolvent or been disqualified from 
being a company director or been involved as owner(s). Directors or partner with 
any company which went into receivership, administration or liquidation?
F complained, arguing Mr Z is not, and never was, actively involved in either 
Company A or Bs businesses  describing him as a sleeping director. It said SOLs 
decision to void the policy had unfairly led to a gap in its cover. And that the 
questions asked at inception were unclear.
Our Investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
F had an obligation to make a fair presentation of risk to SOL when taking out 
insurance. And SOL had asked a clear question about the history of its directors, 
which F had failed to answer correctly. He was satisfied SOL wouldnt have offered 
cover as a result  so this was a qualifying breach under the relevant rules, and its 
decision to refund premiums was fair and in line with this.
F disagreed, saying the questions asked werent clear and had multiple 
interpretations. Specifically, it said the relevant question mentioned directors that 
were involved in the business  which it said Mr Z wasnt. 
The Investigator looked again but didnt change his mind. He reiterated he felt the 
questions asked were not ambiguous and clearly material to SOLs decision to 
provide cover  taking into account the proposal form and statement of fact. He said 
Mr Z was listed as an Active Director on Companies House for the companies. And 
he felt a reasonable interpretation of the relevant question would include sleeping 
directors as ultimately he would have still been involved in the business. And he 
questioned Mr Zs role in the firm as a sleeping director as he had no evidence to 
show this was the case.
F disagreed further, reiterating their concerns about the proposal question, saying the 
form created a category of person who was a director who is not involved in the 
business  of which Mr Z was. It also said this Service or SOL was unable to 
conclude the extent of Mr Zs involvement in the business as neither business had 
sought this information.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
In line with the Insurance Act 2015, commercial policyholders have a duty to make a 
fair presentation of risk to their insurer when taking out a policy. This means they 
have to disclose:
oeverything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of 
an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or
oenough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further 
enquiries about potentially material circumstances.
In the circumstances of this case, this means I have to consider whether F gave a fair 
presentation to the insurer of everything they knew  or ought to have known  about 
the risks they want to insure.
To help me establish this, Ive considered the questions asked by SOL within the 
proposal form. I think its question (quoted above) about the Director(s) involved in 
the business makes it clear SOL wants to know about details of its directors. 
F seeks to make a distinction between this question which refers to directors 
involved in the business and another which refers to the Business or any Director 
or Partner. It says this suggests there are two distinct types of director for the 
purposes of the policy  with either active or passive involvement in a company.
Ive thought about these questions carefully, and Im not persuaded the use of 
passive and active terminology F suggests exists is reflected within the policy. And I 
think a reasonable interpretation of involved in the business could extend to a 
director not involved in the day-to-day running of a company. So, I dont agree this is 
ambiguous as F suggests. And in the circumstances, I think F shouldve known, or 
ought to have known, this would influence SOLs decision to insure it.
Our Investigator questioned what Mr Zs sleeping director role meant. In response F 
has told this Service that it would not be possible for this Service to determine Mr Zs 
involvement in either business as this Service and SOL has never expressed any 
interest in establishing this. However, it strikes me that it was our Investigators 
specific question about Mr Zs involvement which prompted this response. So, I have 
little beyond Fs assurances that Mr Z was passive within the companies as it says.
This means even if I were persuaded by Fs argument that the wording of SOLs 
proposal form was unclear and it didnt know, or ought to have known, this 
information would influence SOLs decision to insure it  which Im not  I still wouldnt be satisfied F has demonstrated that Mr Z couldnt be considered as not 
being involved in the business.
Taking into account all of the evidence provided, Im satisfied F failed to provide a fair 
presentation of risk to SOL.
Where a fair presentation of risk is not provided, SOL will only have a remedy against 
the breach if it would have either not offered the policy or would have done so on 
different terms had F had provided the correct information. If this is the case, this will 
be a qualifying breach.
Ive reviewed the relevant underwriting guidance from SOL  and Im satisfied it 
wouldnt have offered insurance had it known of Mr Zs involvement in the business.
The relevant remedies under the Insurance Act 2015 have been detailed between 
parties. And taking into account the above, Im satisfied SOLs action to void the 
policy, refund premiums and decline the claim were reasonable and in line with the 
relevant rules. So, Im not directing SOL to do anything further.
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman