DRN-3024565
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy with the way Loans 2 Go Limited treated her when she was suffering from
financial difficulties and unable to make her loan repayments.
What happened
In July 2019 Miss P applied for, and was given a loan for £750, which was repayable over a
period of 18 months. The repayments were around £170 a month, and in total Miss P agreed
to pay back just over £3,000 once interest was added.
She was unable to make any of the agreed loan repayments and as a result a default was
registered on her credit file. Miss P says she contacted Loans 2 Go to explain she was in
financial difficulty.
She says:
She didnt realise shed have to pay back over £3,000 for a £750 loan.
Loans 2 Go didnt support her or treat her sympathetically.
Shed been through her income and expenditure with Loans 2 Go over the phone 
and never received a form to complete in the post.
She thought shed agreed a payment plan but when she called to find out when the 
first payment would be taken, she was told no plan had been set up.
If Loans 2 Go had helped her when she told it about her situation, it wouldnt have 
been necessary to record a default on her credit file.
Loans 2 Go says it has shown considerable forbearance and has done its best to engage
with Miss P. But only one payment (for £20) was received after the loan was arranged and it
is obliged to provide credit reference agencies with accurate information. So it is unable to
remove the default record from Miss Ps credit file.
I recently issued a provisional decision, setting out why I didnt think Miss Ps complaint 
should be upheld. I have reproduced, below, my provisional findings.
Miss P applied for her loan online. While I dont know what the application process looked
like, I do know that Miss P had to electronically sign the loan agreement. I think its unlikely
she would have done this without having some idea of what she was agreeing to. The loan
agreement sets out what the monthly repayment was, as well as the total amount payable.
So I think Loans 2 Go made it clear that shed have to pay back over £3,000 over the term of
the loan.
A lender should treat a borrower in financial difficulties fairly. Id expect a lender to listen to a
borrower, get an understanding of their individual circumstances and discuss what help is
appropriate. This might involve the lender asking the borrower about their income and
expenditure. And Id expect the borrower to co-operate with the lender and provide any
reasonable information theyre asked for.
Miss Ps first repayment was due on 31 July 2019 but this payment wasnt made. According
to Loans 2 Gos records, a number of text messages and letters were sent to Miss P about
this, but it wasnt until 20 September 2019 that she got in touch to let it know she was in
financial difficulties and wasnt able to make the agreed repayments.
Ive listened to the conversation Miss P had with Loans 2 Go in September 2019. During this
its clear Miss P wants to set up a payment plan, but Loans 2 Go tells her shell need to
complete an income and expenditure form and return it, with copies of her recent bank
statements. Miss P requested a form and from Loans 2 Gos records, it looks like this was
sent to her the next day.
Theres no record of Miss P returning the form. She says she didnt receive it but it looks like
it was sent to her address. From Loans 2 Gos records, Miss P did call again a few days later
to say she hadnt received it, and another form appears to have been sent out. And while
she says Loans 2 Go should have chased her for it, it would have been clear from the letters
and texts Miss P got after this point, that there was still an issue and no payment plan had
been agreed. I think its likely this communication would have reminded Miss P that
something needed to be done. And if she still hadnt received the form to complete, she
could have contacted Loans 2 Go again.
Miss P didnt contact Loans 2 Go again until January 2020. Again, Ive listened to the
conversation Miss P had with Loans 2 Go at this time. Miss P says shes calling because
shes not sure if shes set up a payment plan  Loans 2 Go confirms she hasnt.
After a discussion about the loan and how much Miss P owes Loans 2 Go, she agrees to
make a payment of £20. Loans 2 Go makes it clear that this is a one-off payment and that
Miss P will need to complete and return an income and expenditure form, together with
recent statements, before any payment plan can be agreed. There is no discussion about
Miss Ps income and expenditure in this call, and Loans 2 Gos records show the income
and expenditure form was sent to Miss P the next day.
While I appreciate Miss P remembers things differently, from the evidence available to me, I
cant see Loans 2 Go ever agreed a payment plan with her. I know Miss P thinks they should
have been able to go through her income and expenditure over the phone, rather than
needing to send her a form. But I dont think this was unreasonable  after all she would
have needed to send evidence of her income and expenditure, in the form of recent
statements, before any payment plan was agreed anyway.
Im satisfied Loans 2 Go has treated Miss P fairly. It was prepared to help Miss P but needed
reasonable information to be able to do this. Its not reasonable to expect Loans 2 Go to
agree a payment plan without any information about how much Miss P could afford to pay.
Its fair for a lender to record an account in default when it becomes clear the borrower isnt
able to make their contractual payments. Id usually expect this to be when the borrower is at
least three months behind with their payments, and before theyre more than six months
behind.
I dont think Loans 2 Go did anything wrong by registering the default  its clear Miss P
wasnt able to make her contractual payments. Arguably, Loans 2 Go registered Miss Ps
loan account in default a bit sooner than Id expect  the date of default showing on Miss Ps
credit file is 18 September 2019, when shed missed two payments. But there is no benefit to
Miss P in me telling Loans 2 Go to change this to a later date, as it will just take longer for it
to come off her credit file.
While I wouldnt expect a default to be registered if the borrower had agreed a payment plan
with the lender, Miss P never agreed a payment plan with Loans 2 Go. And as Ive alreadyexplained, I dont think this was because of anything Loans 2 Go did wrong  it never
received the information it needed from Miss P to work out what an affordable payment
amount would be.
Miss Ps debt has now been sold to a third party. And Id encourage Miss P to work with the
third party to agree a satisfactory arrangement to pay, if she hasnt already done so.
Loans 2 Go accepted my provisional findings, but Miss P did not. She said, in summary that:
Because of her learning differences, she didnt understand how much she would 
have to pay back in total. More should have been done to check she understood the 
loan she was taking out.
When she called and found out a payment plan hadnt been set up, she begged and 
cried on the phone to them and Loans 2 Go did nothing to help. At that point the loan 
hadnt been sold and wasnt on her credit file.
In July 2021 Loans 2 Go said they were happy to resolve this issue but now my 
decision has stopped her getting this help.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, Miss P applied for the loan online, in her own time. 
I appreciate her learning differences might make it harder for her to read and understand the 
information she was given about the loan  including how much shed have to pay back in 
total. But if she didnt understand the information Loans 2 Go gave her, she had the 
opportunity to get clarification, before she signed the loan agreement.
It was in February 2020 that Miss P called Loans 2 Go and was told no payment plan had 
been set up in January 2020. I havent listened to this call, but I accept Miss P was 
distressed and asked for help, as shes said. From Loans 2 Gos records, I can see Miss P 
asked to speak to a manager at this time. And it looks like a manager tried to call her back a 
few days later, but was unable to speak to Miss P. A text message appears to have been 
sent that day, asking Miss P to call back. Two weeks later, another letter was sent about the 
outstanding balance, and a few weeks after that, the debt was sold to a third party (in March 
2020). 
Theres no record of Miss P contacting Loans 2 Go again during this time. In fact, according 
to Loans 2 Gos records, the next contact of any note Miss P had with it, wasnt until 
December 2020 when she raised the complaint Im considering here.
I do appreciate Miss P was, and still is, in a difficult and upsetting situation. And I would 
expect Loans 2 Go to be sympathetic to that. That doesnt mean, however, Id expect it to 
agree to whatever Miss P asked for. As I said before, its reasonable for Loans 2 Go to want 
to understand her financial position, before agreeing to any payment plan or other 
arrangement. For Loans 2 Go to get that understanding, it needed Miss Ps co-operation. 
There were significant periods of time when Miss P wasnt engaging with Loans 2 Go or the 
situation. And at no point before the debt was sold, did she provide the information shed 
been asked for about her income and expenditure. So while I am sympathetic to Miss Ps 
situation, I dont think Loans 2 Go should have done anything more in the circumstances. 
Miss P has referred to an email she was sent by Loans 2 Go in July 2021 that talked about a 
decision from this service. Loans 2 Go has confirmed it sent this email by mistake and its shown me an email it sent Miss P less than 30 minutes after the one shes referred to that 
confirms this and apologises. So Im afraid there never was any offer from Loans 2 Go to 
help in the way Miss P would like. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, Miss Ps debt has now been sold to a third party. 
And Id encourage her to work with the third party to agree a satisfactory arrangement to 
pay, if she hasnt already done so.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman