DRN-3451547
The complaint
Mr H, represented by his financial adviser, complains that St Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Plc (SJP) made errors which meant the Trust hed set up was void. He also 
complains that he never received a suitability letter for advice SJP gave in 2017.
What happened
Mr H received advice from SJP in 2017. This decision doesnt deal with the suitability of this 
advice but rather the errors Mr H identified. Mr H was advised to invest into a St James 
Place Loan Plan utilising a Trust. This was recommended for inheritance tax purposes. In 
2020, Mr Hs current adviser asked for a copy of the recommendation and Trust. He found 
that a trustees name and a beneficiarys name were spelled incorrectly. Mr H complained as 
he was told this made the Trust null and void.
Mr H also said hed never received a suitability letter for this advice, and he complained 
about that.
SJP apologised for the spelling errors when setting up Mr Hs Trust. It said the error was 
possible to rectify without any issues to the Trust and set out how Mr H could go about this. 
It offered Mr H £125 compensation (offered as a total of £250 between two complainants) for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by the error. SJP noted the complaint about the 
suitability letter but said that it was addressed correctly and its adviser recalls discussing it 
with Mr H so it didnt think it had made an error here.
Our investigator felt SJPs offer was fair. He explained that the offer of compensation 
recognises the impact of the spelling errors, but he felt SJP had offered a clear way that the 
Trust could be corrected. The investigator also felt that it was likely the suitability letter was 
sent to Mr H at the time.
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. He said that the errors 
occurred because he was asked to sign a blank form which SJP completed later. He said 
that if hed not discovered this then it couldve impacted the Trust had he passed away. He 
explained that hed encashed his plan as he lost trust in SJP and asked for a refund of the 
early settlement fee. Mr H also said that SJP hasnt provided proof of postage of the 
suitability form so theres no evidence to say it was sent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Spelling errors
Its not disputed that SJP made spelling mistakes when setting up Mr Hs Trust. Specifically, 
a trustees and beneficiarys names were spelled incorrectly. SJP offered £125 
compensation for this error and I think that offer is fair. Ill explain why.
Mr H believed the Trust to be null and void, but I can see SJP told his representative how the 
Trust could be amended to ensure the names were spelled correctly. And, whilst I 
understand it is inconvenient to ask trustees and beneficiaries to agree amendments, I can 
see that it could be done by scanning in documents  allowing for this to be done regardless 
of where the beneficiaries and trustees are located. Im satisfied that SJP has done enough 
to tell Mr H how the rectify the issue and has compensated for the inconvenience caused.
I do understand that it wouldve been a shock to find out that the names were spelled 
incorrectly. And Mr H has said it couldve been very problematic if hed passed away without 
finding out the mistake. But its important to point out that this hasnt happened, and I 
wouldnt be asking SJP to pay compensation for something that could have happened. Im 
satisfied that the £125 compensation is fair and reasonable for the impact this error had on 
Mr H.
Mr H said he signed a blank Trust form and this was completed by SJP afterwards. SJP 
disputes this. I dont think its relevant here as SJP accepts it is responsible for the error and 
the compensation it has offered is fair and reasonable.
Suitability letter
Mr H has also complained that he wasnt given a suitability letter for the advice. He says that 
SJP hasnt been able to show it posted the letter and so believes that this wasnt done. I 
dont think its surprising that SJP doesnt have proof of postage  its not something Id 
expect it to have as standard. But I can see that the letter was addressed correctly, and 
referred to the dates SJP gave the advice to Mr H. Sending a suitability letter is common 
practice and Ive not seen enough to say that its more likely this wasnt sent to Mr H. I cant 
hold SJP responsible if this letter was lost in transit or wasnt opened by Mr H. So, I dont 
think SJP has done anything wrong in this regard. I think its likely the suitability letter was 
sent when it was produced.
I understand that Mr H would now like his early settlement fee refunded, but as I think SJP 
has offered enough to compensate for the spelling errors, I wont be asking it to do anything 
more than this.
My final decision
The offer St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc made Mr H is fair and reasonable. It 
must now pay Mr H this offer of £125 compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman