DRN-4338406
The complaint
Miss J complains about Starling Bank Limited not providing her with a refund for a cancelled 
transaction.
What happened
On 26 April 2023, Miss J tried twice to make a purchase with Retailer A for £85 using her 
Starling account. 
Although her Retailer A order didnt go through, Miss Js Starling banking APP showed she 
was to be charged twice but only refunded once. So, Miss J complained to Starling about the 
missing £85. 
Starling said there were two £85 transactions for Retailer A on 26 April 2023, however these 
were never debited from her account. Starling added that this can be seen on her statement. 
And the two payments were successfully reversed after the 31-day pending process, one on 
the 18 May 2023 and the other on 25 May 2023.
Miss J doesnt believe this is the case and thinks her balance is £85 less than it should be. 
She complained to our service. However, our investigator was satisfied that Starling hadnt 
made a mistake.
As Miss J remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.  
I first checked all the statements on file. 
As Miss J said:
The two lots of £85 wont show on those statements as they were pending payments, they 
will only show once fully claimed by the merchant
I looked at the April 2023 statement and those that proceeded it. However, my checks 
confirmed that no £85 transactions for Retailer A were shown as debits on Miss Js account. 
Miss Js belief, that Starling have made an error and havent re-credited her with £85, is 
based on her Starling banking APP. Miss J provided some APP screenshots highlighting her 
balance not having increased by £85. 
So, I considered Starlings APP and whether Starling and our investigator were right to rely 
on and give greater weight to Starlings statements which show that no £85 transactions left 
Miss Js account. From reviewing the file, Im satisfied they were, as any funds that are paid 
from a Starling account will be shown on the statements whereas the APP shows live 
information and pending transactions which can impact available balance but can be 
reversed in line with banking procedure.
Regarding the APP balance Miss J also said:
There is some sort of anomaly when my mobile app doesnt match up to the statements
I should point out that our service isnt the financial regulator, and we cant interrogate 
business systems or evaluate the efficiency of banking APPs, including pending transaction 
balance updates. 
Although Im satisfied its reasonable for Starling to rely on the information shown on their 
statements, due to Miss Js comments and screenshots, I looked at the analysis carried out 
by our investigator which he explained in his second view. Having done so, whilst 
recognising Miss Js point, Im also not persuaded there is a mismatch between Starlings 
statement and APP balances. 
So, having considered all the above Im not persuaded that Starling have made an error here 
and Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman