DRN-3130297
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) lent him a loan he couldnt afford.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again
here.
Bamboo lent Mr M £8000 on 12 February 2018, this is not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision about this loan. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator concluded Bamboo did not make a fair lending decision. I agree with the 
investigators findings for these reasons:
oBamboo says it carried out proportionate checks before agreeing to lend to Mr M. It 
says it asked him about his income and accommodation costs. It says it carried out 
an online verification check of Mr Ms income. In addition, it carried out a credit 
check. It also used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to estimate his living 
costs. It used the information it gathered to assess the affordability of the loan for Mr 
M.
oThe loan was due to be repaid over 36 monthly instalments of around £374 and Mr M 
says he asked for the loan for debt consolidation. When I look at Bamboo 
calculations, I can see that, on the surface of it, it had worked out that Mr M would 
have enough disposable income to afford the loan repayments. But like the 
investigator, on balance I dont think Bamboo made a fair lending decision with what 
it had in front of it.
oI say this because when I look through the credit search results, I can see that Mr M 
was already committed to quite a high proportion of credit repayment in relation to 
the income figure Bamboo was using in its assessment. This being the figure it had 
verified using an online verification tool.
oBamboo would have been aware that Mr M had taken over £25,000 in unsecured 
credit through loans and credit cards at the time he applied for a loan with it. This 
represented more than Mr M would have earnt in a year. Bamboo had calculated that 
Mr M would need to pay a monthly amount of £654.54 in servicing this debt after he 
had used the capital of this loan to repay some of it. This represented a large and 
significant part of his monthly income. 
oMr M was paying such a significant proportion of his monthly income on credit 
repayments. I think Bamboo ought to have realised it was unlikely that he would be 
able to sustainably repay his loan over the three-year term in addition to this. And, in 
these circumstances, Bamboo should reasonably have concluded that it was not fair 
to lend to Mr M.
oSo, it follows that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. Bamboo now needs to put things right.
  
Putting things right
While I think Bamboo shouldnt have lent to Mr M, I think it will be fair for him to repay the 
capital of £8000 which he borrowed. So, to put things right, Bamboo should:
add up all the payments made by Mr M, if it exceeds the capital amount of £8000, 
then the overpayments plus 8% simple interest* should be paid to Mr M, remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mr M credit file as a result of this loan.
If there is a balance outstanding, Bamboo should treat Mr M fairly and look to 
arrange a payment plan that is affordable for him. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to above. 
Bamboo must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and direct Bamboo Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman