DRN-1179276
 
Complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr D was sold a PPI policy in connection with a credit card in 1995.
The policy cost 71p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance and would have paid 10% 
of the monthly outstanding balance for 12 months if Mr D was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. Mr D didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr D was eligible for the policy and Im satisfied Mr D was 
eligible for the policy based on his age and employment at the time of the sale.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr D that the PPI was optional and needed his consent before 
it could be applied to the account. Mr D says he had no idea he had been sold PPI.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale and unfortunately, though 
understandably (given the length of time since the sale), Lloyds no longer have a copy of the 
actual PPI application form from the time of the sale. However, they have provided a sample 
of the type of form Mr D would have completed. This sample form also accords with my 
experience of how PPI was presented in other sales around this time and so I have relied on 
this to help me decide what is more likely to have happened during the sale.
This form shows that Mr D would have been presented with an option as to whether or not to 
take PPI. Specifically he would have had to tick a box to select PPI. If the box to take PPI 
hadnt been selected, then it doesnt appear as though PPI would have been applied to the 
account.
So while I appreciate what Mr D has said, I think its more likely that PPI was presented as 
optional and that it was only applied to the account because Mr D chose to take it out.I do think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr D. This means they had to check the PPI was 
suitable for Mr D. And based on the information I have, I think the PPI was suitable for Mr D. 
I say this because:
 
Mr D would only have received statutory sick pay from his employer if he was off 
work sick. The PPI would have paid out in addition to this and for a longer period of 
time. It would also have paid out in addition to any redundancy pay Mr D may have 
been entitled to. 
 
Mr D didnt appear to have been affected by the main restrictions and exclusions in 
the policy such that it wouldve been difficult for him to make a successful claim 
under the policy. For example, those relating to certain medical conditions and 
working arrangements. 
 
I havent seen anything which suggests the PPI was unaffordable to Mr D. 
 
Mr D couldve cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially.
 
As well as checking the PPI was suitable for Mr D, Lloyds also had to give Mr D clear 
enough information so that he could decide for himself if the PPI was right for him. Its 
possible the information Lloyds gave Mr D wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But this in 
itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better 
information would have put Mr D off taking the PPI out.
And I dont think better information wouldve put Mr D off taking the PPI out. I say this for the 
same reasons I think the PPI was suitable for him.
So I dont think Lloyds mis-sold Mr D this PPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman