DRN-3744519
The complaint
Mr W complains that Domestic and General Insurance Plc mishandled his claim on a home
emergency insurance policy.
Where I refer to D&G, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include
engineers and others insofar as I hold D&G responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
Mr W had a gas central heating boiler that had been installed in about 2006. In January
2021, an installer replaced its gas valve.
On about 25 October 2021, Mr W bought a D&G boiler insurance policy. Any claim under the
policy was subject to an excess of £99.00. The policy provided that Mr W couldnt make any
claim in the first 30 days, that is until about 23 November 2021.
On 26 November 2021, Mr W called D&G for help under the policy. He said his boiler wasnt
providing central heating or hot water. D&G sent an engineer. On about 29 November 2021,
Mr W paid the £99.00 excess.
On 6 December 2021, Mr W complained to D&G that the engineer was late. That evening,
the engineer replaced the fan and left the boiler working. But the boiler failed again within a
couple of hours.
On 8 December 2021, the engineer led Mr W to believe that he would order a gas valve and
return to fit that.
But when Mr W rang D&G on 13 December 2021, it said that the policy didnt cover such a
replacement because the gas valve installed in January 2021 was defective or incorrectly
installed. Mr W complained to D&G about communication and refusal to compete the repair.
By a final response dated 13 December 2021, D&G said the policy didnt cover the repair. It
said it would send Mr W a cheque for £140.00 as a goodwill gesture.
Mr W sent further emails to D&G on 13 and 14 December 2021. By an email dated 15
December 2021, D&G said it wouldnt reply to any further emails on the complaint.
Mr W brought his complaint to us on 16 December 2021.
On about 23 December 2021, Mr W added an update to us as follows:
He had engaged a new contractor who had diagnosed a fault in the gas supply to the 
property. At his request, the gas network company had attended and confirmed that 
the supply pressure was extremely erratic through the failure of a pressure regulating 
device. The company replaced the gas meter and the regulator and prohibited use of 
the boiler until safety checks were performed.
The new contractor got his system working perfectly - without the need to replace 
any parts.
D&G shouldve done what the new contractor did.
The new contractor charged £120.00 including VAT.
D&G had sent him a cheque for £140.00 without explanation. He didnt cash it.
In early January 2022, Mr W filled in a complaint form setting out his updated complaint. On
24 January 2022, we sent D&G that complaint form.
D&G made submissions to us about the updated complaint.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that
D&G had correctly applied the policy terms when they declined Mr Ws claim, and the
compensation paid for the delay in sending out an engineer was fair.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr W  
and to D&G on 12 September 2022. I summarise my findings:
The policy didnt cover any problem with the supply of gas. 
By the shortcomings in its communication  D&G caused Mr W extra distress
and inconvenience at an already difficult time for him. It also caused him distress and
inconvenience in being without central heating and hot water for five days longer than 
he couldve been. When he found out about the gas supply issue, Mr W was troubled 
by the thought of what mightve happened.
D&G tried to put things right by a goodwill gesture of £140.00. But that wasnt enough 
in my view. I was minded to find that  instead of the cheque (which Mr W said he 
hadnt cashed)  D&G should pay Mr W £250.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Subject to any further information from Mr W or from D&G, my provisional decision was that I 
upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct Domestic and General Insurance Plc to pay 
Mr W £250.00 for distress and inconvenience.
D&G hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
Mr W disagreed with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
D&Gs engineer changed his diagnosis each time he visited.
There was nothing wrong with the gas valve. They cannot withdraw from the repair 
for what are clearly spurious reasons. D&G were in breach of contract.
The engineer shouldve checked the gas supply pressure. D&G never detected the 
fault with the gas supply. D&G sent the £140.00 goodwill payment because of the delay in the engineer 
attending. 
As a direct result of D&G's lack of professionalism, he was without either HW or CH 
from 29 November to 21 December 2021.
He has sent us a copy of his engineers invoice dated 22 December 2021 for £120.00 
including VAT.
D&G was dismissive of his concerns.
He has now cashed the cheque for £140.00. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute
resolution rules. The effect of one of those rules is that a consumer must first make a
complaint to the regulated firm and wait up to eight weeks for a final response before we can
investigate that complaint.
Where we uphold a complaint about an unfair act or omission, we look at its impact on the
complainant including distress and inconvenience as well as financial loss. We assess
compensation by reference to the actual impact (including distress at the thought of what
mightve happened). We dont assess compensation at a level intended to deter or punish
unfair acts or omissions, even if they are potentially unsafe.
Ive taken into account the relevant law, policy terms, regulations and good practice. Above 
all, I have to decide whats fair and reasonable.
D&Gs policy terms referred to the boiler as the product. They contained exclusions as
follows:
" Section 5: Exclusions and standard terms
General exclusions
We shall not be liable for:

any breakdown cost already covered by any manufacturers, suppliers or 
repairers guarantee or warranty on the product;
replacement or recall of the product (or any part) by a supplier or the 
manufacturer.

any problem with the supply of electricity, gas or water;"
Mr W paid the excess of £99.00. But he received a replacement fan. And one of his emails
indicated that he was going to claim reimbursement of the £99.00 from a previous insurer or
contractor. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct D&G to refund him that amount.
I accept that D&G didnt communicate with Mr W as clearly as it should have. That includedits communication of the time when the engineer was expected on 6 December 2021.
I hold D&G responsible for causing delay from 8 December 2021 to 13 December 2021. I 
accept Mr Ws statement that D&G hadnt told him that the repair had been cancelled until
he rang to chase progress on 13 December 2021. I consider that this delayed Mr W 
engaging the new contractor. In the meantime he still had no central heating or hot water. 
D&G took the stance that  after replacement of the gas valve in January 2021 - the policy 
didnt cover a further replacement of the gas valve later that year.
However, I find that the gas valve wasnt a problem. And I find that the gas valve wasnt a 
fair reason for D&G not to assist Mr W further.
Mr W complained to D&G about communication and refusal to compete the repair. D&Gs 
final response  and its payment of £140.00 - was in response to that complaint.
After its final response, D&G declined to discuss Mr Ws complaint with him any further. I
understand that this was frustrating for him. But I cant say that D&G did anything wrong by
standing by its final response in mid-December 2021.
The shortcomings in its communication continued through its final response and subsequent 
emails.
Later, Mr W found out about the gas supply issue and his complaint changed. But D&G saw
his complaint form and had an opportunity to respond. So on balance, I consider that I can
deal with the complaint including the update.
Mr W submits that D&G shouldve checked the gas supply and recognised a problem with it 
in late November 2021  as his engineer did in late December 2021. In support of that, Mr W 
has referred to information from the boiler manufacturer. 
But Mr W has said that the fault was intermittent. And in my view, neither his engineer nor 
the manufacturer has provided enough expert opinion evidence to show that  faced with the 
fault in late November and early December 2021  D&G fell below a reasonable standard of 
work.
From the invoice, I accept that the new contractor charged £120.00 including VAT. But the 
problem with the central heating and hot water system  and the contractors invoice  arose 
from a problem with the supply of gas. And the policy didnt cover any problem with the 
supply of gas. 
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to hold D&G responsible for fixing the problem with the 
system  or to direct D&G to refund the £120.00.
I find it fair and reasonable to direct D&G to compensate Mr W for the five days of delay, 
rather than the whole period of about four weeks for which he was without central heating or 
hot water.
I accept that  by the shortcomings in its communication  D&G caused Mr W extra distress
and inconvenience at an already difficult time for him. It also caused him distress and
inconvenience in being without central heating and hot water for five days longer than he
couldve been. When he found out about the gas supply issue, Mr W was troubled by the
thought of what mightve happened.Putting things right
D&G tried to put things right by a goodwill gesture of £140.00. But that isnt enough in my
view. I conclude that  in addition to the cheque for £140.00 (which Mr W says he has now 
cashed)  D&G should pay Mr W a further £110.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I
direct Domestic and General Insurance Plc to pay Mr W  in addition to the cheque for 
£140.00 a further £110.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman