DRN-4198449
The complaint
Mr D complains about how his insurer, UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchill (Churchill), 
valued his vehicle under his motor insurance policy following its theft. 
Any reference to Churchill in this decision includes their agents. 
What happened
In February 2023 Mr Ds vehicle was stolen during the night. He contacted Churchill to tell 
them about the theft and lodge a claim. As the vehicle wasnt recovered, Churchill treated 
the claim as a total loss. Churchills engineer valued the vehicle at a market value of £2,529. 
Churchill said their engineer hadnt been able to contact Mr D to discuss the valuation 
(though Mr D disputed the engineer had tried to contact him). Churchill then paid the sum 
directly into Mr Ds bank account (the valuation of £2,529 less the policy excess of £350, 
leaving a net settlement of £2,179). 
Mr D was unhappy at not being able to discuss the valuation with the engineer. He also 
thought the valuation was less than half what he considered to be the value of the vehicle, 
given its condition, extras fitted and other features and work hed done. He was also 
unhappy at the time taken by Churchill to respond to emails. So, he complained to Churchill.
Churchill partly upheld the complaint. On the valuation of his vehicle, Churchill referred to it 
being based on the make, model and individual specification, cross referenced to recognised 
industry valuation guides. For Mr Ds vehicle, this gave [retail] valuations of: £2,350; £1,725; 
and £2,708 respectively from three guides. Churchill discounted the lowest valuation as an 
outlier, so averaged the two higher valuations to get to their settlement figure of £2,529 (then 
deducted the policy excess of £350). Churchill also said the guides reflected nationwide 
research and likely sales figures, updated to reflect trends in the market. So, the figures 
were more reliable than any advertised price (for similar vehicles). As Mr D disagreed with 
the valuation, a second engineer reviewed the claim, concluding a higher valuation wasnt 
justified. Churchill also referred to the policy definition of market valuation, being the cost of 
replacing a vehicle with another of the same make and model, of similar age and condition at 
the time of the loss. So, Churchill confirmed they wouldnt change the settlement figure 
theyd made.
But Churchill did uphold the aspect of the complaint about delays in responding to emails 
sent by Mr D, for which they apologised and issued £100 compensation.
Mr D then complained to this service. He disputed the valuation of his vehicle by Churchill, 
being much lower than what he considered to be its value. He was also unhappy at having 
found it difficult to contact Churchill and challenge the settlement theyd paid. He wanted 
Churchill to reassess the claim as he considered the value of his vehicle to be much higher 
than the settlement figure.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Churchill didnt need to take any 
further action. The investigator obtained separate valuations for Mr Ds vehicle, which 
indicated Churchills valuation fell within the range obtained by the investigator. As such, 
Churchill had followed a similar approach to that used by this service in motor valuation 
cases. The investigator also considered the compensation offered by Churchill for issues in 
their communication with (and responses to) Mr D was reasonable.
Mr D disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said his vehicle was in pristine condition and had provided evidence of similar 
vehicles being advertised for sale at more than double Churchills valuation.  He also 
referred to extras fitted to the vehicle, including an upgraded stereo (£600); CD autochanger 
(£120); electrical equipment (£229) and tools in the vehicle at the time of the theft (£300) 
which he thought should be covered (separately) under the policy. He also referred to a 
media report about Churchill undervaluing vehicles in recent years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Churchill has acted fairly towards Mr D.
The main issue in Mr Ds complaint is Churchills valuation of his vehicle as a total loss, 
which they used to determine the settlement figure for the claim. Mr D says the valuation is 
too low and doesnt reflect the condition of his vehicle, the extras fitted and other work he 
carried out on the vehicle. He thinks the valuation used by Churchill is half what he thinks is 
the value of his vehicle. Churchill say theyve based the settlement of recognised industry 
valuation guides for the make, model and specification of the vehicle. 
A second issue is how Churchill communicated with Mr D during the claim process, in 
particular, difficulty Mr D says he had contacting Churchill. Churchill acknowledge there were 
delays in responding to Mr D and awarded £100 in compensation.
On the issue of the valuation of Mr Ds vehicle, Ive considered the information and evidence 
available. Churchill say their market valuation (which is what the policy provides for when a 
vehicle is treated as a total loss, including where a vehicle is stolen but not recovered) is fair 
and reasonable, citing industry valuation guide figures to support their valuation of £2,529 
(before deduction of the policy excess) based on figures of £2,708 and £2,350 from two 
guides (they discounted a third figure of £1,725 as an outlier). Mr D has provided evidence 
and information about the condition of his vehicle, the work carried out on it and the extras 
fitted to the vehicle (such as an upgraded stereo system). Hes also provided evidence of 
similar vehicles advertised for sale at higher figures, as well as third party supporting 
statements about the vehicles valuation.
Ive looked the valuation figures from the recognised industry guides available to this service 
(those used by Churchill) and the figures are the same (or very similar) Discounting the one 
significantly different (lower) from the other three, the average of the two is £2,529. The 
values are also based retail figures (not the  much lower  trade values). Using recognised 
industry valuation guides is also the approach used by this service, as it reflects market data 
as a whole, which we consider to be more persuasive. I recognise the information provided 
by Mr D about vehicles hes seen advertised for sale, but I dont think they are more 
persuasive than data from recognised industry guides. 
So, Ive concluded the approach used by Churchill is reasonable and in line with what wed 
expect. As well as reflecting retail values, the guides also include specific mileage data of 
the vehicle (which indicates it being below average mileage for its age). While Ive reached this conclusion, Ive also considered the specific points made by Mr D 
about the extras on his vehicle (such as the upgraded stereo and CD autochanger). 
However, these wouldnt necessarily affect the market valuation of the vehicle, so I cant 
fairly say the values provided by Mr D should be added to the industry guide valuations. And 
I dont think they would be considered as separate items of claim under the policy.
Similarly, some of the work Mr D says hes carried out on the vehicle wouldnt enhance the 
vehicles market valuation. Mr D also mentions tools in the vehicle when it was stolen (which 
he says were worth £300). Ive not seen any indications these were considered as part of the 
claim, nor in the final response from Churchill. That being the case I havent considered this 
aspect in this decision. 
In his response to our investigators view, Mr D also referred to a report in the media about 
Churchills valuation practices in recent years. Mr D didnt provide a reference for the report, 
but my role here is to consider the information and evidence relevant to the specific 
circumstances of this case and Mr Ds complaint. As Ive set out above, I think Churchills 
approach is reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
On the issue of communication between Churchill and Mr D, and their response to emails, 
Churchill have acknowledged delays in responding. Looking at the exchanges between Mr D 
and Churchill, I agree Churchills responses werent as timely as they could have been (and 
as Mr D could have expected). Looking at the exchanges as a whole, I think Churchills 
award of £100 compensation is fair and reasonable.
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded Churchill have acted fairly and reasonably, 
so I wont be asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman