DRN-2971577
The complaint
Mr R complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has declined his home insurance claim for 
damage caused by storm.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr R noticed some water damage on his kitchen wall. He tried to find a 
roofer to come out and take a look at his roof but it took a few weeks to find someone. In 
October 2019 Mr R contacted AXA to raise a claim under his policy. He told it that the water 
damage was worsening and had been going on for a few months. AXA checked the weather 
records and wrote to Mr R to say there was no evidence of a recorded storm. Mr R asked 
AXA if it could recommend a roofer and it said it couldnt. AXA said he should get a quote 
from his own contractor. 
Mr Rs contractor quoted him £3,998 to repair the roof. Mr R forwarded the quote to AXA and 
complained about its decision not to accept his claim. In response, AXA agreed to appoint a 
surveyor to go out and look at Mr Rs roof and the internal damage. The visit took place on 
14 November 2019. Mr Rs roofer was present for the inspection and mentioned to the 
surveyor that there could be a potential issue with the felt. The surveyor thought that there 
was no evidence of any damage to the roof that could be attributed to a single storm event 
and that as Mr Rs policy didnt include cover for accidental damage, the internal damage 
wasnt covered either. The surveyor told Mr R that that the likely cause of damage was 
gradual deterioration of materials which wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr R told the surveyor that his house had been completely renovated 12 years previously. 
And he said he wasnt persuaded by the surveyors assessment of the damage. Mr R had 
his own roofer take off the roof tiles and he thought the felt was still in good condition. It was 
noted that a ridge tile had moved and that this could be a probable cause of the damage. 
Mr R said his quote for repairs had increased to £7,900 because hed had to get his roofer to 
check the felt and this was due to the incompetence of AXAs surveyor. Mr R said he was 
looking to be compensated by AXA for this amount. 
Mr R complained to AXA again. AXA looked into Mr Rs complaint and said that when it 
considered a storm claim it looked at three things, namely: was there a storm, was the 
damage sustained typically that which is caused by a storm and, was the storm the main 
cause of that damage. It said all three needed to have happened for a storm claim to be 
successful. AXA agreed with its surveyor that the damage appeared to be the result of wear 
and tear. It said damage caused by wear and tear was excluded from cover under Mr Rs 
policy. With regard to the internal damage, it said that such damage could be considered 
under the accidental damage peril but unfortunately such cover was an additional extra that 
Mr R hadnt selected and paid for when taking his policy out. So AXA said it was unable to 
overturn its decision to decline Mr Rs claim. 
Unhappy with the outcome of AXAs investigation, Mr R complained to this service about the 
decision to decline his claim, that AXAs surveyor had failed to take the time to explain things 
clearly to him, that it took the date Mr R first contacted it as the date of loss which was 
incorrect, about the extremely poor customer service hed received and the evidence AXA 
had disregarded. Mr R said he wanted this service to inspect AXAs practices.
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. He 
said that having checked the weather records for Mr Rs locality for the period Mr R had said 
the weather had been bad, he hadnt found any evidence of storm conditions. He also said 
the evidence indicated that the damage had occurred gradually. So he didnt think AXA had 
unfairly declined Mr Rs claim for storm damage. 
Mr R said in response that he remained out of pocket for over £7,000 and that hed supplied 
evidence that he had a strong case against AXA. He said that the storm damage happened 
between 8-9 June 2019 and 9-10 August 2019. A second investigator reviewed Mr Rs 
complaint and asked AXA some questions about the claim. A second view was issued but 
our investigator still didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said shed considered 
the weather conditions for the dates Mr R had mentioned along with every date in 
September 2019 but that there was no evidence of any storm conditions on any of the dates. 
And she said that there was no evidence of any damage to the roof that could be said to be 
the result of a one-off storm event.  
Mr R replied to say he disagreed with our investigators findings and that he had made a 
subject access request (DSAR) to this service. He said he wanted his case to remain open 
until he received and reviewed the information under the DSAR. Our investigator said she 
had taken Mr Rs comments into account but they hadnt changed her view about the 
complaint. She said she was referring the complaint to an ombudsman and that this 
services data protection team was responsible for sending out information following a 
DSAR. 
The complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all damage a home sustains is covered by a home insurance policy. Only damage thats 
caused by one of the insured perils (events) listed in the policy is covered. Policy perils 
include damage caused to the home by fire, theft, flood, storm etc. It is generally the 
responsibility of the policyholder to demonstrate the damage they are claiming for has been 
caused by one of the perils in the policy. Providing they can do so then the insurer must pay 
the claim unless it can successfully apply one of the policy exclusions to defeat it. 
Here, Mr R reported water damage to his kitchen wall which he attributed to a problem with 
the roof caused by the poor weather conditions in the preceding weeks. Damage caused by 
poor weather however, isnt one of the perils listed in the policy. The only potential peril to 
which the damage could be attributed was the storm peril. So AXA considered Mr Rs claim 
under this peril.
The terms and conditions of the contract between Mr R and AXA are set out in the policy 
booklet and AXA has specifically defined what it considers a storm to be. It says it is: 
A period of violent weather defined as
Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph) or
Torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hourThis means that to be classed as a storm, the weather must meet this definition. I can see 
that Mr R says his roof was damaged between 8-9 June 2019 and 9-10 August 2019. Ive 
seen the weather records for these dates and unfortunately theres no evidence of a single 
storm. If there is no storm then a storm cant be said to have caused the damage. I note too 
that our investigator checked the weather records for Mr Rs post code for every date in 
September but again there was no record of the weather ever attaining storm conditions. 
And I cant ignore that the surveyor  who has supplied the only expert evidence about the 
cause of damage  has stated that there was no damage to the roof that could be attributed 
to a one-off storm event (even if one had been identified). And whilst he didnt identify what it 
was that was causing the damage, he commented that Mr Rs roofer  who was present 
during the inspection  had said hed replaced some slates on the roof but that they hadnt 
been the cause of the internal water damage. 
And I cant ignore that the suggestion for what had caused the damage (an issue with the 
underfelt) came from Mr Rs roofer. AXAs surveyor accepted it as a logical possibility given 
the absence of any evidence of storm damage to the roof. If the storm had damaged the roof 
then it would be reasonable to expect to see tiles that had been lifted and displaced. But 
theres no evidence of such damage. So the roofers suggestion about the felts possible 
deterioration as a cause of the damage is a reasonable one. I cant reasonably agree that 
the felt wouldve been damaged by a storm without there also being evidence that itd 
damaged the tiles. 
Ive reviewed the photographs of the felt that Mr R has sent us and I can see that there is no 
real deterioration to it. But whilst that is the case, it is also true that there is no evidence of 
an insured event having occurred to have damaged the roof and allowed water ingress such 
that would be covered by the policy. 
I dont doubt that Mr R experienced the damage he reported but it is his responsibility to 
substantiate that it was caused by one of the perils listed in the policy in order for the claim 
to be covered. AXA, and its surveyor, is under no contractual duty to identify the defect that 
is causing the damage. AXA considered the claim under the storm peril as this was the only 
peril that could potentially have caused the damage Mr R reported, but unfortunately for him 
AXA concluded that the damage couldnt have been caused in that way because there was 
no identifiable storm on the dates in question. 
So, it follows that I cant reasonably conclude that AXA has unfairly declined Mr Rs claim for 
storm damage. 
Ive thought too about Mr Rs complaints about there being shortcomings in the service that 
he received from AXA and its surveyor. Whilst I appreciate Mr Rs strength of feeling about 
this, Im afraid theres no documentary evidence that would allow me to fairly and reasonably 
uphold this aspect of his complaint. Whilst AXA couldve appointed a surveyor to inspect 
Mr Rs property sooner I can see that it has apologised for not doing. 
I note that Mr R asked for his complaint to remain open until the DSAR he made to this 
service had been dealt with. I appreciate that there appears to have been a delay in dealing 
with Mr Rs DSAR but unfortunately this service is unable to leave complaints open 
indefinitely. We have to be fair to both parties to a dispute and leaving complaints open 
longer than is necessary for us to reach a fair and reasonable decision is something we 
arent content to do as it would mean we werent providing the best complaints customer 
service journey for our customers. And Im mindful of the fact that Mr R hasnt specified what 
it is he hopes his DSAR will reveal and how it could change the outcome of his complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman