DRN-1731839
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) handling and settlement 
of a claim made under her Building Insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2018 Miss P reported damage to her home caused by an escape of water to 
RSA, the provider of her Building Insurance policy.
There were a number of delays and issues throughout the claim which caused a knock-on 
effect to the claim being able to be progressed.
For example, Miss P was asked to provide quotes for repair. After this a loss adjuster was 
appointed and inspected the damage. An asbestos test was required, however there were 
delays in this being completed. This caused drying to be delayed, which then meant the rest 
of the claim was delayed too.
The loss adjuster didnt carry out an accurate assessment of the repairs needed, which 
meant further visits were required. And drying was also said to be completed when it wasnt, 
which also impacted on the claim progression.
There were also a number of requests for scopes of works, and discussion around 
settlement amounts. And disputes over the extent of repairs needed connected to the loss.
RSA ultimately made a further settlement offer in April 2019 following a different claim 
handler being appointed. In this they offered settlement for work required under the trace 
and access section of the policy. But the trace and access settlement was reduced on the 
basis of a policy limit RSA applied.
Miss P was unhappy with the delays and handling of the claim and complained to RSA. They 
offered £500 compensation, but Miss P was unhappy with this, so she approached this 
service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that RSA had applied the incorrect policy limit 
to the trace and access policy section, which meant the claim settlement had been 
incorrectly reduced. So he said RSA should pay the shortfall it had reduced the claim by, 
and add 8% interest. 
He also said there were delays and poor handling throughout the claim. He acknowledged 
RSA had already paid £500 compensation for this, but he said based on the impact to 
Miss P, that this should be increased to £1,000.
RSA agreed with the investigators findings. But Miss P didnt. She said she thought £5,000 
would be fairer compensation in the circumstances.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, an ombudsman was asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claim settlement and the policy limit
Following the claim being made and a number of issues (which Ill comment on below), RSA 
appointed another claims handler to take over. They revisited all the works they believed 
were required and calculated a settlement in April 2019 (some of which had already been 
paid). This was partly made up of the settlement for damage caused by the escape of water. 
It also included an amount for works RSA said fell under the trace and access part of the 
policy.
But RSA said the limit under trace and access in the policy was £5,000. So whilst the repair 
costs RSA had calculated under this part of the policy were £9,048.56, this was reduced due 
to the £5,000 policy limit, so wasnt paid in full.
Our investigator looked at the policy schedule and the limit which RSA had applied when 
they reduced the trace and access part of the claim. He concluded that RSA had applied an 
incorrect policy limit of £5,000, and based on this, had unfairly reduced the settlement. He 
said £15,000 was the limit in the policy, so he said RSA should pay the shortfall it had 
incorrectly reduced this part of the claim by, and to add 8% interest. RSA accepted this. 
Having looked at the policy schedule, this shows the limit to be £15,000 as concluded by our 
investigator (and accepted by RSA as being the correct limit). Therefore, RSA has applied 
an incorrect policy limit and used this to unfairly reduce the trace and access part of the 
claim settlement.
So I agree with our investigator that RSA should pay the shortfall from the schedule of works 
calculated under the trace and access section, which it unfairly reduced the claim by when 
applying that incorrect limit. It is my understanding that RSA made additional payments 
whilst the complaint was awaiting review by an ombudsman so Miss P could continue with 
the repairs. But if it hasnt already paid the shortfall, then it should do so if Miss P accepts 
my final decision. 8% interest should also be added from date of loss to date of settlement, 
again if it hasnt already been paid, and Miss P accepts my final decision.
The claim settlement would always have been less than Miss P expected either based on 
her own quotes, or RSAs schedule of works if the £5,000 limit RSA had applied was correct. 
But the position has moved on from there now that its been identified that limit was 
incorrect, and the correct limit hasnt been exhausted. Since receiving the extra funds and 
having some works carried out, Miss P mentioned to our investigator that she thinks the 
claim settlement has been undervalued based on some advice from her builder who is 
carrying out the works. 
Our investigator asked RSA to send a breakdown of how it had calculated the claim 
settlement(s) to Miss P so she could consider this further now things have moved on from 
the original reduced claim settlement and complaint, and now she is having works carried 
out. 
Since receiving the funds and breakdown from RSA, Miss P hasnt specified whether she 
still believes there might be a shortfall or where specifically that might be. But if she still 
believes that there has been, now there is a higher limit (which hasnt been exhausted), she 
should raise this with RSA in the first instance for them to consider whether any further settlement is due. If after this Miss P remains dissatisfied, we may be able to consider this as 
a new separate complaint.
Claim handling, delays and compensation 
As both parties are aware of what happened throughout the claim, I dont mean this as a 
discourtesy to either party, but I dont intend to comment on everything that happened. But 
having looked at everything, its clear and accepted by all parties that the claim wasnt 
handled as expected.
RSA awarded £500 compensation for their handling of the claim. Our investigator suggested 
this be increased to £1,000 which RSA agreed with. But Miss P feels £5,000 would be more 
appropriate in the circumstances.
Any claim will cause inconvenience and be disruptive by its very nature. And having damage 
caused to your home will be distressing. But here there has been both avoidable delays, and 
failures in service caused by RSA which has added to this. I do sympathise with Miss P, as 
what looks to be a relatively straightforward claim became long and protracted, with multiple 
issues throughout which could have been avoided. This meant the claim took much longer 
than it needed to, and additional distress and inconvenience was caused by this.
As mentioned, Im not going to comment on everything that happened, as there isnt any 
dispute about what went wrong, but I will mention some of the key issues which impacted 
Miss P. 
For example, after Miss P was asked to obtain quotes, a loss adjuster was then appointed to 
inspect the damage. Potential Asbestos was identified as needing to be checked, but the 
relevant third party wasnt appointed until around four weeks after RSA had received the 
report. And even when they were appointed, they didnt actively try to progress things. If they 
had, the test could have been completed much sooner and the claim progressed earlier than 
when it was.
Once the asbestos test had been completed drying could be started, but this wasnt until 
around the end of January 2019  quite some time after the loss happened. Its clear this 
could and should have happened much sooner, but for the delays with the asbestos testing. 
These delays had an overall effect on delaying the rest of the claim.  
RSA recognise that the loss adjuster didnt carry out an accurate assessment of the repairs 
needed, and if they had, then a second visit much later into the claim likely wouldnt have 
been needed.
Drying was also concluded as complete when it wasnt, and it wasnt identified that the floor 
was wet. There was also a dispute over the flooring being replaced, which RSA said hadnt 
been damaged by the loss, but this was later accepted when another claims handler looked 
at the claim.
These are just some of the things that didnt go as expected during the claim, which caused 
it to be much longer than it should have been. There wasnt just one failure during it, rather a 
multitude of delays and disputes over the works needed which slowed things down. In 
addition, RSA applied the wrong limit to the trace and access section and reduced the claim 
settlement unfairly  which Ive talked about above.
I also understand that aside from the specific failings and issues in the claim itself, living with 
the damage was disruptive and inconvenient for Miss P and family. For example, having a 
hole in the floor in the bathroom, and no bath. Whilst the property wasnt uninhabitable as there was a shower, due to their circumstances, this did make using the bathroom facilities 
difficult and Miss P had to make other arrangements for some members of her family.
So its clear all round and not disputed by either party that things didnt go as expected 
throughout the claim. There were avoidable delays and failings in the handling. RSA offered 
£500 compensation for this, but I agree with our investigator that £1,000 is a fair and 
reasonable amount in the circumstances. 
As I said above, any claim will be distressing, but I can only award compensation for the 
impact RSA has directly caused. And whilst I appreciate Miss P feels £5,000 is more 
appropriate, having considered everything that has occurred, I think £1,000 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should:
Pay Miss P the shortfall it unfairly reduced the settlement by when it applied the 
incorrect limit to trace and access 
Add 8% simple interest* from date of loss to date of settlement 
In addition to the £500 compensation already offered, to pay a further £500 
compensation
*If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from any interest due to Miss P, it should tell her how much 
its taken off. It should also give Miss P a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman