DRN-3284979
The complaint
Mr and Ms T complain that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited (KMC) treated them 
unfairly in relation to their mortgage.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr and Ms T held a mortgage with KMC. They sold their property, and believed the 
date of completion for the sale was 28 June 2021. The buyer moved in the same day.
KMC said the transfer was received on 28 July 2021  not June. And it said the 
money was sent to the wrong account and without an associated reference by Mr 
and Ms Ts solicitors (Company A). KMC said this meant it could not identify the 
correct customer or account, so the funds were held in a nominal account.
As the mortgage wasnt redeemed, arrears began to build. KMC contacted Mr and 
Ms T in August 2021, and the issue came to light. KMC requested details from 
Company A, which were received around mid-September 2021. KMC then applied 
the payment to the mortgage account, backdating this to the start of September. 
Mr and Ms T were surprised to learn the mortgage was not redeemed and 
complained. They said it was unfair to charge them mortgage payments after they 
had moved out, requesting KMC remove any late payment markers and refund any 
interest charged after their believed completion date of 28 June 2021.
KMC stood by its position. But said as it was evident Company A was at fault, it 
would agree as a gesture of goodwill to remove the late payment marker registered 
for August 2021.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint. She said KMC had received the funds on 
time. And while there was some administration of associating the funds with the right 
account, she didnt think it was fair for KMC to charge interest after this date  so it 
should write off any interest owed or refund any payments received. She also said no 
adverse data should be recorded about any missed or late payments after this date. 
Mr and Ms T agreed but KMC didnt. It reiterated that it hadnt made any mistakes. 
Mr T also provided evidence he said showed Company A had sent the funds in June 
2021, but recognised it had done so using an incorrect account number.
So, the complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. I issued my provisional 
thoughts on 25 January 2022. Ive included an extract of my findings from this below.
From what Ive seen, KMCs redemption request to Mr and Ms T and Company A said the 
CHAPS payment would need to include the name, address, and reference number on all 
payments. It also gave all the relevant payment details. This is common across lenders, and 
given the significance and amount of the transfer, seems very sensible.
KMC said the transfer that did take place in July 2021 only included a reference of KMCs 
own name so could not be traced to a particular customer. Its internal notes reflect this. 
Mr and Ms T provided evidence from Company A. This says the payment made to KMC 
included the incorrect account number. And also, appears it didnt include all of the 
information as requested by KMC.
If Mr and Ms T are able to provide clear evidence from Company A that shows the payment 
was made on time, and using the correct details with the required references, I will 
reconsider this. But as it stands, on balance, Im satisfied the fault doesnt lie with KMC.
As KMC wasnt in receipt of the funds, the mortgage continued until the issue was rectified in 
September 2021. Mr and Ms T may feel its unfair for KMC to consider the mortgage as still 
in place  but put simply, it was still in place  so any arrears or interest owed and that 
accrued across this time is in keeping with the terms of the mortgage.
KMC said it would not record arrears for the month of August 2021 in light of Company A 
being at fault. This is more than I would have asked it to do, so Im satisfied this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
KMC agreed to the decision but Mr and Ms T did not. They acknowledged the problem may 
have been caused by their solicitor but questioned why it took three months for KMC to 
allocate the funds to the correct account, saying this should have been done within hours or 
days. And they said KMC shouldve refunded the interest payments made immediately once 
the correct transfer was made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint.
Mr and Ms T havent provided any further evidence from Company A that shows the 
payment was ever made on time, with the correct details. So, Im still satisfied KMC was not 
at fault for any misplacement or delay of funds.
Mr and Ms T have suggested KMC should take responsibility for not identifying who the 
sender of the funds was sooner. However, the funds were seemingly sent without any 
references or relevant information beyond KMCs own name. So, Im not persuaded it would 
be fair to hold KMC responsible for being unable to trace the intended recipient account of 
the funds without these details. 
Mr and Ms T have since mentioned a concern about the speed of recovery of interest paid 
after the mortgage was eventually settled. I havent seen this point was raised with KMC or 
this Service previously, so it isnt something Ill comment on here beyond saying Im satisfied 
it doesnt have any bearing on the wider complaint theyve asked us to consider.
My final decision
For all of the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman