DRN-4330825
The complaint
Mr N has complained about a training course he paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement 
with Caledonian Consumer Finance Ltd (CCF). 
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to the parties, so I wont go over 
everything again in detail. But, in summary, Mr N entered into a fixed sum loan agreement 
with CCF in December 2019 to pay for a training course. The course cost £7,800 and Mr N 
paid a £60 deposit. He was due to make monthly payments of £180 for 43 months. 
Ill summarise the complaint points I can see Mr N made:
When being sold the course, he was told the tutors would be supportive and 
available to help. But this wasnt true as they werent always available. 
He wasnt told how much self-learning the course consisted of. 
He was mis-led about how flexible the course was.
He was misled about how supportive CCF would be if he needed to discuss 
payments. 
The lack of support affected his mental health. 
The laptop he used was very old and took a long time to load. Sometimes he had to 
use his own device and he ran out of data. 
The course moved from in person to online, but this wasnt discussed when the 
course was sold. 
When Mr N was near the end of his course he was suddenly logged out and he was 
asked to pay £400 to continue it. 
There were other companies offering the same course at a more affordable price. 
CCF responded to the complaint saying, in summary:
Its not the course provider and it wasnt present at the point of sale. But the course 
provider said all its agents are trained. And that the paperwork supplied to Mr N gave 
him clear information about what could be expected from the course and the fixed 
sum loan. 
Mr N had a 14-day cooling-off period if, after having reviewed the information, he 
wanted to change his mind. 
It did offer Mr N support in 2020 when he asked for help because of the impact of 
Covid-19 on his employment. It gave Mr N a six-month payment holiday and 
explained it could offer him a reduced payment plan should he require it. It also 
refunded late payment charges. 
It said Mr N had been in regular contact with the tutor team.
Some of the practical training had moved online as a result of the restrictions in place 
due to Covid-19. 
The course provider didnt receive a complaint about the quality of the laptop. 
It offered to refund the £400 cost Mr N had to pay to extend the course. 
Mr N wasnt happy with the offer and asked the Financial Ombudsman to investigate. In 
summary, he said:
The £400 offer wasnt reasonable. He wants his complaint understood. And he 
requests further compensation due to the impact the matter has had on his life. 
He reiterated the course was mis-sold. The 14-day cooling-off was irrelevant 
because problems happened afterwards. 
When he asked for help in 2020 the CCF agents werent empathetic, and that he was 
told the payment deferrals would impact his credit score. 
He said the customer service from CCF and the course provider in particular was 
poor. 
He wasnt told the course structure would change. 
He wasnt told thered be a charge if the course wasnt completed in 3 years. 
He was initially sold this as a weekend course, but this was unachievable. 
He wasnt given the support he was promised. He had to learn himself.
There were delays when trying to book practical weeks.  
He requested half the course money refunded 
One of our investigators looked into things but thought CCFs response to the complaint was 
broadly fair. She highlighted she was able to consider CCFs response to Mr Ns claim. She 
thought the offer to refund £400 was reasonable. She thought CCF offered support during 
Covid-19 that shed expect. She thought it was reasonable the course switched to online as 
a result of Covid-19. She said Mr N had made good progress with the course. She said 
shed not seen the course provider was told about any issues with the laptop. And she didnt 
think shed seen enough to say the course was mis-sold. 
Mr N didnt agree. He said he was confused why she couldnt consider the service received 
from the course provider. He said the sale was recorded by the course provider. He said 
even though CCF gave him payment deferrals it threatened how it would affect his credit 
score. He said he knows the practical sessions couldnt happen during Covid-19 lockdown, 
but his term time wasnt paused during that time. The course provider didnt give any other 
options apart from studying online which didnt suit his learning style. The only reason he 
was able to progress in the course was due to his workplace. He said he found other 
students who were also unhappy with the course provider. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
I decided to write to the parties to set out my thoughts on an aspect of the complaint that 
hadnt been considered. I noted Mr N mentioned he was concerned about the impact on his 
credit file when he deferred payments during Covid-19. I contacted CCF about this because I 
couldnt see it was considered. I also wanted to ask if it had any of the call recordings from 
the time and whether there was a record of the sale being recorded, given what Mr N had 
said in response to our investigators assessment.
After hearing back from CCF, in summary, I said:
CCF said the sales meeting was carried out in person in December 2019 and there 
are no recordings to submit. So itll be difficult to know exactly what was spoken 
about, but I will take Mr Ns comments on board when issuing a decision. 
CCF doesnt have the call recordings available from when Mr N asked to defer 
payments during Covid-19. I appreciate Mr N is unhappy with how those calls were 
handled. Again, it will be difficult to reach conclusions about what was discussed or 
how the calls were generally handled. What I can see though is that CCF was able to 
give the sort of support wed expect during that time  which is when it allowed Mr N to defer 6 payments. This is in line with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
guidance around that time for customers whose finances had been impacted by 
Covid-19. 
I asked CCF whether Mr Ns credit file was negatively impacted during the time he 
deferred payments as a result of Covid-19. I think Mr N may have asked for help prior 
to the FCA guidance being released. But I wanted to make sure his credit file hadnt 
been impacted because the FCAs intention (when the guidance came into effect) 
was that customers credit files wouldnt be worsened if they took payment deferrals.
CCF explained that Mr N had (two separate) three-month payment deferral periods 
applied to his account and there was a gap of several weeks between the 1st and 2nd 
deferral. It said there was a missed payment recorded before he applied for the 
second deferral. But it offered to remove this for him given the circumstances. 
Overall, I thought thats fair of it. I dont have grounds to ask it to do more with regard 
to the credit file. 
CCF didnt have anything further to add. And I cant see we received a response from Mr N.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr N and CCF that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. 
Mr N paid for the course using a fixed sum loan agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement, and our service is able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of 
agreements. 
I take into account the relevant law. So, in this case, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 makes CCF responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the course 
provider under certain conditions. I think the necessary relationships between the parties 
exists and the claim is within the relevant financial limits. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant to this complaint. The CRA implies 
terms into the contract that services will be carried out with reasonable skill and care. The 
CRA also sets out what remedies are available to consumers if statutory rights under a 
services (or goods) contract are not met. 
It's important to note that Im not considering a complaint against the course provider. Im 
considering a complaint against CCF. So I have to consider CCFs obligations as a provider 
of financial services  in this case its liability for breach of contract or misrepresentation 
under section 75. 
As a starting point, like our investigator pointed out, Im only able to consider the complaint 
that CCF has already had the chance to consider. I also want to set out that I appreciate 
Mr N has said other students have complained about the course. But I need to look into the 
individual circumstances of Mr Ns complaint. Moreover, I appreciate Mr N thinks he 
overpaid for the course. But I dont have the grounds to say that the price of the course was 
unfair. Mr N knew he was paying £7,800 for the course and agreed to that price. As Ive set out to the parties, the recording of the sale isnt available so its hard to reach firm 
conclusions on what was discussed. Mr N says he was misled about the course, whereas 
CCF has said Mr N was supplied sufficient information about the course with the paperwork 
provided. Ive reviewed the paperwork. 
It seems that Mr N was unhappy he wasnt given as much support as he was promised. Hes 
said the tutors, for example, werent always available. But Ive not been supplied sufficient 
evidence that Mr N didnt receive support and that there was a breach of contract as a result 
of that. I note in the important information section of the registration document it says that 
tutor support is not assumed but is optionally available. It says Mr N confirmed to say he was 
left with a complete course kit, including the study guide and plan of the course. And that he 
understood the open learning nature of his self-study program. Mr N hasnt shown us a term 
thats been breached with regards to the level of self-learning or the flexibility of the course. 
Nor has he shown us a term thats been breached with regards to the issues he says he had 
with his laptop. I cant just uphold the complaint because Mr N says he was unhappy with the 
course. Id need to see sufficient evidence CCF is liable for a misrepresentation or a breach 
of contract.
Overall, I appreciate Mr N was unhappy with elements of the course. I think some of the 
things he was unhappy about might be subjective. But when considering CCFs liability  I 
need to specifically look at whether the service wasnt carried out with reasonable care and 
skill, or whether express terms in the contract have been breached. I also need to consider 
whether theres evidence something was misrepresented to him. I do understand that can be 
hard to prove, and I hope Mr N doesnt think Ive not put any weight on what hes said, 
because I have. But in order for me to direct CCF to take action, Id need sufficient 
supporting evidence to start with. And based on what Ive seen, Ive not been supplied 
sufficient evidence to say CCF needs to take action in relation to a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation.
Mr N has also complained about the support offered during Covid-19. Im sorry to hear he 
thought the agents were rude. Ive not been able to obtain the relevant call recordings. But I 
have to bear in mind CCF gave Mr N six months of payment deferrals. I think this was 
reasonable, and in line with the guidance from the FCA for customers whose finances had 
been impacted by Covid-19. I think it also offered to help Mr N if he was unable to restart 
making payments after the deferral, which seems fair. CCF said it recorded a missed 
payment between the time of the two sets of three-month deferrals. But its offered to 
remove this from his credit file. I think this is fair in all the circumstances, and Im not going to 
direct it to do more in relation to the way it handled things during Covid-19.
I can understand Mr N was unhappy the course moved online, and that this wasnt ideal for 
him. But if the government restrictions meant that the courses had to be moved online, I 
dont find this to be an unreasonable alternative that CCF offered.
Finally, I can understand Mr N was unhappy he was asked to pay £400 to extend the course. 
I think the terms relating to the length of the course could have been clearer. But CCF has 
offered to refund Mr N £400. I think this is fair in all the circumstances. 
While Im sorry to hear Mr N was unhappy with the course, Im pleased to see hes 
progressed with it. For the reasons given above, Ive not got the grounds to direct CCF to do 
more than its already offered.    My final decision
Caledonian Consumer Finance Ltd offered Mr N £400 and to remove the adverse 
information on his credit file during the payment deferral period, and I think this is fair in all 
the circumstances. 
To the extent its not done so already, it should pay Mr N £400 and remove the adverse 
information. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman