DRN-4330148
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy that Santander UK Plc wont refund the money they lost to an 
investment which they now consider is a scam.
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
In November 2018, Mr and Mrs R received information or advice from a broker/IFA (I will 
refer to as A) to invest money into an investment - with an organisation I will refer to as W. 
On 29 November 2018, Mrs R sent a cheque for £20,000 from their Santander account to 
their investment with W. Mr and Mrs R received two interest payments back from W.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He didnt think the payment was so unusual 
based on the account activity but, in any event, he didnt think intervention by the bank would 
have made a difference in this case as W looked to be a genuine company at the time.
Mr and Mrs R did not accept the investigators conclusions, so the case has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
I have carefully noted the representations made by Mr and Mrs Rs representative, but I 
wont be addressing every single point thats been raised. No disrespect is intended, and it 
doesnt follow that the points havent been considered, simply that I dont need to 
particularise every point in reaching an outcome I consider to be fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. Ive instead concentrated on the issues I think are central to the outcome 
of this complaint.
I note W has gone into liquidation and there is an ongoing police investigation into the 
matter. So the outcome on whether or not this is a fraud or scam is not currently known. But 
I dont need to make a finding on this to reach an overall outcome that I consider to be fair 
and reasonable in this particular case.
A cheque is not considered a payment service under the previous or present Payment 
Service Regulations (PSRs), so the provisions of those regulations do not apply to this type 
of payment.
The starting position is that the bank is expected to process payments that a customer 
instructs it to make without undue delay. So, presented with a cheque drawn in accordance 
with the terms of the contract, a bank must honour the payment unless there are legal, 
regulatory or contractual grounds which may, in exceptional circumstances, allow refusal of 
a payment instruction. 
At the time, Mrs R signed the cheque and intended to pay W believing it was a valid 
investment and there was no mistake made in the execution of the payment  Santander 
was complying with Mr and Mrs Rs instruction. So, under the terms and conditions of the 
account, Mr and Mrs R are presumed liable for any loss in the first instance.
However, a bank may be in breach of its duty of care by not acting adequately or at all on 
information that would or should have triggered fraud alerts and systems required for the 
proper conduct of business.  
I dont consider there to be a material difference between the reasonable, good-practice 
requirements on firms when processing cheques when it comes to monitoring accounts for 
the prevention of financial crime and having adequate systems and controls in place to 
prevent misappropriation of funds. 
The investigator said the transaction wasnt unusual based on the historic activity on Mr and 
Mrs Rs account. There had been some recent activity of similar large payments from the 
account and Mr and Mrs R had also received a large lump sum into the account - which I 
understand was from the sale of a property. Mr and Mrs R appear to have been making a 
number of investments on the back of this. Arguably prior to the deposit of the property funds 
 there hadnt been any large transactions like this. But even if Santander concluded the 
£20,000 cheque was unusual for the account and had intervened on the payment, I dont 
think it would have made a difference in this case broadly for the reasons the investigator 
previously outlined  which I have expanded on below.
Causation is a critical determination factor in every fraud case. I need to be satisfied that 
suitable intervention would have made a difference to Mr and Mrs Rs decision making or 
that Santander could have reasonably prevented the loss. In doing so I reach my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  so what I consider more likely than not based on the evidence 
and wider circumstances of the case.
If questions had been asked about the nature and purpose of the payment Mr and Mrs R 
was proposing to make, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R would have 
explained they were investing in W - itself a UK registered company at the time and that this 
was based on the advice of A - another UK registered company.Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs R might have researched things more  I dont think the 
investment would have been cause for concern at the point of transfer or the events that 
have now transpired with W foreseeable. Mr and Mrs R was transferring £20,000 for an 
investment with an organisation (W) which appeared  through its registration with 
Companies House - to be legitimate. Records held with Companies House indicate W was a 
genuine limited company that was incorporated in September 2015 and was actively trading 
(with no suggestion of liquidation) at the time Mr and Mrs R sent her money to it. A was also 
a genuine limited company that was incorporated in March 2015. So, the payment didnt look 
like fraud or a scam and it would have needed a considerable amount of investigation to 
unearth the facts about W that have now come to light (and which even now seem 
inconclusive after a considerable amount of time). So, I dont think Santander ought 
reasonably to have cause for concern.
Im sorry Mr and Mrs R has lost a considerable amount of money and I can understand why 
they would like to be compensated for their losses. But Im only considering whether the 
bank should be held responsible for what happened, and I dont think it did anything wrong in 
allowing the transaction to be processed.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman