DRN-3814470
The complaint
The estate of Mrs H complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as 
More Th>n (RSA), about the delay in its complaint response. The estate wants RSA to 
improve its complaint response times and to increase the control it has over its contractors. 
What happened
Mrs H suffered an escape of water at her home in early 2021. Her personal representative 
submitted a claim to Mrs Hs insurer, RSA, for repairs to the damage caused by the leak. 
RSA instructed its agent to handle the claim, and the agent contacted Mrs Hs representative 
promptly. Drying was begun at the property and a scope of works was prepared. 
The property was dry by late March 2021 and repair works took place between March and 
August 2021.
In July 2021, Mrs Hs personal representative complained to RSA about the delays in the 
repairs, and the standard of some of the works that had been done. 
RSA acknowledged the complaint in July 2021. 
RSA then sent holding responses, or responses indicating that the complaint was still being 
considered, in August, September, October and November 2021. Within these, RSA 
acknowledged that it had not responded within the required timescale and told Mrs H that 
she could complain to our service. 
Mrs H complained to us in November 2021. 
Sadly, in January 2022, Mrs H passed away. The complaint was subsequently handled by 
her estate. 
In February 2022, RSA sent its final response to the complaint. It acknowledged the failures 
and the issues in service which had taken place and it offered Mrs Hs estate £1000 
compensation as an apology. 
That compensation was accepted. 
The estate remained unhappy about the time it had taken for RSA to send the final 
response, and that it had given the impression that the complaint was being looked into 
earlier.
Our investigator looked into this matter and initially upheld the complaint, and then later did 
not uphold the complaint, on the basis that the delays took place during the period when the 
pandemic was affecting work and response times.
The estate of Mrs H did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I extend my sympathies to those bringing the complaint for their loss. I appreciate 
that this has been an upsetting time and any delays or conflicting information that the estate 
has experienced can exacerbate an already difficult time. 
I do, however, agree with the investigators conclusion that the complaint ought not to be 
upheld. 
This is because I agree that the business was also facing difficulties responding as usual 
when its work systems were disrupted by the pandemic, and also because RSA did 
eventually acknowledge the failings and make a reasonable offer to reflect these, which was 
accepted. 
What remains of the complaint, then, is a complaint just about the way that RSA dealt with, 
or delayed dealing with, the complaint. 
There has been previous discussion about whether RSA exceeded the requirement to send 
a final response within 8 weeks, and there is no dispute that RSA did miss this limit. The limit 
is applicable, but complaint handling is not a financial service and so we are not able to 
consider issues in complaint handling in isolation.
I understand the frustration felt at the delay before the response was received and I 
appreciate that the letters did give the impression that a final response would be sent soon, 
but am pleased that the ultimate response did fully acknowledge the issues in service and 
made an appropriate offer to reflect these. 
For these reasons, and whilst I understand this may be upsetting for the estate, I do not 
uphold the complaint and do not ask RSA to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold the estate of Mrs Hs complaint and I do not 
ask Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman