DRN-2826203
The complaint
Mr M complains about how AIB Group (UK) Plc dealt with payments he tried to make to a 
business in China.
What happened
Mr M says he made a number of attempts to pay a supplier in China but the payments were 
returned to his AIB account. He says he did make a successful payment to the business, but 
the later attempts were unsuccessful. Mr M says the full amount of the payments were not 
returned and he was given a number of different reasons by AIB for the problems. He would 
like compensation for whats taken place and for the impact AIBs mistakes had on his 
relationship with the business in China.
AIB says it hasnt made a mistake and processed the payments in good faith. It says the 
receiving bank rejected the payments and it doesnt have any control over that. AIB has 
offered to refund the difference in returned payments and charges as a gesture of goodwill 
which amounts to £210.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator didnt 
think there was any evidence the problem was caused by AIB and thought the issue was 
caused by the receiving bank rejecting the payments.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and in summary says the goodwill offer is a form of blackmail 
and that he was given conflicting information by AIB staff. He says he had a similar problem 
about 12 years ago with AIB and also question why the first payment was processed in 
hours rather than days.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision and that he will have unanswered 
questions about what took place here.
I have looked at AIBs records and can see there is evidence that the receiving bank rejected 
a number of Mr Ms attempted payments. I dont think there is any evidence that AIB 
incorrectly recorded the beneficiarys details or that it made a mistake in processing the 
transaction. So, on balance I think it likely that the reason Mr Ms payments were rejected 
were due to the receiving bank. I dont think its clear why the payments were rejected but Im 
satisfied that the key issue is that AIB didnt have any control over the decision to reject the 
payments. So, it follows that I cant fairly hold AIB responsible for whatever took place.
I appreciate Mr M says he was given conflicting information by AIB staff about what took 
place and Im sure Mr M would have liked to have known what the issue was so that he 
could correct it. But I think it likely AIB staff were trying to help Mr M and wouldnt have 
known what was the reason for the rejected payments.
I also appreciate Mr M says a similar problem took place some 12 years ago. That is not 
something I can consider here, and I have made clear that based on the evidence I have 
seen, it was not AIB that rejected Mr Ms payments but the receiving bank.
Im satisfied that AIB made a fair and reasonable goodwill offer to cover the sending fees 
and the likely exchange rate differences. I cant fairly conclude that offer was a form of 
blackmail as it would be for a court to make such a finding, but I hope that AIB will continue 
to offer that payment despite what it said in its final response letter.
Overall, Im unable to fairly conclude AIB made a mistake in processing Mr Ms payments 
and based on the evidence I have seen, I think it was the receiving bank that rejected the 
payments. I cant comment on why Mr Ms first payment was processed successfully and or 
why that payment took hours not days to process. For those reasons I cant fairly order AIB 
to pay Mr M the compensation he would like. I also think this brings an end to what we in 
trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman