DRN-3240108
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Mrs D and Mr Hs complaint.
summary and background to complaint
Mrs D and Mr H have said Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI) with a mortgage taken in 1994. A policy was taken at 
that time jointly and another was taken later by Mrs D only.
Halifax didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold - because it 
said Mrs D and Mr H had referred the complaint to us too late. But Halifax did offer to pay 
back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium for 
the joint policy because it didnt tell Mrs D and Mr H about the high level of commission and 
profit share theyd pay  which was unfair. Halifax said it didnt do anything wrong in relation 
to the commission on the other policy owned by Mrs D, but it made an offer as if it had.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mrs D and Mr Hs 
complaint about how the PPI was sold. And they thought Halifaxs payments were a fair way 
to resolve the complaint.
Mrs D and Mr Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. Mrs D and Mr H 
also asked that the matter be reviewed further  so it has been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that  
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more 
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter, telling them 
they can refer their complaint to us. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)  and it can be 
found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Halifax sent a final response letter to Mrs D in October 2012. It refers to both PPI policies 
and to Mrs D having expressed dissatisfaction with the sale of PPI and it groups her 
concerns into the headings of eligibility and suitability and gives Halifaxs views on these 
matters in connection with each policy. So it appears the complaint Halifax was responding 
to at that time was a complaint about the sale of the PPI. Im satisfied that the letter was a 
final response letter addressing a complaint about the sale of both policies, so Mrs D had six 
months from the date of that letter to refer that complaint to us.
That six-month period ran out in 2013  and Mrs D didnt refer the complaint to us within that 
time period. Instead Mrs D and Mr Hs representative contacted us in 2019 complaining 
about the sale of the PPI, having contacted Halifax again in 2019. In between Halifax had 
written to Mrs D again in 2015 to say that her policies had not been mis-sold and that her 
time to refer a complaint about that to the Financial Ombudsman Service had run out.
Mrs D and Mr Hs representative has said it cant verify that all matters it is now raising were 
addressed in the earlier complaint. But in my view Mrs D and Mr Hs complaint about the PPI 
is in essence the complaint Halifax responded to in 2012. So in my view it is a complaint 
Mrs D had six months from Halifaxs 2012 letter to bring to us. As the complaint was brought 
to us outside that time, it was referred to us out of time under the rules I have to apply.
I can look into complaints referred outside the usual time limits where Im satisfied the failure 
to comply with the time limits was because of exceptional circumstances. Ive considered all 
that has been said by and for Mrs D and Mr H, but Ive seen nothing to suggest exceptional 
circumstances apply here. For example, Ive seen nothing to suggest Mrs D couldnt have 
referred a complaint about the sales to us before the time to do so ran out in 2013 and Ive 
seen nothing to suggest the time that passed between then and Mrs D and Mr Hs approach 
to us in 2019 was a delay caused by an exceptional circumstance.
So I dont think exceptional circumstances apply here and it follows that were unable to help 
Mrs D and Mr H with their complaint about how the PPI was sold  Im sorry that this may 
disappoint Mrs D and Mr H.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the 
non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so, Ive decided Halifax shouldve disclosed the commission it received for the 
joint policy and that Halifaxs offer to refund some of the cost of that PPI, to compensate for 
the unfairness caused, is fair. Ive also decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the 
commission it received for Mrs Ds other policy  but Halifax has offered to pay back some of 
the cost of that PPI anyway, so theres nothing more it needs to do for that policy. My 
reasons for all this are set out below. 
was there an unfair relationship?
Halifax didnt tell Mrs D and Mr H about the high levels of commission and profit share paid 
for their policy. So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the PPI; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Halifax and Mrs D and Mr H was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act, 
because Halifax didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share for 
their policy;
I dont think Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs D and Mr H, because 
it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share for their policy.
But for Mrs Ds policy, Halifax has told us the commission was less than half what she paid 
for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has worked this out and, from what weve 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipseen, Im satisfied the commission for that policy was less than half the cost of the PPI. As 
thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy;
I dont think Halifax needed to tell Mrs D about the commission for her policy. 
I say this having considered the representations Mrs D and Mr Hs representative has made 
about the commission, including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 
140B of the Consumer Credit Act on the complaint. This includes how, in Mrs D and Mr Hs 
representatives view, Halifax failed to tell Mrs D about high commission and profit-share 
rates paid and other matters relating to the value of the policy and how, in Mrs D and Mr Hs 
representatives view, that meant the policy was poor value, one Mrs D wouldnt have taken 
had she known about the commission level and she should get a refund of all her premiums.
But, in light of what Ive said above about the commission levels, it follows that I dont think 
the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship in the case of Mrs Ds policy  and I dont 
think Halifax treated her unfairly in relation to that policy, having regard to the commission. 
This means Halifax doesnt need to pay Mrs D back any of the commission she paid for her 
PPI policy. But Halifax has offered to give back to Mrs D some of the cost of her PPI policy 
anyway, to compensate her as if it had treated her unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do 
anything more.
redress to remedy the unfair relationship for Mrs D and Mr Hs policy
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified in relation to the policy held by Mrs D and Mr H.
Mrs D and Mr Hs representative has made a number of representations about this part of 
the complaint, including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act on the complaint. In summary it has said Mrs D and Mr H should 
get back all the money they paid for the policy because Halifax failed to tell them about the 
high commission and profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and 
exclusions on cover. Because the representative says that meant the policy was poor value, 
it says I should find Mrs D and Mr H wouldnt have taken the policy had they known about 
the level of commission and they should receive a refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mrs D and Mr H in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Halifax not 
disclosing the high level of commission to them before they purchased their policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view, a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs D and Mr Hs representative suggests, driven to conclude they wouldnt 
have purchased the policy but for Halifaxs failure to disclose the level of commission, 
for the reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Halifax to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mrs D and Mr H paid for their PPI policy - I consider this fairly 
removes the source of the unfairness.
So I consider Halifaxs offer of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid 
in excess of 50% of the costs of Mrs D and Mr Hs policy (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances.
my final decision
Im unable to consider Mrs D and Mr Hs complaint about how their PPI policies were sold, 
because it was referred to us too late  and I dont consider the failure to comply with the 
time limits was because of exceptional circumstances.
Also Ive decided Bank of Scotland plc didnt need to disclose the commission it received for 
Mrs Ds policy, so it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission she paid for that policy. 
But Bank of Scotland plc has offered to pay back some of the cost of that PPI to Mrs D. 
Halifax should now make arrangements to pay Mrs D if it hasnt done so already.
Also Ive decided that because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share for 
Mrs D and Mr Hs policy, Bank of Scotland plc should pay Mrs D and Mr H an amount 
equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus 
associated interest where applicable) - if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs D and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2022. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman