DRN-2538917
The complaint
Mr H and Ms B complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) hasnt restored their flooring to 
an acceptable standard after their escape of water claim under their home insurance policy. 
So they want Aviva to replace the flooring.
Im only going to refer to Aviva in my decision but Im talking about all representatives and 
appointed experts working on its behalf.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr H and Ms B had an escape of water incident in their home. They 
made a claim on their home insurance policy. Aviva accepted the claim for the damage 
caused by the escape of water. 
Mr H and Ms B say the repaired flooring is not as good as it was before the claim. The 
quartz flecks that were visible in the flooring before the claim are no longer so visible. So 
theyve asked Aviva to replace the flooring.
Aviva says that the flooring restoration has worked well. But to acknowledge that the quartz 
flecks may not be as visible as they were before the claim, it offered £250.
Mr H and Ms B didnt accept this offer as they wanted the flooring replaced. So they brought 
their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold their complaint. She felt that all parties had agreed that the 
best course of action was to restore the flooring after the restoration test had been 
completed. Mr H and Ms B didnt agree so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H and Ms Bs policy documents describe Avivas options when settling building claims 
such as this. The policy booklet describes how building claims can be settled as follows:
Settling buildings claims
We can choose to settle your claim by:
 replacing;
 reinstating;
 repairing;
 payment.
Replacement will be on a like for like basis or based on the nearest equivalent available in 
the current market. If we are able to replace property, but we agree to make a cash 
settlement, we will only pay you what it would cost us to replace the item as if it were new.
In deciding how to settle the claim appropriately, Aviva used a number of specialist flooring 
companies. On the advice of those specialists, Aviva said that the best course of action was 
to restore the flooring and not to replace it. This was also due to the age of the property. 
Aviva noted that removing the flooring may cause other problems which wouldnt be insured 
and which could therefore be costly to Mr H and Ms B. 
I note that our investigator also mentioned in her view that another reason for the decision 
not to replace the flooring was because it had pre-existing problems with moisture and 
dampness.  Mr H and Ms B have said this had never been an issue before the claim. Ive 
seen no evidence confirming whether there were or werent pre-existing problems with 
moisture and dampness. So I wont rely on this point. It hasnt made any difference to my 
decision. 
The specialist flooring companies Aviva used to assess the flooring advised that it should be 
restored. Aviva is entitled to rely on specialists when taking a view on how to settle a claim. 
But the first attempt at restoration wasnt successful. So Aviva brought in another company 
with a different restoration process. The process was tested on the floor tiles and from the 
chain of emails Ive seen, all parties agreed the test area was successful. 
Ive also seen an email sent from Mr H dated 21 July 2020 which says, we thought it would 
be best all round to not pull up the flooring due to not knowing whats underneath and cost. 
So at this point its clear that all parties agreed the best course of action was to restore the 
flooring using the tested process, rather than replace it. Mr H himself acknowledged that 
replacing the floor could have costly consequences. 
But Mr H and Ms B have told us after our investigator issued her view that their agreement 
on the final restoration taking place was wholly dependent on us being completely satisfied 
with the outcome/finish of the flooring.  So I can see that Mr H and Ms B both expected the 
flooring to be in exactly the same condition after the treatment process that it was in before.  
But I can also see that Mr H and Ms B understood that restoration was the best option for 
them, given the likely problems a replacement might cause them. And that they agreed to 
the tested process being applied to the entire floor. So I cant say that Aviva acted unfairly 
when it declined to replace the flooring after what it and its specialists felt had been a 
successful restoration. 
The policy terms allow Aviva to settle by replacing or repairing. Its specialist advised that 
repair was appropriate. It took reasonable steps to check that a repair would be successful. 
This involved trying out more than one process. It got Mr H and Ms Bs agreement to using 
the second process after a test had successfully been carried out. I can see that the end 
result of that process didnt live up to Mr H and Ms Bs expectations. But I cant hold Aviva 
responsible for that as it was entitled to settle the claim by repair. And it carried out 
successful testing. So Aviva acted fairly and reasonably under the circumstances. 
Ive seen the before and after pictures of the flooring. From those, theres no evidence that 
the flooring hasnt been successfully restored. I appreciate Mr H and Ms B have said that 
reviewing a set of pictures cant give a true reflection of the before and after quality. They 
say there are parts of the flooring which arent anywhere near the same quality, and in fact 
some parts of the flooring are worst. But I havent seen evidence of that.
I also note that when Mr H and Ms B expressed disappointment with the reduced visibility of 
the quartz flecks in the restored flooring, Aviva offered £250. I know Mr H and Ms B have 
said that this isnt compensation, but a goodwill gesture for their disappointment in the loss 
of the quartz flecks. Mr H and Ms B have said they dont want compensation. They just want 
the flooring to be put back to its original condition. But I think this amount is reasonable reparation for the disappointment. And its in line with what this service would recommend. 
So Im not going to ask Aviva to do any more than its already done. 
I know this isnt the outcome Mr H and Ms B were hoping for. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, I cant ask Aviva to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr H and Ms Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman