DRN-1548593
 
The complaint
Mr H says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him.                   
background
This complaint is about 3 instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Mr H between April 2018 
and April 2019. Details of the 3 loans are as follows:
Loan Date started Date repaid Instalments Amount Highest repayment
1 05/04/2018 31/08/2018 3 200 106.66
2 02/09/2018 29/03/2019 6 250 96.44
3 04/04/2019 27/11/2019 12 750 158.29
Mr H deferred repayment of loan 1 twice and once for loan 2.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Hs complaint in part and thought loan 3 shouldnt have been 
given. Mr Lender didnt agree. So the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to make 
a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because The Office of Fair Trading and then latterly the FCAs the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
I agree with the adjudicator that there was nothing to indicate Mr Lender needed to do more 
when it approved loans 1 and 2. This was early on in the lending relationship between the 
two parties. The repayments for the 2 loans also would have seemed affordable based on 
what Mr H had told Mr Lender. So I dont think at this stage Mr Lender was wrong to give 
these loans to Mr H. 
However as our adjudicator explained, by loan 3 the pattern of Mr Hs borrowing showed that 
he was showing signs that he was struggling to repay. I say this because: 
 
Mr H deferred repayment of loan 1 on two occasions and repaid this loan almost two 
months after his scheduled repayment date. He then went on to also defer 
repayment of loan 2, repaying this loan a month after he was scheduled to.
 
Loan 3 was for £750. This amount was around 3 times as much as the previous 
loans Mr H took out with Mr Lender. The amount he was asking to borrow had 
increased between loan 1 and when Mr H asked for loan 3.
 
When he requested loan 3 Mr H asked for this loan to be over a longer time than his 
previous loans, taking it out over 12 months increasing the time that he would be 
making repayments to Mr Lender.
 Mr H was borrowing again shortly after he repaid a loan. Mr H asked for loan 2 only 3 
days after he repaid loan 1. He also asked for loan 3, only 6 days after he had repaid 
loan 2. This shows me that at this point, he was most likely unable to repay his 
previous loan without taking out a new one and was borrowing again to fill a gap in 
his finances. 
 
I think when I consider all of these points together, it shows that there was a significant risk 
that Mr H would be unable to meet his repayments for loan 3 because he was showing signs 
that he was struggling to repay in a sustainable way. So I think Mr Lender was wrong to 
approve loan 3. 
It follows that I dont think Mr Lender should have given loan 3. So at this point, Mr Lender 
should put things right. 
putting things right  what Mr Lender needs to do
 
refund all interest and charges Mr H paid on loan 3;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
remove any negative information about loan 3 from Mr Hs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Hs complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
(trading as Mr Lender) should pay Mr H compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman