DRN-3188778
The complaint
Mr L complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi) declined his claim under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) relating to his purchase of solar panels.
(Mr L is represented in this case by a claims management company (the CMC). Hitachi is 
represented in this complaint by its parent company, Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc.)
Background
In May 2014, Mr L was contacted by a third party to talk about purchasing a solar panel 
system (the system) to be installed at his home. After being visited by a salesman, Mr L 
decided to purchase the system and finance it through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement 
with Hitachi. The system was subsequently installed.
In June 2020 the CMC sent a letter to Hitachi, on Mr Ls behalf, alleging various 
misrepresentations by the supplier of the panels and asking for compensation under section 
75 of the Act.
Hitachi issued a final response letter in which it said that the claim was time-barred under the 
Limitation Act 1980, since Mr L had actually agreed to buy the system in May 2014, which 
was also the date of the alleged misrepresentations. More than six years had passed before 
he had brought his claim. Nevertheless, Hitachi also went on to address the merits of the 
claim, but it did not agree that any misrepresentations had been made.
Being dissatisfied with that response, Mr L brought this complaint to our service, represented 
by the CMC.
One of our adjudicators looked into this case. She thought that Hitachi had confused matters 
by first raising the limitation period but then also going on to consider the merits of the claim, 
which was ambiguous and may have caused some confusion. In response, Hitachi paid Mr L 
£300 as a gesture of good will, but still maintained that the claim was time-barred. The 
adjudicator thought that this payment was fair compensation for that error. And she agreed 
that the claim was time-barred, and that Hitachi had been entitled to rely on that in its 
defence to the claim.
The CMC did not accept that opinion. It made the following points:
Mr L hadnt known about the limitation period;
the salesman had told him that it would take six years for the system to begin to pay 
for itself, so he could not have discovered that this was untrue until after the six-year 
limitation period had expired;
by addressing the merits of the claim, Hitachi had waived its defence under the 
Limitation Act;
Hitachi had been wrong to find that no misrepresentation had been made, and so 
£300 was inadequate compensation for Mr Ls claim.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to take this opportunity to apologise to both parties for how long it has taken for 
this case to reach an ombudsman.
I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact made by one party to a second party 
which induces him to enter into a contract. The right to bring an action for that accrues  and 
the six-year limitation period begins  not when the misrepresentation is made, but when 
loss or damage is incurred as a result. In this case, Mr L signed the contract to buy the 
system on 21 May 2014. The first payment under the loan agreement fell due on 4 August, 
but as Mr L had already incurred the liability to pay money for the system on the day he 
entered into the contract, I think that the cause of action accrued in May. He first raised his 
claim with Hitachi in June 2020, more than six years later, so the usual limitation period had 
indeed expired.
There is another limitation period under section 14A of the Limitation Act, which is three 
years from the date on which the claimant first had the knowledge required for bringing an 
action (as well as having the right to bring the action), if that period would expire later than 
the usual six-year period. I agree that Mr L would not have been aware that a 
misrepresentation had been made in 2014, but I think he must have had the knowledge 
required to bring a claim within the first three years after that, and so this limitation period 
would not apply. That is because the salesman told Mr L rather more than just that the 
system would begin to pay for itself after six years. The salesman left him with a sheet which 
set out how much Mr L would have to contribute each year (shown in monthly and weekly 
amounts) for each of the first six years after the sale.
I think that after three years, Mr L could have noticed if he was having to pay more than the 
amounts shown in this document, and so he would have had the knowledge required under 
section 14A.
So I am satisfied that Hitachi was entitled to rely on its defence under the Limitation Act. And 
I do not think the position is affected by Hitachis final response letter. With respect to my 
colleague, I do not agree that this letter was ambiguous or confusing, or that Hitachi waived 
its rights under the Limitation Act or gave the impression that it was waiving them. After 
summarising its understanding of what the claim was about, Hitachis response began 
(under the heading Limitation) by setting out in clear terms that the claim was time-barred, 
and explained why. That section concluded with this sentence:
Notwithstanding our primary position above, we have responded to the substantive 
allegations made for the sake of completeness. [Emphasis mine.]
I think that sentence makes Hitachis stance quite clear. The letter then went on to address 
the merits of the claim under further section headings, but it was plain that these were 
subordinate points to Hitachis principal defence which was to rely on the limitation period. 
I dont think that stance was undermined by the rest of the letter.
I accept that Mr L didnt know about limitation periods, but I dont think that is relevant. If that 
could be relied on to avoid a limitation period, then it would make the Limitation Act 
ineffective.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman