DRN-3041106
The complaint
Mrs A complains about advice she was given to stop contributing to her defined benefit 
occupational pension scheme (DBS) and instead invest in a personal pension plan.
The advice was provided by a firm who ReAssure Limited is now responsible for. For ease, 
Ill refer to all actions as being those of ReAssure.
What happened
Mrs A had a DBS pension with her employer. In 1987, she was advised by ReAssure to opt 
out of contributing to this and instead invest in a personal pension.
In 1994, the regulator established an industry-wide review of particular pension business 
carried out between 1988 and 1994, known as the Pensions Review. In 1998, ReAssure 
carried out a Pension Review for Mrs A as part of this. 
ReAssure said Mrs A shouldnt have been advised to stop contributing to her DBS pension. 
It wrote to Mrs A offering her redress for the financial loss it thought this unsuitable advice 
had caused her, based on the regulators rules at that time. As her current scheme wouldnt 
allow payments to be reinstated, a new pension plan was set up for the redress payment to 
be paid into.
Mrs A complained to ReAssure in 2020. Shed calculated that she was significantly worse 
off, in spite of the payment of redress in 1998, than if she had stayed in the DBS. She asked 
ReAssure to make a further payment to put things right. 
ReAssure didnt uphold the complaint. It said that Mrs A had accepted its offer in 1998 in full 
and final settlement of the complaint. And it confirmed its calculations for the amount of 
redress offered were in line with the regulators guidance at the time.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs A referred the complaint to our Service. One of our 
investigators looked into it but didnt think it should be upheld. She was satisfied that the 
calculations had been carried out in line with the regulators guidance and that Mrs A had 
accepted this offer in full and final settlement of this complaint at the time. 
Mrs A didnt accept this and asked for an Ombudsman to consider her complaint. So, its 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that the advice to stop paying into the DBS was unsuitable for Mrs A. This 
was agreed by ReAssure which is why it made an offer to put things right when it reviewed 
the advice in 1998. What is now in dispute is what ReAssure did to put matters right. Mrs A 
says she has recently found out shes going to be worse off than if shed stayed within the 
DBS, even taking into account the redress paid by ReAssure in 1998.  
The Pension Review instigated by the then regulator, and which Mrs As pension was 
reviewed under, was designed to be a one-off exercise. It was the regulator who told firms 
how to offer redress in a number of scenarios. And the Pension Review calculations were 
subject to supervision and sampling at the time, by the regulator. I must be clear that we 
dont offer a calculation checking service here. However, it seems to me that Mrs A isnt 
disputing that the calculation was carried out correctly. Instead, shes unhappy that now 
shes closer to retirement, shes aware of exactly how much worse off she is and wants 
Reassure to put this right. 
Its important to note that under the industry wide Pension Review established by the 
regulator, businesses were only required to conduct the review once, using the standards 
and assumptions the regulator told them to use at the time. This is because the assumptions 
or predictions they used were considered reasonable at the time to assess the future loss. 
The regulator intended that the review would draw a line under any pension mis-selling and 
would put things right at the time. Once a business carried out a Pension Review for a 
customer, they werent required to review it again.
Unfortunately, the assumptions the regulator required firms to use in Pension Review 
calculations (for example future investment returns and annuity rates) havent been borne 
out in reality. And I do understand why Mrs A now feels she shouldve received more at the 
time. However, as Ive explained above, the Pension Review was designed to be a one-off 
exercise done using specific assumptions that were approved by the regulator. And the fact 
that these assumptions may mean that Mrs A is receiving less than she may have in 
retirement had it not been for the advice isnt something I can hold ReAssure responsible for 
now.
There is some dispute about whether Mrs A accepted the outcome of ReAssures review in 
1998. Unfortunately, ReAssure cannot provide Mrs As signed acceptance. However, its 
provided screenshots showing the letter it sent to Mrs A. This explained that if she did accept 
this in full and final settlement of the complaint, ReAssure would set up a new plan for her. 
This plan was set up shortly after this letter. Based on this, I think its more likely than not 
Mrs A did accept the offer of redress in 1998. This is a further reason why I dont think it 
appropriate to ask ReAssure to take any further action in relation to this complaint. 
Im sorry to hear of the position Mrs A finds herself in because of the 1987 advice. But that 
advice was reviewed as it was required to be by the regulator at the time, so I wont be 
asking ReAssure to do anything further.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman