DRN-3866104
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds valuation of her car 
following a claim she made on her car insurance policy. 
Mrs B is the policyholder and is represented by Mrs A who is a named driver on her policy. 
For ease, in my decision Ive referred to comments made by Mrs A as being made by Mrs B.
What happened
Mrs B had a car insurance policy with Advantage and made a claim when her car was 
stolen. Advantage valued Mrs Bs car at £25,604, but she thought its valuation was too low 
and so she complained. 
Advantage thought its valuation was fair. It said it had relied on car valuation guides to 
calculate a value for Mrs Bs car and it said its valuation was in line with the average prices it 
obtained from motor trade valuation guides.
Mrs B wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to our service. She said she couldnt 
replace her car at the price Advantage paid her. Mrs B said she carried out her own research 
and found similar cars were priced between £27,000 and £30,000, so she thinks she is out 
of pocket by at least £3,000.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought Advantages 
valuation was reasonable and he said it was in accordance with what the policy terms 
required it to pay. Our investigator carried out his own research and he thought Advantages 
offer was within the range of values the valuation guides provided. 
Mrs B didnt accept our investigators opinion. She says she couldnt buy a car of the same 
specification with the settlement Advantage gave her and she was forced to buy a car of 
lesser quality.  
As an agreement wasnt reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator and for similar 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and taken reasonable steps 
to ensure a fair valuation was reached. Under the terms of Mrs Bs policy, Advantage must 
pay her the market value of the car at the time of the loss.
The market value is defined in the policy as, The cost of replacing your Car in the United 
Kingdom at the time the loss or damage occurred with one of the same make, model, age 
and condition... Your Insurer may use publications such as Glass's Guide to assess the 
Market Value and will make any necessary allowances for the mileage and condition of your 
Car and the circumstances in which you bought it.
Mrs B says she couldnt replace her car with a similar one for the amount Advantage paid 
her. The valuation of a used car isnt an exact science, and its standard practice for the 
industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated market value of a car. And its not 
unreasonable that it does so, as the valuations the guides give are based on national 
research on likely selling prices of similar cars with similar age and mileage for sale at the 
time of loss. 
Advantage provided us with evidence of the valuations it obtained from the two guides it 
used, and these valued Mrs Bs car at £25,987 and £24,140. Advantages valuation of 
£25,604 is in the top end of the range of figures it obtained from the two guides it used.
Our investigator consulted a third valuation guide, which produced a figure of £26,749. Wed 
consider an offer somewhere between the three values (excluding any outliers) fair. Even if I 
were to consider the average of the three guide values, which works out to around £25,600, 
this is still in line with Advantages offer.  
Ive looked at the adverts Mrs B provided. I also carried out my own research and looked at 
adverts for similar cars currently available. And I found most of the cars were priced around 
£25,000 to £27,000, several of the cars I found were of a slightly higher engine power or had 
a lower mileage than Mrs Bs car did. 
In any case, I should explain that we dont tend to find adverts as reliable as the motor 
guides and the reason for this is because it is difficult to know what a car will eventually sell 
for from the advert; and advertised prices can vary widely  and variations, such as age and 
mileage, can significantly impact the eventual price a car is sold for. There may be occasions 
where we do look at adverts and this can be where we arent able to get a result from the 
guides, for example where the car is old or a rare model. I dont think this was the case here. 
However, I also considered examples of similar cars on sale around the time of the incident 
and this showed cars were priced within the range of figures produced by the guides. So, Im 
satisfied the valuations produced by the guides fairly reflect market prices for Mrs Bs car at 
the time of the incident. Therefore, I find it was reasonable for Advantage to rely on the 
figures it obtained from the guides in its calculations. 
As I mentioned above, we usually find a fair valuation would fall within the range of the guide 
prices. As Advantages offer falls within the range of values given by the guides and the 
prices Ive seen advertised, I think it has taken reasonable steps to reach a fair valuation in 
this case. I know this isnt the answer Mrs B hoped for, but Im satisfied Advantages offer is 
fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman