DRN-3266020
The complaint
Miss I complains that Lloyds Bank PLC treated her unfairly. She says her accounts were 
wrongly referred to its collections department and that an account application was wrongly 
declined.
What happened
Miss I received a letter in August 2019 from Lloyds collections department. It said she had 
contacted it and, as a result, it had stopped fees on her overdraft. It asked Miss I to get in 
contact with details of her income and expenditure and warned her that her credit reference 
file might be affected.
Miss I knew her accounts werent overdrawn, so she contacted Lloyds. Miss I had a joint 
account with a third party who had told that bank he was in financial difficulties. As a result, 
Lloyds referred both parties accounts to its collections department which, it said, allowed it 
to offer Miss I support if needed. It said her credit file had not been affected. It said her 
application for an account could be declined for a number of reasons, including if her 
account, or someone she is financially associated to, has, or had an account with its 
collections department. It suggested Miss I speak with one of its advisors before making an 
application.
Lloyds accepted it should have provided better service when Miss I complained and that she 
was given the wrong information when she was told adverse information had been recorded 
on her credit file. It paid her £86 to cover the cost of her calls and the inconvenience shed 
been caused.
Miss I referred her complaint to us. She explained her vulnerabilities at the time and the 
impact Lloyds mistake had had on her.
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds should have referred Miss Is sole accounts to its 
collections department. And that it made a mistake when it wrote to her to say that her 
account was in an unarranged overdraft. He thought Lloyds should pay Miss I an additional 
£100 compensation and remove any internal and external negative markers that had been 
added.
Lloyds said no adverse information had been recorded on Miss Is credit reference file. It 
said any internal information would be regularly reviewed and wouldnt affect Miss I going 
forward. It agreed to pay the additional £100 recommended by the investigator and it 
credited Miss Is account.
Miss I didnt agree that the additional £100 was enough to compensate her for the emotional 
distress Lloyds caused which led to her having to undergo an emergency medical 
procedure. And she said there was adverse information recorded on Lloyds internal files for 
around a year, which would have been shared between all Lloyds brands.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The joint party to one of Miss Is accounts had his accounts referred to Lloyds collection 
department. In the circumstances, I think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in referring the 
joint account to its collections department as well. I say this because of the agreed terms 
and conditions which cover the right of set off and with which both parties are familiar.
But the right of set off did not extend to Miss Is sole accounts. The joint account had been 
well managed and was not overdrawn. So Miss I did not owe Lloyds any money. And shed 
given Lloyds no indication that she was in any financial difficulty. Her sole accounts were all 
in credit with no evidence that she needed any support from Lloyds. I do not find Lloyds 
acted fairly or reasonably when it referred Miss Is accounts to its collections department. In 
its final response to her complaint, Lloyds said her accounts would exit its collections 
system. Although this seems to be because the joint account holder removed himself from 
the joint account, rather than because it accepted it had done anything wrong.
Lloyds sent Miss I a letter saying her current account had an overdrawn balance when it 
didnt. And suggesting that shed been in touch with it when she hadnt. It sent another letter 
around a month later saying that it had suspended its fees whilst she was in financial 
difficulties and that it was now charging overdraft fees again. I find these letters should not 
have been sent. As noted above, Miss I had not experienced any financial difficulties, her 
accounts were in credit, and her loan payments were up to date.
During this time, Miss I wanted to open a second current account, but her application was 
declined. Lloyds said it wasnt obliged to open an account and that it may have been 
declined for a number of reasons. From what its told us, and from the information it held in 
its records, it looks more likely than not that the account application was declined because 
Miss Is accounts had been referred to its collections department. Ive found her accounts 
shouldnt have been referred. It follows that I find her account application was unfairly 
declined.
Ive found Lloyds made some mistakes and that it treated Miss I unfairly. I need to consider 
what it needs to do to put things right.
I dont find Miss I made a financial loss as a result of Lloyds actions. And I dont find theres 
any action Lloyds needs to take to put things right. I say this because Miss Is accounts were 
removed from its collections department after the joint account was transferred into Miss Is 
sole name; Im satisfied that Lloyds didnt record any adverse information on Miss Is credit 
file; and I cant order Lloyds to accept Miss Is account application. 
But Lloyds does need to compensate Miss I for the distress and inconvenience its mistakes 
caused Miss I.
Lloyds has already paid Miss I £36 to compensate her for the cost of her calls, £50 for being 
given the wrong information about her credit file, and £100 following our investigators 
conclusion that it was upsetting for Miss I to receive the correspondence from Lloyds about 
her account being overdrawn and her accounts being referred to its collections department.
Ive considered this very carefully. Miss I was upset to receive the letters and worried about 
the impact the referral of her accounts to the collections department would have on her. This 
was of particular concern to her because of the nature of her employment. But, taking everything into account, I think £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused, plus 
compensation for the cost of her phone calls, is fair and reasonable. 
In coming to that conclusion, I have considered the medical emergency Miss I suffered and 
the longer term consequences  I will not detail that here for confidentiality reasons, but 
I want her to know that Ive fully understood what shes told us. It would always be difficult for 
me to say that Lloyds could be held directly liable for such a difficult and complicated 
medical situation, like the one Miss I has told us about. Miss I has provided a letter from her 
GP which sets out what happened, in support of what shes told us. I appreciate her sharing 
this sensitive information and I sympathise with the clearly distressing experience she went 
through. Im sorry to disappoint Miss I, but what the GP has said does not allow me to 
conclude with certainty that the medical difficulties Miss I faced were directly and solely 
caused by Lloyds actions. But this isnt to say that Lloyds actions here wouldnt have had 
an impact on C at what was already a difficult time. However, whilst I have great sympathy 
for what she went through, I dont find I can fairly increase the compensation award.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Miss I 
an additional £100 compensation. I understand it has already credited this sum to her 
account, so I dont require it to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman