DRN-2040266
The complaint
Mr B complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, and their decision to 
block and re-issue his credit card.
What happened
In November 2019, Barclaycard notified Mr B that his credit card was due to be blocked and 
re-issued after they received information from VISA and Mastercard. The block was carried 
out on 2 January 2020.
Mr B was unhappy with this, as he felt hed carefully managed the use of his credit card 
carefully for several years and hadnt reported any suspicious activity. Hed also memorised 
the card number that was due to be blocked and thought it would be inconvenient to receive 
a new card with a new number. So, he raised a complaint.
Barclaycard responded and upheld his complaint in part. They explained theyd received 
information from both VISA and Mastercard that suggested his card may have been 
compromised. They explained they couldnt go into any further detail about this information 
as it may compromise ongoing investigations. They acknowledged Mr B wanted to contact 
VISA directly about this and provided the relevant website for Mr B to find contact details if 
he wanted to pursue that further.
Because of the above, they thought theyd acted reasonably by blocking and re-issuing his 
card to protect Mr Bs account from any fraudulent activity. So, they didnt think they needed 
to do anything further for that aspect of the complaint. But they did offer Mr B £150 to 
recognise their failure to handle his complaint promptly and effectively.
Mr B didnt accept this offer. He was unhappy that Barclaycard couldnt give any further 
information on the reasoning for his card being blocked. He was also unhappy that VISA 
were unable to provide this information when he contacted them directly. He didnt 
understand why Barclaycard allowed him access to the card that needed to be blocked for 
more than a month if he was at risk of fraudulent activity. So, he wanted to be compensated 
for the inconvenience Barclaycards decision had caused. As Mr B remained unhappy, he 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought Barclaycard had 
acted fairly and in Mr Bs best interests when blocking the card. He thought Barclaycards 
explanation was fair and wouldnt have expected them to provide any further detail as it may 
risk investigations that were ongoing. He recognised the inconvenience Mr B had been 
caused but didnt think it was fair to hold Barclaycard at fault for this. So, he didnt think they 
needed to do anything further.
Mr B didnt agree. He didnt think it was fair for Barclaycard to block his card without what he 
felt was a proper explanation. He also explained hed had similar issued with a current 
account hed held with them and thought there was a pattern of mistakes being made. 
Finally, he queried why our investigator hadnt discussed the £150 offer hed turned down in 
Barclaycards final response.
Our investigator explained this complaint was separate to the issue hed had with his current 
account so that wasnt considered as part of his decision. And he explained the £150 was 
offered by Barclaycard to recognise their failures when handling Mr Bs complaint, which was 
an unregulated activity that fell outside of our jurisdiction. But he confirmed this offer was still 
available for Mr B to accept. As Mr B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator.
First, I want to recognise the inconvenience Mr B has suffered. Ive no doubt that he 
wouldve been left confused and frustrated when he was made aware his card was being 
blocked and re-issued. I can appreciate hed become used to his original cards details and, 
as hed not reported any suspicious activity, he didnt see any need for them to be changed. 
And when Barclaycard were unable to provide a specific reason, I can understand why he 
felt hed experienced this inconvenience unnecessarily. But, for me to say Barclaycard acted 
unfairly, Id need to see that when they blocked and re-issued Mr Bs card, they were acting 
unfairly or outside of the terms and conditions of his account. And in this situation, I dont 
think they were.
Ive first looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Bs account. These explain that 
Barclaycard may send you another card as a replacement or extra card at any time. It may 
have different features from your existing card, including a different number. The terms and 
conditions also go on to explain that they may prevent or limit the use of the account to 
protect the security of your account.
Barclaycard explained in their final response to Mr Bs complaint that theyd received 
information from VISA and Mastercard that suggests Mr Bs card may have been 
compromised. Id expect Barclaycard to act on this information and take reasonable steps to 
ensure they protected Mr Bs account from this. Had they failed to do so, this may have left 
Mr Bs card and account vulnerable to fraudulent activity, which may have had severe 
financial implications on Mr B. So, while I understand the block and re-issue was 
inconvenient, I think Barclaycard were taking these steps in Mr Bs best interests. And, I 
think Barclaycard were acting in line with the terms and conditions of the account. So, I dont 
think theyve done anything wrong.
 
But Im aware Mr B is also unhappy with Barclaycards explanation as to why the card 
needed to be blocked. And hes unhappy he was directed to VISA who were also unable to 
provide an explanation.
While I appreciate Mr B wanted a specific reason to satisfy his concerns, I wouldnt expect 
Barclaycard to provide this. I think the final response Barclaycard issued provides enough of 
an explanation, making Mr B aware there was a potential compromise of his card. In these 
situations, businesses such as Barclaycard will not disclose specific details to members of 
the public, as it can impact investigations that are being made into the area of concern. So, I 
cant say theyve done anything wrong by not providing further detail. Also, from reading the 
final response, I can see Barclaycard provided VISAs details at the request of Mr B. And I 
dont think Barclaycard can be held responsible for VISAs decision not to disclose any 
information to Mr B. So, I cant say theyve acted unfairly by doing so.Finally, I wanted to comment on Mr Bs argument regarding Barclaycards decision to allow 
him to use the compromised card for a period of time before the block was placed. I can 
understand why Mr B sees this as contradictory. But Barclaycard have confirmed they allow 
the card to be used whilst the replacement is being sent to the customer as otherwise, theyd 
have no access to the funds in their account. 
By noting the account that a block and re-issue was needed, I think this flagged Mr Bs 
account as more at risk for potentially fraudulent activity. So, this wouldve protected him 
against any unusual account activity during the time the compromised card was available to 
use. And Mr B was still able to access the funds until the new card was received. So, I dont 
think this decision shows Barclaycards system to be flawed and instead shows them taking 
fair steps to protect Mr Bs account and limit the inconvenience to him.
So, although I understand Mr Bs frustrations and appreciate this isnt the outcome he was 
hoping for, I think Barclaycards decision to block and re-issue his card was a fair one and I 
dont think they need to do anything further,
Im aware Barclaycard offered Mr B £150 to recognise the failure to handle his complaint 
effectively. Im aware this offer is still open to Mr B and its his choice whether to accept this 
moving forward.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC, trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman