DRN-4345964
The complaint
Mr C and Miss M complain that LDNfinance Solutions Limited (trading as LDNfinance) gave 
them poor mortgage advice. They ask for compensation for their financial loss.
What happened
Mr C and Miss M wanted to move home and took mortgage advice from LDNfinance.
LDNfinance recommended that Mr C and Miss M apply for a new mortgage. Mr C and 
Miss M say it didnt advise them to port their existing mortgage or make them aware they 
might have to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) when they repaid the existing 
mortgage. As a result, they paid an ERC of about £11,000 and lost the benefit of the interest 
rate product with their previous lender.
LDNfinance said Mr C had told it there were no ERCs payable and its advice was provided 
on this basis. LDNfinance said Mr C and Miss Ms solicitor should have checked the amount 
needed to repay the existing mortgage before exchanging contracts. It offered a goodwill 
payment of £2,000 and to refund its £750 fee.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties explaining why I thought LDNfinances offer to 
settle the complaint was fair. Both parties agreed. In the circumstances, I see no reason to 
change my findings or outcome from my provisional decision  which were substantially as 
set out below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C spoke to LDNfinance in early April 2022 and it carried out a fact find and issued a 
recommendation letter. Mr C and Miss M told LDNfinance they wanted a mortgage of about 
£550,000 for their purchase and would have £300,00 equity available from their sale.
LDNfinance recommended applying for a mortgage with a new lender. LDNfinance says 
Mr C confirmed there were no ERCs on their current mortgage and advice was given on that 
basis. Mr C says he doesnt recall being asked if there was an ERC. The copy of the fact find 
provided to us doesnt record Mr C being asked whether there was an ERC.
LDNfinance submitted a mortgage application on behalf of Mr C and Miss M in mid May 
2022 and the new lender issued a mortgage offer on 19 June 2022.
Mr C and Miss Ms previous lender issued a redemption statement on 13 July 2022. This 
was after theyd exchanged contracts, with completion agreed for 18 July 2022. The 
redemption statement said an ERC of about £11,000 was payable.
Did LDNfinance make an error?
LDNfinance was responsible for gathering information about Mr C and Miss Ms aims and 
circumstances so that it could recommend a suitable mortgage. Id expect it to take into 
account the cost of any ERC, and the possibility of making a porting application to an 
existing lender.
We cant now know for certain that a porting application would have been successful, as this 
would depend on the property meeting the lenders criteria and Mr C and Miss M passing 
affordability checks. However, Mr C and Miss Ms previous lender said there was no reason 
that it was aware of that would have caused it to decline an application.
I appreciate that, if Mr C said no ERC was payable, LDNfinance might have assumed Mr C 
and Miss M didnt have an active product to port. This would explain, and be consistent with, 
it not discussing porting with them. However, while LDNfinance says it asked Mr C if there 
was an ERC, it cant provide evidence to support this.
Why I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
LDNfinance offered compensation of £2,000 and to waive its brokers fee. I dont intend to 
order it to pay further compensation. This is because, on balance, I dont think LDNfinance is 
solely responsible for Mr C and Miss M incurring the ERC and losing the benefit of their 
interest rate product. I should explain that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
We asked Mr C and Miss Ms previous lender for information about their mortgage. In late 
2018 Mr C and Miss M took out a 25-year £420,000 mortgage with a two-year product which 
expired on 30 November 2020. They took out a five-year interest rate product on 7 
December 2020. The five-year product had an ERC which was set out in the mortgage offer, 
in the letter confirming the rate had been applied and in the annual statement sent to Mr C 
and Miss M in late 2021.
Between late 2018 and late 2020 Mr C and Miss Ms mortgage balance reduced by about 
£53,000 to about £367,000. This suggests they made overpayments. To avoid incurring an 
ERC theyd have needed to make these payments within their annual 10% overpayment 
limit, or between the first product expiring and them taking out the new product on 7 
December 2020. Given the amount of the overpayments, I think its likely theyd have 
checked this before making the payments.
Mr C and Miss Ms previous lender issued a digital decision in principle to them in January 
2022. This suggests they considered staying with their lender and possibly porting their 
mortgage, although they didnt go on to make an application to the lender.
Mr C and Miss Ms previous lender issued a redemption statement on 4 April 2022. This said 
the amount required to repay the mortgage on 21 April 2022 would be about £361,000, 
which included an ERC of about £12,000. The redemption statement was requested by Mr C 
and Miss Ms solicitor in March 2022 for information purposes only. This was before 
LDNfinance recommended a mortgage to Mr C and Miss M. 
It was unfortunate if the solicitor didnt share information about the redemption amount and 
the ERC with Mr C and Miss M. Mr C and Miss M say they havent raised concerns with their 
solicitor, as they say the error was made by LDNfinance. They gave us contact details and 
consent to get in touch with their solicitor. Our investigator tried to get in contact with the 
solicitor but they didnt respond.
LDNfinance asked Mr C and Miss M for details of their current mortgage and credit facilities on 6 May 2022. Mr C says there was an error in the email which they needed to correct 
urgently and this led to them forgetting to respond to the request for details of the mortgage.
LDNfinance asked again for details of the mortgage later that day. It submitted the mortgage 
application on 9 May 2022 with details of the mortgage to be confirmed.
While LDNfinance could have delayed making a mortgage application until Mr C and Miss M 
provided information about their existing mortgage, I dont think it would have been fair and 
reasonable to do so. Interest rates were rising and a delay could have resulted in Mr C and 
Miss M missing out on a product.
In fairness, LDNfinance could only offer advice to Mr C and Miss M based on the information 
it received from them. While LDNfinance cant provide evidence it asked about the ERC it 
did provide evidence that it asked for details of their existing mortgage at least twice. Its 
unfortunate that Mr C and Miss M didnt respond to this request as it might have provided an 
opportunity for LDNfinance to identify the ERC and the possibility of porting their existing 
product.
Mr C says they were aware of ERCs in principle, but not that this applied to them. As I said, 
Mr C and Miss M had made overpayments and, most likely, planned these to avoid incurring 
an ERC. Their previous lender set out the ERC on documents sent to them.
When discussing two, three or five-year fixed rate products LDNfinance said these products 
have early repayment charges, which are quite sizeable, during the initial 3/5 years.
Miss M and Mr C had taken out a five-year product in December 2020. On 9 May 2022 Miss 
M asked LDNfinance if the mortgage it recommended had exit fees/additional costs they 
should be aware of.
I think all this ought to have been enough to prompt Miss M and Mr C to check if they had an 
ERC. They could have checked their mortgage documents. Or they could have asked their 
lender or solicitor. If theyd provided information about the mortgage to LDNfinance it could 
have looked into this for them.
LDNfinance made an error when it either didnt ask, or didnt record asking, whether Mr C 
and Miss Ms existing mortgage had an ERC. It could have asked again for information 
about their existing mortgage before proceeding with the application. This might have 
resulted in it making a recommendation that cost Mr C and Miss M less. But taking all of the 
circumstances into account, I dont think its fair to find that LDNfinance is solely responsible 
for Mr C and Miss M incurring the ERC and losing the benefit of the lower interest rate.
Based on the evidence currently available, I think LDNfinances offer of a goodwill payment 
of £2,000 and to refund its £750 fee is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. While I 
know Mr C and Miss M will be disappointed, I dont think its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to require LDNfinance to pay compensation for the ERC or the higher interest 
rate they are paying.
My final decision
My decision is that LDNfinance Solutions Limited (trading as LDNfinance) should refund its 
£750 fee and pay £2,000 to Mr C and Miss M as it offered to do (to the extent it hasnt 
already done this).Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman