DRN-1700560
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 1991 in connection with a joint mortgage. Mrs C and Mr C say Lloyds Bank PLC 
(trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester Building Society) mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
Mrs C and Mr C took out a PPI policy in connection with their mortgage. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy which offered accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They 
complain they didnt request it; they were told to buy the PPI as it would help them get the 
mortgage. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Mrs C and Mr C disagreed with 
our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs and Mr Cs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Lloyds Bank should have made Mrs C and Mr C aware they had a choice in buying the 
policy. They say they were told to buy the PPI to get the mortgage. 
There is limited information about this PPI sale, so I will be deciding what I think is likely to 
have happened, given the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
Lloyds Bank produced Mrs Cs and Mr Cs mortgage application and their mortgage 
agreement. I looked carefully at the mortgage application. I can see they or the adviser 
ticked a box indicating they were interested in getting a PPI quotation. I think it was possible 
not to tick the box and so decline any interest in PPI. I also looked at the Mortgage Loan 
Agreement which does not mention PPI; and it does not suggest that they had to buy PPI to 
get the mortgage. So I think there is enough on the application form to show PPI was an 
optional product which they could decline, and I havent seen anything on the documents to 
show PPI was a condition of the mortgage.
Lloyds Bank says the PPI sale was advised which means the PPI information had to be clear 
enough for Mrs C and Mr C to make an informed decision and the policy had to be suitable 
for their needs. 
I think the policy probably was suitable for them because they were both eligible to buy PPI, 
it seemed affordable at the time and they were not affected by the main things the policy 
didnt cover (the exclusions).I noted Mrs C and Mr C said they would both get employee benefits, were in secure jobs and 
were covered by other sources of income  like savings and life insurance. But the policy 
could have paid out for a maximum of 12 months on a successful claim. This would have 
been in addition to and probably for longer than their employee benefits and would have 
saved their other incomes for other expenses and other insurance events. The mortgage 
was a long term financial commitment secured on their home, so I think having the security 
that their mortgage repayments would be made if either was unable to work would have 
been important to them. So I dont think their employee benefits and other incomes made the 
policy unsuitable.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information Lloyds Bank gave Mrs C 
and Mr C about the PPI cost, benefits and exclusions wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
But having decided they chose to take out the PPI - it looks like they wanted this type of 
cover. And  for the reasons Ive explained above - it looks like the policy would have been 
useful for them if something went wrong. And I have already noted they were not affected by 
the things the policy did not cover. So I think they most likely had enough information about 
the cost, benefits and the exclusions at the time of the sale and I think its unlikely that more 
information would have put them off from buying it.
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mrs C and Mr C. Its always difficult 
to decide a complaint on limited information. But Ive thought very carefully about what they 
said and about what Lloyds Bank said. And I dont think  on balance  I can fairly and 
reasonably uphold their complaint.
Due to the current circumstances and postal restrictions in our office, I have sent this 
decision by email to Mrs C and Mr C and not by letter as requested. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman