DRN-3447882
The complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited are pursuing him for an 
outstanding debt and about how they recorded a claim on his commercial vehicle insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr M has a policy with Admiral which is paid for on a monthly basis. One of the monthly 
payments hadnt left Mr Ms account so he called Admiral in April 2021 to pay it. As the 
payment wasnt showing as unsuccessful on Admirals side, they asked Mr M to call back in 
a few days once it was confirmed the payment had been unsuccessful. 
Admiral didnt receive the payment and therefore wrote to Mr M to let him know. As the 
payment still hadnt been received Admiral wrote to Mr M to let him know his policy would be 
cancelled if payment wasnt received in the next seven days. As no payment was received 
Admiral cancelled the policy and asked for the outstanding amount owed.
Mr M didnt think this was fair and complained. He said he hadnt been using his van at the 
time due to Covid and so didnt think it was fair he paid for insurance he wasnt using. He 
also said hed discovered Admiral had recorded a fault claim on his previous policy which 
meant he was having to pay more for insurance. He also said he thought Admiral had 
charged him too much for his policy. 
Admiral reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said that Mr M had put a claim in 
for damage to his van in June 2019, and while the claim had been rejected Admiral had still 
incurred costs which they had to record against the claim. Because of this, Admiral didnt 
think they had done anything wrong in how they recorded the claim. Admiral also said the 
amount outstanding was correct as payments had been missed. They also said they werent 
aware Mr M wasnt using his van during Covid and said if theyd been made aware then they 
could have looked at how best to support him. Admiral also didnt agree think theyd 
overcharged him when reviewing how theyd calculated the risk. Mr M didnt agree and 
referred his complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He found that 
Admiral had correctly cancelled Mr Ms policy in line with the terms and conditions as the 
premiums hadnt been paid. He also didnt think Admiral had done anything wrong in how 
they recorded or dealt with the claim, or how much theyd charged for his policy. Our 
Investigator also didnt find anything to show Mr M had made Admiral aware he wasnt using 
his van during Covid. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said hed had to repair his van himself so didnt think it was fair a claim 
was recorded. He also said Admiral had his van for too long which meant he couldnt work. 
He also didnt think it was fair to be charged the full amount while his van was off the road 
because of Covid. 
As Mr M didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made a number of detailed points. Were an informal dispute resolution service set 
up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue in turn. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr M. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, 
its remit and my role in it. 
Claim on previous policy 
Its not in dispute that Mr M made a claim on his previous policy or what happened. What is 
in dispute is how Admiral have recorded the claim. Admiral have recorded the costs they 
incurred for recovery of Mr Ms van, an engineers report and for storage. Admiral need to 
record these cost and it therefore means the claim is recorded as whats known as a fault 
claim. This is because the costs werent able to be recovered from a third party, rather than 
because Mr M was at fault for what happened. I can understand why Mr M believes this to 
be unfair as his claim wasnt successful but as Admiral incurred these costs because of the 
claim Mr M made Im not persuaded theyve done anything wrong in recording them.
Ive also considered that Mr M said Admiral had his van for too long when he claimed. I can 
see the van was inspected around the middle of June 2019 but then wasnt returned to Mr M 
until the beginning of August 2019. I appreciate this seems like a long period of time when 
Admiral would have known the outcome from the initial inspection. However, Im also aware 
the initial inspection wasnt accepted by Mr M and so this delayed things. Im therefore not 
persuaded Admiral caused unnecessary delays which would be fair and reasonable for them 
to compensate Mr M for. I know this will be disappointing for Mr M but Im not going to tell 
Admiral to do any more in relation to the claim on his previous policy. 
Cancellation of policy
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy say:
We can cancel your policy at any time by sending 7 days notice in 
writing to your last known address if:.
you fail to pay the premium due for your policy 
Admiral wrote to Mr M after they didnt receive the missed payment. Ive noted that in this 
letter they also asked about whether Covid had affected Mr Ms ability to pay and asked him 
to let them know if they could support him. I can also see Admiral then wrote to Mr M just 
under a week later to let him know that if payment wasnt received then theyd cancel his 
policy in seven days. As payment wasnt received Admiral cancelled the policy and wrote to 
Mr M to let him know.  
From reviewing the letters Im satisfied they were clear and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. As Admiral werent made aware of any issues with Mr Ms ability to 
pay due to Covid, they didnt make any adjustments to his policy. I understand Mr M thinks 
Admiral should have done a full review; however, Im not persuaded it would be fair and 
reasonable for Admiral to assume to know how Covid has affected a policy holder. And when 
taking into account their letter asked Mr M to let them know if they could support him, Im 
satisfied Admiral acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. I can also see the amount Admiral is asking Mr M to pay are the missed payments for his 
policy. And considering I dont think Admiral need to do anything different due to Mr M not 
using his van during Covid. It follows that Im not persuaded Admiral are being unfair in 
asking Mr M to pay what is owed. 
Ive also considered Mr Ms point about his new insurer charging less for his policy than 
Admiral did. Just because one insurer charges a different amount to another doesnt mean 
theyre acting unfairly. If Im satisfied Admiral is assessing the premium in the same that they 
would for other customers, I wouldnt be persuaded theyve treated Mr M unfairly. Admiral 
have shown me the difference in premiums they charged Mr M for his 2019 and 2020 
policies along with the reasons for setting the premium at the level they did. Im therefore not 
persuaded Admiral acted unfairly by charging Mr M what they did or that theyre treating him 
differently to other customers. Im therefore not going to tell Admiral to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman