DRN-3640647
The complaint
Ms S complains that Bankfoot Financial Services Ltd (BFS) moved her pension several 
times to different providers. She says they acted without her knowledge or consent.
What happened
In July 2016, Ms S contacted BFS to ask for their help to drawdown her tax-free lump sum 
from her employers group personal pension (GPP). She says she wanted to use the 
money for some home repairs. At the time she was 73 and still working. Both she and her 
employer were contributing to her work pension. Ms S says she was intending to retire at 75.
In August 2016, BFS advised her to transfer her GPP with a value of around £76,000 and a 
smaller pension worth around £2,800 to a Zurich Retirement Account. After taking a 25% 
tax-free lump sum of around £18,700, the rest was recommended to be left invested in cash.
A couple of weeks after the transfer, another drawdown payment of £13,000 (£8,700 after 
tax) was made to Ms S.
The adviser had also recommended Ms S should invest £25,000 into a Prudential  
Investment Plan (100% into a cautious fund). It was recorded on the application form that the 
funds were raised from tax free cash from pension. Ms S says the adviser asked her for a 
cheque for £25,000, but as he couldnt explain what this was for she refused to do this. BFS 
has confirmed this investment never went ahead. 
Several months later, in April 2017, BFS advised Ms S to switch her pension with Zurich to 
Prudential.
Ms S says she didnt ask for a further drawdown of £13,000 in 2016 or for her pension to be 
moved to either Zurich or Prudential. She said she only ever asked the adviser to help her 
release her tax-free cash in 2016. Ms S says the other transactions were done without her 
consent and when she noticed this had happened it was too late to reverse the actions.
Ms S says she paid unnecessary charges to the adviser and by being taken out of her GPP 
her pension didnt continue to benefit from employer contributions.
As a result she says she is left with a much reduced pension, had to continue working and is 
unable to retire.
Ms S complained to BFS who rejected her complaint. They said Ms S was advised 
appropriately and there had been several meetings with her where the advice had been 
discussed and agreed. All relevant documents were signed by her.
One of our investigators considered Ms Ss complaint and upheld it. He said there was no 
good reason for Ms S to transfer her pensions to Zurich and later on to Prudential. The GPP 
provider confirmed that Ms S could have taken tax free cash from her pension and leave the 
rest invested if this is what she wanted to do. 
He also thought Ms S should have been advised against taking another lump sum payment 
which led to higher tax payments and a reduction in her Money Purchase Annual Allowance, 
which given she was still working and contributing to her pension should have been 
mentioned. He thought if this had been explained she wouldnt have proceeded.
BFS said they had advised her to re-join her workplace pension. However there was no 
evidence this was explored with Ms S and assistance offered. Her payslips show that no 
further contributions were paid after the pension transfer in 2016. So the investigator thought 
BFS should compensate her for the lost employer contributions.
BFS disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is conflicting or incomplete, Ill decide what I think happened on the 
balance of probabilities based on the information I have.
Ms S says she never agreed to anything other than releasing her tax-free cash from the 
GPP and I dont doubt that these are her honest recollections. Ive also considered that she 
provided evidence she was at a doctors appointment on one of the days some papers were 
signed in July 2016. She says she didnt go home after the appointment and would not have 
been able to sign those papers. I understand she strongly believes the adviser acted 
dishonestly.
Contrary to this the adviser says Ms S agreed to all of these transactions. And Ive seen 
signed copies of various documents including application forms, client agreements which set 
out the fees that would be charged and a letter from Ms S asking for an additional £13,000 to 
be released from the pension. Ive also seen the suitability reports which were addressed to 
Ms S.
I dont know what exactly was discussed between Ms S and the adviser and Ive got 
conflicting testimonies. Having considered everything, I dont think its likely the adviser 
forged Ms Ss signatures on the majority of the paperwork and created a false paper trail. 
On balance, I think its more likely than not that Ms S did sign those papers. Ms S says she 
was surprised to hear from Zurich after the transfer as she thought she would receive her 
funds from the GPP provider. However, Ive seen a letter sent from Zurich to her directly on 
26 July 2016 which welcomed her to her Zurich portfolio and set out the expected funds from 
the GPP and her other pension. This was around a month before the funds were transferred, 
so she could have stopped this if this was something she hadnt agreed to. She also 
received a letter from her other personal pension provider which said before her pension 
could be transferred they required a transfer payment form. Ms S signed this in early August. 
So whilst Ms S now says she didnt know her pension would be transferred elsewhere, I 
think she likely was aware and had consented at the time. However, I acknowledge there is 
a possibility she might not have fully understood what exactly she was signing or what she 
was agreeing to at the time. 
I next considered whether the advice that Ms S was given was suitable.
Transfer of Ms Ss existing GPP and small personal pension to Zurich
Theres no dispute that Ms S wanted to access her tax-free cash from the GPP. However, she didnt need to transfer her pension for this. The GPP provider confirmed to our 
investigator that until the age of 75, Ms S could have taken her tax-free cash and either 
taken an annuity or kept her remaining funds in a drawdown plan. I acknowledge BFS says 
they received different information, however I havent seen that any of this was explored at 
the time of the advice. And I think its reasonable for me to rely on the information this 
Service was given upon enquiry.
So based on the information I have I dont think Ms S needed to transfer her pensions in 
2016 in order to access benefits more flexibly. And BFSs argument in the suitability report 
that the GPP offered a too limited investment choice is somewhat puzzling when the 
investment recommendation was to put the funds in cash. I note that Ms S was later 
invested in a lower risk Vanguard fund. I havent seen evidence how and when this was 
chosen or whether Ms S had any input on this. However, in any event, I cant see Ms S 
needed a wider investment range (she was a low risk investor without much experience). 
Im also not persuaded that it was suitable advice for Ms S to access her pensions for tax-
free cash at all. There is again conflicting evidence what Ms S wanted the lump sum for. Ms 
S told us she wanted the funds for home repairs and a new car. However, the fact find which 
was completed in 2016 noted under advice considerations: son and daughter lump sum 
equally. BFS says Ms S wanted £10,000 for each of her children, however no sums were 
mentioned in the fact find or suitability report.
Whatever the purpose of the funds was, the adviser was giving Ms S advice, so he shouldnt 
have just acted as an order taker but was required to advise her on what was suitable and in 
her best interest. 
Ms S was still working and contributing to her GPP, so I think the adviser should have 
considered in the first instance whether she could use other funds to release some cash. 
The suitability report recorded that Ms S had £40,617.14 available for investment (around 
£15,600 in a cash ISA and the rest (£25,000) in a deposit-based account following the taking 
of a tax-free cash lump sum. 
The £25,000 which BFS advised to put into a Prudential Investment Plan were recorded to 
come from tax-free cash from a pension. The investigator considered that it was likely the 
£25,000 were planned to be made up from the tax-free cash lump sum and the additional 
lump sum withdrawal from the GPP. BFS said this wasnt correct and the funds intended to 
be used were £19,000 tax-free cash and £6,000 from savings.
Whatever way I look at this, it seems BFS was intending to direct the tax-free cash, which 
apparently was meant to be used for home repairs or lump sums to Ms Ss children, to 
another investment. I dont see how Ms S would benefit from taking money from a tax-
efficient pension environment and reinvest it elsewhere, particularly as the investment risk in 
both arrangements was similar.
Taking the tax-free cash lump sum aside, Ms S had considerable amounts in two cash ISAs 
(around £87,000) which she could have used instead if she needed some funds to pay her 
children or use on her home. I cant see that this was explored.
Overall, I think transferring her workplace pension and accessing her tax-free cash from it 
wasnt suitable advice. 
Withdrawal of an additional sum of £13,000 (before tax)
Ive seen a letter dated 24 August 2016 signed by Ms S saying she wanted to withdraw 
another £13,000 from her Zurich account and that she was aware of the tax implications. BFS says they executed this on a non-advised basis. 
The letter refers to previous discussions with BFS but theres no evidence when and how 
this was discussed and what was explained. Ms S says she didnt need the money and 
given her other provisions Im minded to believe her. As I said before I think Ms S likely did 
sign this letter. However, I agree with the investigator that it looks like the adviser might have 
been planning to use the additional drawdown sum to raise the funds to invest in the 
Prudential Investment plan. 
Even if Im wrong about this and it was Ms Ss wish to withdraw more money, I would expect 
BFS to be able to demonstrate what was discussed. They said they didnt advise her, but the 
recommendation report was only issued on 30 August which was after Ms Ss letter. The 
advice process wasnt yet completed and so I would have expected this to be covered in the 
recommendation report. 
Im not persuaded that Ms S would have proceeded with this withdrawal against advice or 
even if proper risk warnings were given. BFS was aware of Ms Ss circumstances and 
should have explained that taking another lump sum without evident reason was not in her 
best interest.
Switch from Zurich to Prudential in 2017
The reason for switching providers as per the suitability report in 2017 was that the range of 
funds in Ms Ss Zurich pension was limited and didnt allow her to access her desired 
investment strategy.
The Zurich plan had only been recommended a few months earlier and would have offered a 
wide range of investments. I cant see there was a need to move pensions for this reason. I 
also cant see that the new plan offered other benefits like lower fees. BFS didnt make any 
cost comparison. In fact illustrations showed that factoring in adviser and product charges, 
returns in the new plan would be reduced by 4%.Given that Ms S was invested in a low risk 
manner and returns would have likely been lower than average, these charges would have 
had a significant impact.
The suitability report showed Ms S might be better off by switching. However, the 
illustrations BFS compared used different growth rates and were therefore not comparable. 
Summary
I think Ms S was not provided with suitable advice and should be compensated if 
calculations show she has lost out financially as a result.
My aim is to put Ms S, as much as possible, in the position she likely would have been in if 
she had received suitable advice.
If advised properly, I think Ms S would have kept her existing pensions in 2016. Without 
transferring her GPP there was no real need to transfer her small personal pension either.  I 
think she could have used different funds if she really wanted to spend money on home 
repairs, a new car or on her children.
I also dont think she would have withdrawn the sum of £13,000 from her pension and 
incurred an increased tax charge for the financial year 2016/2017.
Ive seen evidence in form of Ms Ss payslips that no further contributions were paid nor 
employer contributions were received after she transferred her pension. I see no reason why her contributions and employer contributions would have stopped if she 
had not transferred her pension. I think on balance she would have received contributions 
until age 75 when she was planning to retire. BFS said they had discussions with Ms S and 
her employer and that she would auto-enrol in a new workplace pension and that they 
offered assistance with this. If she encountered problems, she could have come back and 
asked for help. They dont think they should be held responsible for lost contributions.
Again theres no evidence of these discussions which I would have expected to be part of 
the suitability letter or other notes or communications. So based on what Ive seen I think its 
fair and reasonable to hold BFS responsible for Ms Ss lost contributions.
Putting things right
The calculations below will put Ms S as much as possible back into the position she would 
have been in if she had kept her existing pensions, received employer contributions and not 
withdrawn £13,000 in 2016. Any charges she paid will be accounted for in this calculation.
I would like to make Ms S aware that it is possible the calculations result in a relatively 
small loss or potentially even no loss. Ive seen that the GPP provider previously has given 
her notional values which were higher than her pension. But up to date values will be 
needed to make comparisons to her current pensions and both her current value and the 
notional values will have been affected by stock market movements since then.
I understand Ms S feels shes lost out significantly by moving her pensions and making a 
large additional withdrawal. However, she needs to be mindful that its possible her new 
pension might have performed better than her old pensions which will impact the redress 
amount.
To compensate Ms S fairly, BFS must:
Compare the actual value of Ms S' current pension with the notional values if she 
had remained with the previous providers (GPP and small personal pension) and 
had not transferred in 2016. If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no 
compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual value, there 
is a loss and compensation is payable.
For the GPP pension, add 12.75%* of Ms Ss salary at the relevant time into the 
notional value calculation to account for her lost employer contributions and the tax 
relief on her own contributions. This should be added each month for the time 
between September 2016 when she transferred and January 2018 (Ms Ss 75th 
birthday).
* 9.375% employer contributions plus 20% tax relief and 20% tax relief on Ms Ss 7.5% 
employee contributions)
BFS should pay into Ms S' pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If BFS is unable to pay the total amount into Ms S' pension plan (for example 
because it exceeds Ms Ss money purchase allowance), they should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Ms S wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms S' actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age which is assumed to be 20%. As 
25% of her pension would be paid tax-free, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Portfolio 
nameBenchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional interest
Ms S current 
Prudential 
pensionNotional 
value from 
previous 
providersDate of 
transfer in 
August 2016Date of my 
final decision8% simple per year 
from final decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving Ms S 
acceptance)
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If BFS deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Ms S how much has been taken off. BFS should give Ms S a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Ms S asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from Ms Ss current pension at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Ms S' pension had it remained with the previous provider until the end 
date. BFS should request that the previous providers calculate these values.
Any additional sum that Ms S paid into the investment (including the contributions that 
should have been paid in as set out above) should be added to the notional value calculation 
at the point it was/would have actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from Ms S current Prudential pension should be deducted from the notional 
value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if BFS totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
The exception to this is the withdrawal of £13,000 in September 2016. This should only be 
deducted from the notional value at the end. This ensures lost returns on this sum are 
factored in.
Tax charge
Ms S was charged income tax on the £13,000 withdrawal in 2016 which led to some of her 
income being taxed at 40%. She received a rebate for some of the tax from HMRC based 
on her estimated income in 2016/2017. However, as her employment income then increased, HRMC offset this rebate. So she effectively never received a deduction on tax 
for the withdrawal amount. 
Looking at HMRCs paperwork Ms S had taxable income of £39,273.72 which led to a tax 
liability of £9,309.20 in the 2016/2017 tax year. Without the additional withdrawal of 
£13,000 her taxable income would have been £26,273.72. Her tax liability (all at 20%) 
would have been £5,254.75. So Ms S overpaid £4,054.45 income tax in 2016/2017. 
I have taken into account that Ms S always would have had to pay income tax on this 
amount at some point and assume this would have been at 20% which is £2,600. 
This leaves her with an overall overpaid tax amount of £1,454.20 which should be refunded 
to her plus 8% simple annual interest on this sum for the time the sum was withdrawn in 
2016 until the compensation is paid to Ms S. This is to compensate Ms S for being deprived 
of this money during this time.
Distress and inconvenience
This matter has caused Ms S considerable distress and so BFS should pay £300 to 
acknowledge this.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ss complaint and require Bankfoot Financial Services Ltd to calculate and pay 
redress to Ms S as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman