DRN-4255632
The complaint
A partnership, which I will refer to as V, complains about the way that Barclays Bank UK 
PLC handled a request to make a change to its bank account. 
Mr S, who is a partner of V brings the complaint on Vs behalf together with Mrs V, the 
executor of the late Mr Vs estate.  
What happened
Mr S and Mr V were formerly in business together and retain ownership of a property in 
which Mrs S and Mrs V also have an interest. The property generates an income which is 
paid into and distributed from a Barclays business account in the name of V.
When Mr V became unwell, it was decided to add Mrs V and Mrs S to the account to prevent 
the account being frozen in the event of Mr Vs death. Barclays subsequently confirmed that 
the account wouldnt be frozen if Mr V passed away but there were issues trying to properly 
complete the mandate change form.
Mr S thought Barclays mandate change form didnt make it adequately clear which 
signatories needed to sign in which box. Mr S was concerned that other customers would 
face similar problems.
Before coming to this service, Barclays offered to pay £100 compensation. After considering 
the complaint, our investigator agreed that the form provided by Barclays wasnt sufficiently 
clear about whether and where the new signatory to the account should sign. 
The investigator said that even if the form was clearer, Barclays couldnt have made the 
mandate change as Mr Vs signature didnt match the one it held on file and Barclays didnt 
have a copy of Vs partnership agreement. The investigator did however think that it 
wouldve taken less time to fix the signature problem, had the form been clearer and had 
Barclays given a more complete explanation. 
The investigator said that as it would take additional time to re-complete the forms and as 
thered been significant concern over the possible freezing of the account, together with 
difficulties obtaining Mr Vs signature, Barclays should pay more compensation than it had 
offered. The investigator recommended that Barclays pay £350 compensation. He didnt 
think it necessary for Barclays to amend the form before the parties completed it as they 
should now be aware of what information was required. 
Barclays doesnt think that the mandate change form is unclear but it has agreed to pay 
£350 compensation.
Mr S doesnt entirely accept the investigators recommendation. Mr S thinks there are two 
separate issues to consider. The first relates to Barclays failure to clarify whether the bank 
account would be frozen if Mr V was to die. The second is Barclays insistence that the 
mandate change form is clear when he feels it isnt. Mr S wants this service to direct 
Barclays to make changes to the wording of the form. Once the changes have been made, 
Mr S says he will consider what would be an appropriate level of compensation. 
Mr S also thinks Barclays should make the changes to the account to add the new 
signatories as theres clear authority from the account holders and proposed signatories.
The investigator considered everything that Mr S said in response to his view. He explained 
that this service doesnt have the power to punish or fine a business for their actions and that 
this would be the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
The investigator agreed that Barclays errors had caused distress but thought £350 was fair 
compensation where the impact has gone on over a couple of months. The investigator 
noted that Barclays responded quickly to advise on what changes needed to be carried out 
when completing the mandate change form. He also said V hadnt provided the partnership 
document as required, so didnt think V had done as much it could have to mitigate the 
impact. The investigator explained that these factors reduced the amount of compensation 
he would recommend. 
Since bringing the complaint, Mr V has sadly passed away so he is now represented by the 
executor of his estate, Mrs V. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so but that doesnt 
mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to us. Its just that to reach 
a decision thats fair and reasonable, I dont need to comment on every piece of 
correspondence. 
I appreciate Mr S would like Barclays to amend the mandate form to help other customers 
but we deal with individual complaints about the service that someone has received. It would 
be for the FCA to investigate Barclays business practices and procedures more generally. I 
cant fairly require Barclays to make the changes Mr S would like as part of its resolution of 
the complaint. Im sorry that this is likely to disappoint Mr S.
I understand Mr S wants Barclays to pay more compensation, but I agree with the 
investigator that £350 is fair. As the investigator noted, when Barclays rejected the 
completed mandate change form in 2021, it explained who would need to sign the section to 
add an authorised person. Barclays also explained that Mr Vs signature didnt match and 
that it needed a certified copy of the partnership agreement or deed. So V was promptly 
made aware of how to complete the form and that additional information was required. So, 
Im satisfied that Barclays took reasonable steps to try and support V. 
It's unfortunate that Barclays initially told V that the account may be frozen. I understand that 
V has raised further concerns over the account which are the subject of a separate 
complaint to Barclays. So, I am just considering whether £350 adequately reflects the upset 
and worry caused to V when it thought its account might be frozen in the event of Mr Vs 
death, together with the difficulties it encountered when completing the mandate change 
form. Having done so, I still think £350 is fair as it falls within the range of award we might 
make where the mistake has caused considerable upset and significant inconvenience. For 
the avoidance of doubt, this award includes the £100 already offered by Barclays.  
Finally, on the question of making changes to the account  I understand Mr Ss point about the signatories intentions being clear to Barclays but I still think its reasonable to expect the 
parties to complete the mandate change of form so that Barclays can make the necessary 
changes. If Mr S or any of the signatories have any queries about completing the form, I 
suggest they contact Barclays using the number it has previously provided. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay V a total of £350 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs V on 
behalf of the estate of the late Mr V, to accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman