DRN-2878104
The complaint
Mr H complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) have not fairly handled his claim for poor 
repairs done under his home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by 
our investigator previously. so, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my 
decision.
In 2013, Mr H made a claim for water damage. UKI arranged for repairs to be 
completed but a year later Mr H noticed that the row of curved Victorian-style dado 
tiles had cracked.
In 2015, UKI completed further repairs to put right the faulty workmanship.
Mr H moved to a different insurer in 2015.
In December 2020 Mr H noticed a small crack in the dado tiles in the shower. And 
by February 2021 he said the crack had gone all the way along the row of tiles in 
the shower and he noticed water damage to the wall behind the shower at the top of 
the stairs. 
Mr H made a claim to his current insurer, but it rejected the claim saying it was 
maintenance issues (i.e. wear and tear). But Mr H believes that the problem has 
occurred due to the repairs done in 2015 and UKI should treat this as a continuation 
of that claim. 
UKI has said the works were guaranteed for 12 months so the time to raise 
concerns about the work ended in 2016 and it felt that it was more likely than not 
that if the cause of damage was faulty workmanship, this wouldve become 
apparent much sooner than it did. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H didnt agree and so the complaint 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H isnt currently insured with UKI and it is therefore not responsible for a new claim. So, 
Ive considered if this claim, based on the current evidence available, should be considered 
as a continuation of the claim made in 2013 and repairs completed in 2015.
The 2015 repairs were guaranteed for 12 months so Im satisfied that the current damage is 
outside of the guarantee. 
I think it more likely than not that if the damage was due to faulty workmanship this wouldve 
presented itself much sooner than five years later. I am therefore not persuaded at this time 
that UKI should treat this claim as a continuation.
However, UKI is willing to consider Mr Hs claim if he can provide an expert report to support 
poor workmanship. It has also said Mr H can approach his current insurer for further 
evidence why it declined the claim as this may provide a more detailed explanation on the 
cause of damage and possibly support his position. I think this is a fair and reasonable way 
forward in the circumstances of this complaint and I wont be directing UKI to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 
22 July 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman