DRN-2475067
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly refused to pay her claim 
when she had to cancel her holiday under her travel policy.
What happened
Mrs W has a travel insurance policy through her bank account which is underwritten by UKI. 
Mrs W has a serious life-long medical condition and sadly in 2019 because she became ill 
with this, she had to cancel her holiday. She made a claim to UKI, but it said she hadnt 
declared this medical condition and consequently it was refusing to pay her claim.
Mrs W said that when this policy was offered to her by her bank in 2009, she made it clear to 
the operative that she had this pre-existing condition. She said the operative told her that 
since she was born with it, she then didnt have to disclose it every year. 
However, UKI said it no longer had records going all the way back to 2009, and its policy 
terms are clear that pre-existing medical conditions must be declared and accepted in writing 
by it before cover is provided for them. It did however pay Mrs W £150 compensation for 
some delays it had caused.
Dissatisfied Mrs W brought her complaint to us. The investigator was of the view UKI (as the 
underwriter and not the seller of the policy) hadnt done anything wrong. Mrs W didnt agree 
so her complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. And Ill now explain why.
First, I must reiterate, as the investigator explained that I am not dealing with the sale of this 
policy by Mrs Ws bank through her bank account. Im simply dealing with the terms and 
conditions of this policy and UKIs decision to refuse to pay Mrs Ws claim in 2019. I also 
understand that Mrs W is in the process of complaining to her bank about the sale of the 
policy separately. However, UKI was not involved in selling this policy to Mrs W.
When UKI initially told Mrs W it wasnt paying her claim, she explained that it had previously 
paid claims based on her medical condition. UKI said she had made a claim based on her 
medical condition in 2016 but it hadnt been paid because her medical condition hadnt been 
declared and accepted by it. And there had been no further contact by Mrs W concerning the 
issue. It also confirmed that Mrs W made a claim for the loss of her passport in 2016, which 
was paid. Further UKI had no information going back as far 2009, so it wasnt able to see 
what might have been discussed then between Mrs W and her bank. 
I dont think UKI did anything wrong here as the policy terms clearly state that pre-existing 
conditions arent covered unless they are declared and accepted by UKI. If cover is then 
provided, the policy terms are clear such acceptance of the medical condition will only last 
for 12 calendar months. After this time, the condition will need to be declared again. And 
theres simply no evidence of what Mrs W said she was told by the operative selling her 
policy in 2009.
Mrs W believes both parties have made errors, but I can see what error UKI has made. The 
policy is clear about medical conditions needing to be declared annually and Mrs W cant 
provide any evidence that this was different in her case given her life-long medical condition. 
Theres no term in the policy covering such an issue or explaining that this was even 
possible. Therefore, in the absence of this I cant see that UKI made any error.  
It initially paid Mrs W £150 compensation for its delays in dealing with her claim of 2019. 
That issue isnt covered by covered by this complaint as Mrs W didnt complain about it.
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman