DRN-3372402
The complaint
Mr S complains about Revolut Ltds decision to review and subsequently close his account. 
Mr S is also unhappy that Revolut Ltd decided to return the money in his account to the 
original senders.
What happened
Mr S held a Revolut account. In May 2020, Mr Ss account was flagged for review. During 
the review, Mr Ss account was fully limited.
As part of the review, Revolut asked Mr S to provide information relating to the funds which 
had been paid into his account. Mr S couldnt provide all of the information theyd asked for. 
He explained to our service that one of the top-ups was from a pre-paid gift card which hed 
disposed of; and another was from an individual who didnt have access to their account so 
couldnt provide any evidence.
In July 2020, Revolut finalised their review and decided to close Mr Ss account. They 
returned the money which was left in the account to the original sources.
Mr S complained. Revolut responded to Mr Ss complaint and confirmed that they were 
entitled to end the relationship with Mr S and return the money. Revolut also said they 
couldnt disclose any details regarding the review or why they made the decision they did.
Mr S brought the complaint to our service. While Mr Ss complaint was waiting to be 
investigated, Revolut offered Mr S a payment of £20 as a gesture of goodwill to resolve the 
complaint. Mr S rejected this offer.
Our investigator reviewed things and thought Revolut were entitled to take the actions they 
did  including closing the account and returning the money left in it back to source. She 
didnt ask Revolut to do anything differently. Mr S remained unhappy. He wanted to know 
why Revolut did what they did  and above all, wanted his money back.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to make Mr S aware that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. 
We may treat evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the 
information Revolut has provided is information that we considered should be kept 
confidential.
Revolut are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened, 
Im satisfied Revolut was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they 
reviewed Mr Ss account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong. 
I appreciate Revolut didnt tell Mr S about the review  but they dont have to. As part of their 
review, Revolut asked Mr S for detailed information about the money in his account and 
where it came from  which theyre entitled to do under their obligations. I appreciate Mr S 
wasnt able to supply the information Revolut asked for  he says he had disposed of the gift 
card used to top-up, and the third-party individual who he needed information from couldnt 
access his own account to give Mr S the information. I recognise this would have left Mr S in 
a difficult situation  Revolut asked him for information he wasnt able to provide. But Ive 
had to weigh up whether I think Revolut were fair in their actions. Having reviewed the full 
circumstances of this complaint, I feel Revoluts questions were wholly appropriate. Because 
of that, while I recognise Mr Ss upset around this, I cant fairly conclude Revolut acted 
inappropriately.
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if Mr S decided to stop banking with Revolut, he wouldnt have to explain why. Revolut 
can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and conditions of 
the account. This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion unless 
we think theyve acted unfairly. Revolut have relied on, and complied with, the terms and 
conditions when closing Mr Ss account and Ive seen nothing to suggest that theyve made 
an unfair decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to do anything differently. 
Overall, Revolut were entitled to review, block and subsequently close Mr Ss account. They 
asked for information to be provided to them relating to money paid into the account  and it 
is Revoluts duty to ensure their customers money is protected. As Mr S couldnt satisfy 
Revoluts requirements, they decided to close the account and did so while complying with 
the terms and conditions. Im sorry Mr S is left in the position he finds himself in  and Im 
sorry I cant share more details with him on the reasons why. But in order to uphold his 
complaint and ask Revolut to do something to put things right, Id need to be satisfied they 
did something wrong. And having considered everything, I cant reasonably say they did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman