DRN-4318846
The complaint
Mr S complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) arent paying him the correct amount of 
interest on his account.
What happened
Mr S complained to Santander as he thought the credit interest paid on his account was 
lower than the advertised rate. He asked Santander to reimburse him for the shortfall.
Santander said the interest paid was correct. It said that the advertised rate is an Annual 
Equivalent Rate (AER), which shows what the interest rate would be if Santander paid 
interest on an annual basis. It said that the rate is currently 2% AER or 1.98% gross.
Mr S didnt agree and referred the matter to this service. He said he received 1.98% 
currently not 2% as he thought he should.  He told us it had always been the case that hed 
received less interest than the advertised rate. Mr S thought he should receive interest on 
the interest hed earned, but this didnt happen because Santander only pays interest on 
balances up to £20,000. And Mr S maintained a balance in excess of £20,000.
Our Investigator didnt think Santander had done anything wrong. But Mr S didnt agree and 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. He thought Santander should 
pay £500 to cover both the shortfall in interest he thinks he shouldve earned, as well 
compensating him for the distress and inconvenience caused by the banks mistake.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr S hoped Id contact him before I came to my decision but I didnt think this was 
necessary. I fully understand the things hes unhappy with and theres enough information 
for me to fairly to reach a final decision. 
The central issue for Mr S is the rate hes receiving isnt the AER. But I think theres some 
misinterpretation of the AER. Essentially, its an indicative rate intended to allow for like for 
like comparisons between different interest paying products, in the same way an APR allows 
proper comparisons between products where money is borrowed.  
AER stands for Annual Equivalent Rate and shows what a customer could earn from an 
interest-paying account over the course of a year. Its different from the gross rate, which is 
the flat rate of interest thats actually paid. The AER is designed to make comparisons easy. 
But it doesnt necessarily reflect the actual amount of interest a customer will receive, as that 
depends on a number of factors. These include how often interest is paid and whether the 
monthly interest is left in the account. Where interest is paid monthly the gross rate is 
typically less than the AER.
Mr S fully agrees and accepts Santanders terms. They provide the interest rate which 
currently applies to the account is 2.00% AER / 1.98% gross (variable).
They also state: Youll earn interest on your entire balance up to £20,000. We work out the 
interest on your daily balance and pay the interest every month. Well pay this interest into 
your current account on the same day each month. This is usually on the date you opened 
or transferred your account. We wont pay you any interest for any month where you dont 
meet the eligibility requirements. Interest payments will be paid using the gross rate
Mr Ss account pays interest monthly. The terms and conditions say that interest will be paid 
using the gross rate (currently 1.98%). Im satisfied thats whats paid here.
Santander only pays interest on the account balance up to £20,000. Mr S maintains a 
balance in excess of £20,000 and told us the monthly interest he receives adds to this 
excess. Mr S says that, because of this, he doesnt receive interest on the interest he earns. 
I think thats right. But, even though thats the case, I dont think Santander has done 
anything wrong in this respect.
Its clear from the terms and conditions of the account that Santander will only pay interest 
on balances up to £20,000. As the account balance exceeds £20,000, the money above this 
level - including the interest paid - will earn no interest. The terms say that Mr S will earn 
interest on the entire balance up to £20,000. So, if the balance below £20,000 included 
previous interest payments, Santander would pay interest on those. The fact that the interest 
payments add to the balance above £20,000 means they dont attract interest under the 
terms of this particular account. So, I dont think Santander has done anything wrong by not 
paying interest on the interest here.
Mr S thinks that Santander is in breach of its own definition of AER. The AER is advertised 
as 2%. But Mr S thinks, because interest is not being paid on interest, the AER is 1.98% 
which is the amount he gets. An AER accounts for any interest earned on interest. A gross 
rate doesnt. An AER assumes that the monthly interest payments are left in the account 
and, in turn, attract interest. Thats not happening here because the amount on which 
interest is calculated isnt increasing each month (because of the cap of £20,000). So, the 
amount Mr S actually receives is 1.98%, which is the gross amount.
In effect, Mr S doesnt get paid 2%. But, as Ive set out above, the AER is an indicative rate 
for comparison purposes. It doesnt guarantee a particular return. I think the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ss account are clear that Santander will pay interest of 2% AER /1.98% 
gross by way of monthly payments at the gross rate, on balances up to a maximum of 
£20,000. Im satisfied thats what Santander have done here. So, overall, I think it is paying 
interest correctly, in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ss account. Although I 
anticipate Mr S will disagree with me, Im not going to uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman