DRN-2762528
The complaint
 Mr R has complained that Hastings Insurance Services Limited trading as Hastings Direct 
unfairly cancelled his insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R took out a car insurance policy with Hastings  a broker. The policys annual premium 
was to be paid for on a monthly basis, funded by a credit agreement with Hastings.
The policy was set up and everything was running fine with the credit agreement being paid 
each month by direct debit. But in March 2020 Mr R switched bank accounts. Hastings 
received a notification from Mr Rs old bank letting it know the direct debit instruction had 
been cancelled.
Hastings wrote to Mr R on 1 April 2020, both by letter and email to let him know the direct 
debit had been cancelled and that he needed to let it know his payment details. Hastings 
received no further response so it wrote to Mr R again, both by letter and email, letting him 
know he needed to update his payment details and gave instructions on how he could do 
this. Hastings said if it didnt receive Mr Rs payment details by 17 April 2020 it would cancel 
his policy the following day. Hastings said it didnt receive anything further, so it cancelled 
Mr Rs policy and wrote to him advising him of this.
Mr R wasnt happy with this and complained to Hastings. He said he didnt receive the letters 
as he was staying with his parents as he was shielding due to the coronavirus pandemic. He 
said he also replied to Hastings in an email saying hed already set up the direct debit as the 
last payment was taken without issue  and this payment happened after he switched banks.
Hastings didnt change its stance. It said it did what it needed to in terms of letting Mr R 
know what he needed to do and the consequences of not doing so. It said the terms of the 
credit agreement allowed it to cancel his insurance policy if there wasnt a valid direct debit 
set up to fund the credit agreement. Hastings also said the email Mr R sent was sent to an 
unmonitored email address and has said that Mr R would have received an email letting him 
know his email wouldnt have been read.
Mr R remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. He doesnt think its fair his policy 
was cancelled as hed not missed a payment, and never intended to miss one. He said the 
cancellation of this policy has meant hes had to buy a new policy, which was more 
expensive as he had to declare that hed had a policy cancelled.
Our investigator recommended Mr Rs complaint be upheld. She thought Hastings acted too 
hastily when cancelling Mr Rs policy because at the point it cancelled, hed not actually 
missed a payment. She thought Hastings should remove any record of the cancellation and 
provide Mr R a letter explaining the policy was cancelled in error. She said Mr R could then 
provide this letter to his new insurer to see if they could re-rate his policy based on the 
information. Our investigator thought Hastings should pay Mr R the difference between what 
he paid the new insurer after the policy was re-rated and what he would have had to pay 
Hastings had the policy not cancelled. And she thought Hastings should pay Mr R £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset it caused by cancelling his policy.
Mr R agreed with our investigator. Hasting disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. It says it was entitled to cancel the policy as Mr R didnt have an active direct debit 
set up to fund the credit agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, when a contract of insurance is taken out, the underwriter  the insurer 
 gets the full premium paid up front. What sometimes happens is that consumers choose to 
pay for the premium on a monthly basis. When this happens a separate credit agreement is 
set up with a finance provider. The finance provider pays the insurer the premium upfront. 
And the consumer pays the finance provider the agreed monthly repayments. The contract 
of insurance, and the credit agreement set up to fund it are two separate agreements. 
There are often terms within the credit agreement which allow credit provider to be able to 
cancel the contract of insurance if theyre not met. But importantly, the terms relating to the 
cancellation of the policy are contained within the terms of the insurance policy. Only an 
insurer can cancel an insurance policy. The insurer can delegate that authority to another 
party, such as a broker or credit provider. But they can only cancel the policy in line with the 
terms of the insurance policy itself.
In Mr Rs case, Hastings act as his insurance broker, and the credit provider. Mr Rs policy is 
underwritten by another business. Hastings sold him the policy and paid the insurer the full 
premium, and set up a credit agreement with Mr R to spread the cost of this over the year. 
Ive seen the credit agreement and it says that Hastings can cancel the policy if theres no 
active direct debit set up to fund the credit agreement.
Mr Rs policy was set up, and the credit agreement set up without issue. He set up a monthly 
direct debit and payments were being taken. The issue occurred here when Mr R switched 
banks.
When he switched banks, Hastings was made aware that the direct debit instruction was 
cancelled. And this isnt surprising  the account with the direct debit set up was closing. 
Hastings wrote to Mr R letting him know of this, and it wrote to him both in the post and by 
email, to the address it had on file. And this is what wed expect it to do. Ive seen those 
letters and emails and they clearly explain what Mr R needs to do to keep the policy running.
Hastings didnt receive a response to its first communication, so seven days later it sent 
Mr R a further chaser by both email and post. Ive seen both these letters too, and both 
clearly say that if Mr R doesnt set up a new direct debit, or pay the balance in full, then 
Hastings will cancel his insurance policy in 10 days on 17 April 2020.
Hastings said a new direct debit wasnt set up, nor did it hear from Mr R to arrange one or 
settle the outstanding balance. So it cancelled Mr Rs policy on 18 April and wrote to him 
both by post and email letting him know.
Hastings cancelled Mr Rs policy based on him not complying with a term in the credit 
agreement. But the terms of the policy set out when the insurer (or in effect Hastings acting 
on behalf of the insurer) can cancel the policy. Those terms say Hastings can cancel the 
policy at anytime by giving seven days written notice. But importantly, it says it can only do 
this for a number of reasons. Those reasons are:We've been unable to collect a payment for your premium - see general condition 4
You refuse to allow us or your Insurer reasonable access to your Car/s In order to 
provide the services you've requested under this Policy e.g. when you make a claim
You don't provide reasonable co-operation to us or your Insurer In order to allow us 
to process your Policy, or a claim, or to defend our Interests
Your Insurer Is prevented from providing cover under this Policy by law or other 
reason
You don't send us or your Insurer Information or documentation that your Insurer 
reasonably requires to process your Policy, or a claim, or to defend their Interests
You don't take care of your Carls as required by general condition 3 and In your 
Insurer's reasonable opinion this materially Increases the risk they have Insured
You use threatening or abusive language or behaviour, or Intimidate or bully our 
employees or your Insurer's staff or suppliers.
General Condition 4 relates to Non-payment of premiums and goes on to say If you're 
paying in instalments under a loan agreement, you (the Primary Policyholder) must make 
sure instalments are paid on time. If an instalment isn't received by the date it's due, we, on 
behalf of your Insurer, will give you at least seven days' notice of cancellation in writing to 
your last known address by first class post or email. The Policy will end after the seven days' 
notice runs out.
Mr Rs policy was cancelled before any payment was missed. Hed made the last payment, 
and the issue with the direct debit was spotted before the next payment was due to be taken. 
By cancelling Mr Rs policy before any payment was missed, Hastings has done so outside 
of the terms of the policy. So it has cancelled Mr Rs policy unfairly.
Hastings said it wouldnt be fair for it to wait until Mr R missed a payment before notifying 
him there was an issue. And I agree. I think Hastings acted fairly when letting Mr R know it 
had an issue with the direct debit as soon as it found out. But as explained above, I think 
Hastings acted unfairly when cancelling Mr Rs policy when it did. This is because the terms 
of the insurance policy only allow it to be cancelled for a number of reasons set out within 
the terms. And, as Mr R hadnt missed a payment, none of those listed reasons applied.
Putting things right
 As a result of this policy cancelling, Mr R had to purchase a new policy with a different 
business. Hes said that policy was more expensive as a result of him having to declare that 
hed had a policy cancelled. Thats not unsurprising, so I think Hastings needs to take action 
to put that right for Mr R.
To do so it should:
Remove any record of cancellation from any internal or external databases.
Once Hastings has removed any record of the cancellation, it should write to Mr R 
confirming this and confirming it cancelled his policy in error. Mr R can then use this 
letter to show his current insurer and ask it to re-rate his policy based on him now 
not having had a policy cancelled.
Hasting should then pay Mr R the pro-rata difference between that re-rated policy and the policy he had with Hastings if the new policy is more expensive. This should 
be calculated from the date Mr R took out his new policy, to the date his policy with 
Hastings was due to end. Any refund under this point is subject to Mr R providing 
Hastings with evidence of the re-rated policy.
Pay Mr R £100 for the trouble and upset caused by having his policy cancelled and 
having to arrange a new one sooner than expected.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint and require Hastings Insurance 
Services Limited to:
Remove any record of cancellation from any internal or external databases.
Once Hastings has removed any record of the cancellation, it should write to Mr R 
confirming this and confirming it cancelled his policy in error. Mr R can then use this 
letter to show his current insurer and ask it to rerate his policy based on him now not 
having had a policy cancelled.
Hasting should then pay Mr R the pro rata difference between that re-rated policy 
and the policy he had with Hastings. This should be calculated from the date Mr R 
took out his new policy, to the date his policy with Hastings was due to end. Any 
refund under this point is subject to Mr R providing Hastings with evidence of the re-
rated policy.
Pay Mr R £100 for the trouble and upset caused by having his policy cancelled and 
having to arrange a new one sooner than expected.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman