DRN-3664532
The complaint
Mr F complains Intrum UK Limited have recorded incorrect information on his credit file.
What happened
Mr F took out a loan with a lender who Ill call L, on 16 January 2018. The loan fell into 
arrears following a change in Mr Fs employment and was sold to Intrum on 13 March 2020. 
Mr F set up an arrangement to pay with Intrum for £25 per month.
Intrum told Mr F they were going to record on his credit file an A to reflect an arrangement 
to pay. But, then in February 2022 told him they were going to record a default, which he 
said wasnt correct. So, he complained. Mr F said when contacting Intrum to complain, he 
was told they wouldnt register the default  but did anyway. Mr F also said as the account is 
in dispute, all demands for payment should cease.
In response to Mr Fs complaint, Intrum said on 30 March 2020 they told Mr F they were 
resetting the arrears to zero due to the Covid-19 pandemic. They said this letter also 
confirmed a Default Notice may be issued if the contractual payment wasnt received every 
month. On 1 September 2021 Intrum decided to start asking for repayment of the arrears, 
and the next day they wrote and said the arrears would start accruing if the monthly payment 
of £386.28 wasnt made. They said they had no record of any contact with Mr F following 
this. Then a Notice of Sum in Arrears was sent 17 November 2021. They said in response 
Mr F got in touch 31 December 2021 querying this because of his payment arrangement.
Following this, a Notice of Default was issued on 18 January 2022 because four months 
worth of arrears had accrued at this point  Intrum said Mr F needed to pay £1,806.40  the 
value of the arrears  by 14 February 2022 or a default would be registered. Intrum said they 
didnt hear from Mr F, so recorded the default the following day. They accepted Mr F was 
told the default wouldnt be registered while they were investigating and said sorry for this. 
Theyd noted Mr F said the account should be recorded as in default from 2019, as thats 
when L defaulted it. They said theyd look into this with L, but otherwise didnt think theyd 
done anything wrong. 
Unhappy with this, Mr F asked us to look into things  saying Intrum had recorded a default 
as at February 2022 when it should be when L defaulted him and had continued taking 
payments when the account was in dispute.
One of our Investigators felt enough information had been provided to our service to show L 
had defaulted Mr Fs account on 18 September 2019. So, he said Intrum should update the 
default date. But, he found no evidence Intrum knew the account had been defaulted before 
this  so he felt theyd acted in good faith, and didnt award any compensation.
Intrum accepted this, and said theyd made the necessary updates to register the default 
date as at 18 September 2019.
Mr F though didnt agree. In summary he said there was enough evidence to show Intrum 
had been reporting the account fraudulently. And he felt theyd received money by deception 
when reaching a payment arrangement. So, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mr Fs complaint in considerably less detail than he has. If Ive not reflected something thats 
been said its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of 
the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless I 
think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
During the course of this complaint Mr F has suggested different laws prevent Intrum from 
taking the action they have  though he didnt mention what part of those laws. When raised, 
our Investigator addressed each one, saying he didnt think they did  and quoting the 
relevant sections or offering his opinion on them. Our Investigator invited Mr F to come back 
with the specific parts of the law hed quoted, but he didnt do so. I want Mr F to be aware I 
need to take into account the law, along with the regulations and good business practice, but 
Im required to decide cases on a fair and reasonable remit. As Mr F didnt reply back with 
more specific arguments about which part of the laws hed quoted, and Ive seen nothing 
wrong with our Investigators response, I wont mention those laws.
Should the default have been registered
Ive seen on the notes provided by Intrum they did tell Mr F they wouldnt record the default 
while they were looking into his complaint. And its not in dispute the account was defaulted, 
while they were looking into his complaint.
So, I agree with Mr F he was told this information by Intrum. What I have to decide, is 
whether Intrums error has had an unfair impact on Mr F. An error being made doesnt 
automatically mean compensation should be paid  if that error hasnt had an impact.
Ive looked at the process Intrum carried out when defaulting Mr Fs account. Typically, an 
account could be defaulted once three months worth of arrears have been built up  and 
should usually have defaulted by the time six months worth of arrears have built up. Intrum 
took the decision during the Covid-19 pandemic to stop factoring in the arrears, but then in 
September 2021 chose to ask for repayment of this. As Intrum were the legal owner of the 
account by this point, theyve acted fairly in wanting this money repaid.
Ive seen the letters Intrum referred to when they replied to Mr Fs complaint. As theyve 
said, it does set out that Mr F needs to repay the arrears in order to prevent the default being 
registered. And, Ive not seen anything to suggest he did so before Intrum then defaulted the 
account on 15 February 2022.
So, purely looking at the default process, and for the moment setting aside the conversation 
Mr F had, Intrum acted fairly in defaulting the account.
But Mr F has said the account should have been showing as already defaulted by L  which 
our Investigator ultimately agreed with. The key issue though, is whether Intrum did anything wrong. I cant say they did if I find they werent told the account was defaulted when taking it 
over.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided by both parties, and there isnt any evidence to show 
Intrum knew the account had been defaulted when they took it over. Why that is I cant say, 
but what that means is Intrum didnt do anything wrong in pursuing a default. Thats 
because, as Ive set out above, they have explained Mr F was in arrears, and didnt clear 
them.
Coming back to what Mr F was told on the phone, its disappointing Intrum have made an 
error  by not stopping the reporting of the default when they said they would. But, Ive not 
found this has had an impact on Mr F. I say that because, actually, Intrum should have been 
reporting the default anyway from when they took over the account  had they known about 
it. Ultimately, the correct status of the account at the time of the conversation Mr F had, was 
that it should be recorded in default. Because of that, I cant reasonably say this has had an 
unfair impact on Mr F  because the status was correct.
Finally, prior to Intrums knowledge of the true status of Mr Fs account as being in default, 
theyve acted fairly by recording an arrangement to pay. This is what Id usually expect when 
an account hasnt been defaulted, and a temporary arrangement has been reached to pay 
less than the contractual amount. So, given Intrum reached this agreement in good faith, and 
didnt know about the default, they didnt do anything wrong.
Payments to the account
Mr F says following our Investigators outcome that Intrum had been receiving payments 
fraudulently. This is linked to his understanding that its irrelevant whether Intrum knew the 
account was defaulted or not  theyve asked him to pay money towards an account he says 
they shouldnt.
I think itll help to say that, even when an account is in default, that doesnt automatically 
mean no payments can or should be made to it. Mr F isnt disputing the money Intrum were 
asking him to pay was money he borrowed from L. And, in subsequent events, has since 
partially settled the debt with a payment of £4,000.
All of this suggests Mr F accepts the account was his. So, on a purely fair and reasonable 
basis, itd be inappropriate for me to suggest Intrum repay him money he accepts he owed.
Issues Ive not considered
Since Mr F paid off the account hes said:
Hes unhappy the account isnt closed
Hes unhappy the status of the account hasnt been updated with the credit reference 
agencies
Hes taking Intrum to court over the default statuses theyve recorded from March 
2022 onwards
These elements werent part of this existing complaint, as I can see our Investigator has 
explained, so Ive not considered them. Mr F would need to raise this as a new complaint if 
he wanted these points considered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman