DRN-2614714
The complaint
Miss B complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited declined a claim after her 
waterbed was damaged.
What happened
Miss B has home insurance with Lloyds which covers her home and its contents, amongst 
other things.
In August 2020, she made a claim after her waterbed was damaged accidentally and 
needed to be replaced.
Lloyds declined the claim because they said Miss B wasnt able to provide proof of her loss. 
Miss B didnt have a receipt for her purchase of the bed around two years earlier.
Miss B asked Lloyds to re-consider, but they maintained their position, so she brought her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong.
Miss B disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Bs policy booklet sets out what will happen when the policyholder makes a claim. 
Amongst other things, it says:
We may also ask you for more information to support your claim such as for proof of 
ownership. Acceptable proof would be a receipt, invoice, credit agreement, pre-loss 
valuation or maybe even a photo.
Theres also a section later in the policy booklet which sets out general conditions about 
what a policyholder is expected to do when they make a claim. Under the heading Proof of 
loss or damage, the policy says:
You must be able to prove and substantiate your loss. To assist with this we may 
request you to provide reasonable additional information at your own expense.
Examples are:
Original purchase receipts, valuations, invoices, instruction booklets, bank 
statements or photographs.
Purchase dates of lost or damaged items.
For damaged items, confirmation by a suitably qualified expert that the item 
you are claiming for is beyond repair.
There isnt anything unusual about those sections of Miss Hs policy. Most home insurance 
policies contain similar conditions and requirements. Nor is there anything inherently unfair 
or unreasonable about them. You would expect that if you were making a claim and asking 
the insurer to pay for repair or replacement of your belongings, you would need to 
demonstrate that they were yours and that they were damaged or lost.
The key point for me, in making this decision, is that the policy terms say Lloyds may request 
reasonable additional information to prove the policyholders loss. Very often, that will be a 
receipt or invoice, which - assuming its genuine - would definitively prove the policyholders 
ownership of the item(s) in question.
But we take the view  and the policy terms reflect this too  that its not always reasonable 
to require a receipt or invoice. These may be lost or misplaced over time. And, in any case, it 
would be unreasonable to decline a claim for lack of a receipt or invoice, where theres other 
clear evidence that the item(s) were owned by the policyholder.
Ill turn now to the detail of Miss Bs case. When Lloyds received the claim, they asked 
Miss B for an invoice or receipt. She said she didnt have one, so Lloyds, quite reasonably, 
looked for other avenues to prove ownership of the waterbed.
Miss B told Lloyds that she was reluctant to go back to the business that sold her the bed, to 
ask for their records of the sale or a copy invoice, because the owner was terminally ill. She 
later informed Lloyds that the owner had very sadly passed away and the business had 
closed, so there was no possibility of obtaining information or records from them.
Miss B also told Lloyds shed paid for the bed in cash, so there was no record in her bank 
statements of a payment from her account to the business from whom shed bought the bed. 
The cost of the bed appears to be close to, or in excess of, £1,000.
The only evidence Miss B could provide was a series of photographs showing a damaged 
waterbed mattress, a disassembled bed frame and a water stain on her bedroom floor.
Its important to say at this point, that Miss B made a very similar claim for accidental 
damage to a waterbed in 2015. Lloyds settled that claim by paying Miss B close to £900 as a 
cash settlement. The bed wasnt replaced or repaired by Lloyds.
Taking all of that into account, I dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds to want to see more 
proof or ownership than photographs of a damaged waterbed at Miss Bs home. Everyone 
accepts that Miss B has owned a waterbed which was damaged  she made a claim in 2015 
and received a cash settlement.Its important to say that Lloyds arent accusing Miss B of making a false claim here by 
submitting photographs of her old bed, which was damaged in 2015. 
However, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for them to ask for additional information or 
evidence as proof of ownership of a further waterbed, given that the photographs alone dont 
provide that proof and taking everything else into account.
I know Miss B will be disappointed, but Im not going to ask Lloyds to do anything more in 
relation to her claim. I have no doubt that if she can provide acceptable proof of ownership at 
some point in future, they would re-consider her claim in line with the terms of the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman