DRN-3467582
The complaint
Ms E complains Arrow Global Limited have chased her for an overdraft debt which she says 
they shouldnt have.
A number of companies have contacted Ms E about this debt, but as all were acting on 
behalf of Arrow, Ive just referred to Arrow in this decision.
What happened
Ms E says her husband ran a joint account without her knowledge  and this account had an 
overdraft. Ms E divorced her husband a few years later due to domestic violence. When she 
found out about the account, she saw the overdraft hadnt been repaid so began making 
repayments. 
Ms E says Arrow keep harassing her and saying its a joint debt, so why not contact him  as 
theyd calculated shed paid more than half. Arrow said they couldnt find him, but she said 
she found details within a few minutes. Ms E says Arrow want her to contact him, but she 
said there is no way shed do that given she shed fear for her physical safety. Ms E felt 
Arrow were harassing her to pay the debt as shed been told shed paid her half and the 
account against her was closed, but then they continued contacting her. Ms Es stated aim is 
for Arrow to get her ex-husband to pay the remaining debt.
Arrow said they understood Ms Es complaint was that their contact was harassing, theyd 
closed the account against her as shed paid her half, and theyd pursue the other party. 
Arrow said they bought the overdraft debt from a bank, and the account was in joint names. 
Because of that, the balance on the account is both parties responsibility until its been 
repaid. Arrow said they couldnt see theyd agreed to close the account and not ask her to 
repay the debt. Because of that, they also didnt agree with Ms Es concerns about 
harassment, and overall didnt uphold her complaint.
Unhappy with this Ms E asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so. He 
didnt think Arrow had done anything wrong in pursuing the debt, aside from sending multiple 
letters to Ms Es address which were addressed to her ex-husband. For this, he awarded 
£150.
Ms E accepted this outcome, saying her personal circumstances had changed, and she 
wouldnt be able to afford to repay the debt now anyway. Arrow replied and said they hadnt 
acted unfairly in asking Ms E to repay the debt. Because they didnt agree, the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its worth saying up front it appears Arrow have misunderstood the outcome our 
Investigator reached. He agreed Arrow had acted fairly in pursuing the debt, but felt the 
letters sent to Ms Es ex-husband at her address caused distress.
From my perspective, generally Ill only focus on what remains in dispute. So, as Ms E 
accepted our Investigators outcome, and Arrow appear to have misunderstood the outcome:
I agree Arrow have acted fairly in pursuing Ms E for the debt  most joint accounts 
are held on the basis either party can be held fully responsible for the debt. Ive not 
seen anything to suggest Ms E is no longer responsible for the debt or that Arrow told 
her shed no longer have to pay towards the debt.
Like our Investigator I cant share the details, but I can see Arrow have been 
attempting to contact Ms Es ex-husband regarding the debt. So, although I 
understand her frustrations at his lack of reply, I can only assess Arrows actions. 
And I find theyve done what Id have expected.
Ms E have said Arrow have harassed her in the context of shed already paid her 
half. As Ive set out above, she can be held responsible for the entire debt. So, I dont 
think Arrow have acted unfairly by continuing to contact her and ask her to repay it. 
Nor do I find, when considering the contact in isolation of these circumstances, Arrow 
were contacting Ms E unreasonably.
I do though agree with our Investigator compensation of £150 is due. I say this because 
Arrow wrote to Ms Es address on multiple occasions with letters addressed to her ex-
husband. In the very difficult circumstances Ms E has described, I do think shes been 
caused distress for something which clearly shouldnt have happened. I also think its 
appropriate for Arrow, and their agents, to remove any record of Ms Es ex-husband at her 
address. Arrow, and their agents, should also take steps to guard against this happening in 
the future as well.
Finally, Arrow have said Ms E hasnt made a payment towards the debt since 2018, and 
shes said she cant afford the repay the debt now anyway. Arrow are required to treat Ms E 
positively and sympathetically when shes in financial difficulties. Ms E should consider 
discussing her financial circumstances with Arrow  likely if she did, theyd ask her to 
complete an income and expenditure form. This should tell them whether she can or cant 
afford to repay anything towards the debt. If Ms E finds Arrow dont help her following this, 
and she thinks they should be, then she can raise a new complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is I partially uphold this complaint and require Arrow Global Limited to pay Ms E 
£150 compensation and arrange to remove any record of her ex-husband from her address 
on their or their agents systems.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman