DRN-2103560
The complaint
Mrs J complains that she's been wrongly advised by Fairmead Insurance Limited that she 
under-insured her property. And consequently, Fairmead has proportionately settled her 
claim for malicious damage under her landlords building insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs J owns properties that she lets out. In 2011 she took out a building insurance policy with 
Fairmead through an intermediary for one of her properties and renewed it since. When this 
property was damaged by her tenant in December 2019 she tried to make a claim. Fairmead 
sent a loss adjuster in January 2020 who reported that the sum insured for reinstating the 
property was inadequate. Fairmead invited Mrs J to submit her own independent valuation.
Fairmead said when Mrs J renewed the policy in March 2019 by phone, via an adviser of an 
intermediary, she answered the question about the value of the property incorrectly. 
Fairmead said when the policy was first taken out in 2011 Mrs J was asked to state, Value 
of buildings (rebuild), and said this would have been assisted by help text via an icon which 
when selected sates:
Please enter the total rebuilding cost of the property (not the current market value). If you
have a recent surveyors report, you may find this there. You can find a useful guide to 
suggested sums insured at; http://abi.bcis.co.uk.
Mrs J told the adviser she wanted to use the previous years value (about £87,000) and said 
she knew how much rebuild would cost and she could do it for less than the intermediary 
had suggested. Mrs J provided an estate agents retail valuation of the property at between 
£105,000 to £120,000. The policy shows she gave a sum insured value of £91,000.
Fairmead considered this an under-estimate of the rebuild cost though Mrs J told the adviser 
she was a property developer and knew about rebuild costs. But Fairmead said she had 
provided a market valuation, which wasnt required. It said a few years earlier Mrs J had set 
a rebuild cost of £136,000 but reduced this to £85,000 in 2015. Fairmead obtained a 
surveyors report which put the rebuild cost at £305,000 and said the property was only 30% 
adequately insured. It said that a term of the policy entitled it to apply this percentage in 
settlement of Mrs Js claim. 
5. Sum Insured
If You are under-insured, which means the cost of replacing or repairing the Buildings at the time of 
the loss or damage is more than Your Sum Insured for the Buildings, then We will only pay a 
proportion of the claim. For example, if Your Sum Insured only covers one half of the cost of 
replacing or repairing the Buildings, We will only pay one half of the cost of repair or replacement.
Mrs J complained to Fairmead about its decision and its handling of her claim. Fairmead 
stood by its decision to apply a proportion to the settlement of her claim, but paid her £50 
compensation for poor service. Mrs J disagreed with Fairmeads valuation and said shed 
provided a valuation of the property that supported her version of the reinstatement cost. 
Mrs J brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld and her 
claim paid up to policy limits. He said Fairmeads reinstatement value was reasonable. He 
thought Mrs Js was based on what it would cost her to rebuild and a market valuation. But 
he said Fairmead needed to know what it would cost Fairmead to rebuild the property.
The investigator thought Fairmeads question about the rebuild value wasnt clear, but it was 
clear to the adviser that Mrs J was reducing the sum insured in order to reduce the premium. 
He said the adviser should have told Mrs J how she should calculate the rebuild value, and 
the consequences of not providing the right value. He said although rebuild criteria was set 
out within the policy booklet, there was no mention on the policy schedule. The investigator 
said Fairmead should also pay Mrs J £300 and the cost of her calls in compensation.
Fairmead didnt agree and requested an ombudsmans decision. It said no insurer asks for a 
sum insured based on how much it would cost the policyholder to build their property, or the 
market value. It said the website provided information to help arrive at an appropriate sum, 
but Mrs J thought she knew better. Fairmead said the adviser could have told Mrs J of the 
consequences of under insurance, but this is in the policy. It said Mrs J decided to reduce 
the sum insured as it had gone up due to index linking, in order to lower the premium.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fairmead thinks Mrs J failed to provide accurate information when she answered the rebuild 
cost of her property question and declared the rebuild value of her property to be £91,000. 
Fairmead has obtained a professional valuation at £305,000 which is derived from the 
Building Cost Information Service of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. Mrs J 
contests this. However, Fairmead has provided a surveyors rebuild estimate for the property 
and I have no reason to doubt the accuracy of this assessment. The difference between the 
rebuild cost and market valuations is huge but these are the valuations that Mrs J obtained 
and relied upon.
The relevant law concerning misrepresentation is The Insurance Act 2015. This places a 
duty on the insured to make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer when taking out an 
insurance contract (a policy). And if the insured fails in their duty to make a fair presentation, 
the insurer has certain remedies. But Fairmead hasnt attempted to apply these remedies, 
which can include avoiding the policy and repudiating the claim. And so, I only have to 
consider whether it is fair and reasonable for Fairmead to apply the clause concerning 
proportionate claims to Mrs Js claim (see above). 
There are various ways an insurer can ask a consumer about rebuild cost. Theres no record 
of the original question and Mrs Js response about this from 2011, but Fairmead said it was 
clear in its request for rebuild information. However, it has also acknowledged that the 
adviser could have told Mrs J of the consequences of under insurance during the renewal 
call. When Mrs J renewed her policy in 2019 the extent of the questioning around the basis 
for a rebuild valuation was, Do you know what rebuild value you been basing them on?
The adviser didnt tell Mrs J what has to be included in the rebuild cost and she wasnt given 
additional guidance for completing the application. I think this was important as I think it 
should have been clear to the adviser that Mrs J was basing her valuation on what it would 
have cost her to rebuild the property and local agent market valuations, not the rebuild cost 
as required for the policy. I think Fairmead missed an opportunity to explain to Mrs J the implications of under-insuring 
her property and help her with the elements of the rebuild valuation required to constitute the 
correct insured sum. The adviser should have pointed out to Mrs J how she should calculate 
the rebuild value, and the consequences of not providing the right value. Im not satisfied 
that Fairmead asked a clear question about the rebuild value on the renewal call and 
consequently, I dont think it is reasonable for Fairmead to apply a proportion to the 
settlement of her claim and I think it should be settled up to policy limits.
Mrs J also complained about Fairmeads handling of her claim and Fairmead paid her £50 
for poor service. I have seen that Fairmead caused some delays in its handling of the claim 
and Mrs J has described the personal and financial stress this has caused her. I have also 
found Fairmead communicated poorly with Mrs J. In particular, its final response letter to Mrs 
J mis-spells her name, has the wrong date for the claim and contains other errors. All in all, I 
think Fairmead should pay Mrs J £300 compensation for its poor service  this to include the 
£50 its already paid and should include the cost of her calls.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Js complaint. I require Fairmead 
Insurance Limited to pay Mrs Js claim for damage to her property from her tenant up to the 
policy limits without further consideration of the Sum Insured clause within the policy.
I also require Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mrs J £300 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience its handling of her claim has caused her. This sum to include any phone 
costs Mrs J has incurred. Fairmead may deduct from the £300 any compensation it has 
already paid.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman