DRN-4421120
The complaint
Mr K has complained that esure Insurance Limited trading as esures appointed salvage 
agent caused damage to his car when he made a claim under his car insurance policy. Mr K 
wants esure to meet the costs to repair the additional damage. 
What happened
Mr K was involved in an incident and his car was damaged. He reported the incident to his 
insurer, esure. 
esure arranged for Mr Ks car to be collected by a salvage agent for assessment. Mr K says 
he made it clear from the outset that whatever the outcome, he wanted to retain his car. He 
viewed the damage as minor, which could be easily repaired. 
esure said it wasnt economical for esure to repair Mr Ks car. esure has told us it paid Mr K 
a total loss settlement of £1,489. As esure returned Mr Ks car to him as requested, esure 
deducted a salvage fee of £481 from the market value. 
When Mr Ks car was returned to him, he found additional damage which he said the 
salvage agent had admitted causing when it used a forklift truck to move his car. He wanted 
the damage caused by the salvage agent to be repaired. 
The salvage agent offered Mr K £100 compensation to resolve his complaint. Mr K didnt 
agree this was enough and complained to esure. He provided a copy of an estimate he 
obtained from a garage. To repair the damage caused by the salvage agent, the estimate 
came to £1,030.33 including VAT.
esure apologised and said that sometimes damage happens at a salvage agent. To resolve 
Mr Ks complaint, esure said it would pay him the salvage fee it would have otherwise 
obtained from the salvage agent if it had retained Mr Ks car. 
For the distress and inconvenience caused by the salvage agent, it paid Mr K £200 
compensation. 
Mr K remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our Investigator thought esure should meet the costs to repair the damage caused by the 
salvage agent. 
esure didnt agree. It said the costs to repair Mr Ks car were more than the car is worth and 
would put Mr K in a position of betterment. It says the offer to buy back the salvage for £481 
is fair. So esure wanted an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 September 2023. I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ks 
complaint as I thought esure had done enough to resolve it. 
Mr K didnt agree. He says he paid to have his car repaired when it was returned by the 
salvage agent and has provided a copy of the MOT certificate from December 2022. So he 
says the offer to buy back the car isnt fair. 
I asked Mr K to provide any evidence he had of what he paid for repairs. He says he paid in 
cash and he is unable to reach the mechanic who repaired his car. Hes provided some 
invoices for parts that he bought. 
So as Mr K didnt agree, the case has been passed back to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision remains along the same lines as my provisional decision. 
It seems the salvage agent acknowledges it caused damage to Mr Ks car. It offered Mr K 
£100 compensation in February 2023 to resolve his complaint. esure increased the 
compensation to £200 and offered Mr K £481 as the salvage fee for the car to buy the 
salvage of the car back from Mr K. esure acknowledged that sometimes further damage 
occurs in these circumstances. 
When things go wrong, we look at what the impact was and what an insurer did to put things 
right. The most an insurer needs to pay in the event of a claim is the market value of a car at 
the time of loss. 
We dont decide a valuation, but we can look at whether an insurer has reached its valuation 
in a reasonable way and in line with the policy. We look at the motor trade guides as they 
can provide a valuation based on the same make, model, age, mileage and condition for a 
car similar to Mr Ks. And as more than one guide is available here, weve been able to look 
at the average to see if esure reached a fair valuation. 
Ive checked the motor trade guides and the engineers report with photos of Mr Ks car -. 
Based on the guides for a similar car to Mr Ks - excluding the damage caused by the 
salvage agent - Im satisfied that the market value esure reached at £1,960 is within the 
range of the guides.
Where a customer chooses to retain their car, an insurer is entitled to deduct from the total 
loss settlement a fee for what it would have otherwise received for the salvage. We think this 
is fair as otherwise a customer has received a total loss settlement based on its condition 
before the incident related damage - and also kept their car. This would put a customer in a 
position known as betterment. 
In this case, esure has paid Mr K the market value for his car - and offered to pay him the 
salvage fee to buy the car back. So this puts Mr K in a position where he has funds to buy a 
similar replacement car based on its pre accident condition. Or Mr K can choose to pay for 
the additional repairs - as he has received a total loss settlement for his claim from esure. 
So I think esures offer to pay Mr K £481 is a fair way to resolve his complaint. I dont think 
esure should pay more than this, but I will consider any new representations Mr K may wish 
to make. 
I think the £200 compensation esure has paid for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the additional damage is reasonable. Mr K says he has been using his car far less due to the 
damage to the underside of his car. And he has been put to the trouble of obtaining an 
estimate for the repairs which arent related to the incident. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mr K has provided some invoices and a hand written 
receipt for parts he says he paid for to have his car repaired. I cannot accept the hand 
written receipt as evidence of proof of payment of £200 for a list of parts. There is nothing to 
validate what is written on the piece of paper. 
On reviewing the evidence I can consider, the parts Mr K paid for come to a total of £248.92. 
So there isnt sufficient new evidence to persuade me to change my view set out in my provisional decision. Im satisfied that the offer esure gave is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman