DRN-3757584
Complaint
Mr W has complained about loans Lendable Ltd (Lendable) provided to him. He says his 
income exceeded his expenditure and he shouldnt have been provided with these loans.
Background
Lendable provided Mr W with a first loan for £9,000.00 in August 2018. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 47 monthly instalments of £346.51 and a final instalment of £539.36. This loan 
was repaid in full a couple of months later. 
In November 2018, Mr W was provided with a second loan for £3,170.00. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of £80.40 and a final instalment of £59.98.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr W and Lendable had told us. And she thought that 
Lendable hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr W unfairly. So she didnt recommend 
that Mr Ws complaint be upheld. 
Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ws complaint.
Lendable needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Lendable needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether      
Mr W could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Lendable provided Mr W with loans for £9,000.00 and £3,170.00 in August 2018 and 
November 2018. These loans were due to be repaid in 48 instalments of just under £350 
and 60 instalments of just over £80 respectively. 
Lendable says it agreed to Mr Ws applications after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr W could 
comfortably afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr W 
has said he was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr W and Lendable have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Lendable has provided a record of the results of its credit 
searches. Lendable searches appear to show that Mr W had existing credit but that his 
commitments at the time were relatively well maintained. Crucially, according to the credit 
searches, Mr Ws debt total at the time of the respective applications were reasonable in 
comparison to his income, appeared to be relatively well managed and Mr W said that he 
was going to use loan 1 to consolidate some of his existing debts.
I accept that Mr Ws actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Lendable obtained. The amount of the monthly 
payment for loan 1 and the term of the loan do persuade me that Lendable ought to have 
carried out further checks before providing this loan. 
Equally, I accept that if Lendable had gone into the depth of checks I think it should have for 
loan one at least  such as verifying Mr Ws non-credit related living costs  it may have 
reached a different answer. But despite having been given plenty of opportunity to do so,       
Mr W hasnt provided anything at all to demonstrate what his financial circumstances were 
like at the time, or clear evidence to show that the payments were demonstrably 
unaffordable. 
Ive also kept in mind that loan two was taken relatively soon after loan 1. But loan 1 was 
repaid a couple of months into the term. And loan 2 was for a significantly lower amount and 
had a much lower rate of interest. So it wasnt immediately obvious that Mr W might have 
been taking loan 2 because of the effect loan 1 left on his finances. And there isnt anything 
else obvious in either of these applications which lead me to think that further checks would 
have shown the loan was demonstrably unaffordable.
As this is the case, I dont think that Lendable did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Mr W  Ive not been provided with anything to show that further checks would more likely 
than not have shown loan 1 to be unaffordable. And the second loan was provided in 
circumstances where Mr Ws indebtedness, at least to it, didnt appear to be increasing 
unsustainably. 
So overall I dont think that Lendable treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with his loans. And Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr W. But I hope that Mr W will understand the 
reasons for my final decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman