DRN-2651018
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) made an entry about him on a fraud 
prevention database following an application he made for a buy to let mortgage.
What happened
In 2018, Mr A applied via a broker to BoI for a buy to let mortgage. It refused the application 
and Mr A was able to get his mortgage with another lender.
Later, Mr A applied online for a bank account with another bank. The account was opened 
successfully, but a few weeks later the bank closed it. When Mr A complained, the bank 
advised him to make a subject access request to CIFAS, an industry fraud prevention 
database.
Mr A discovered that as well as refusing his mortgage application, BoI had made an entry 
about him on the CIFAS database. The database entry was for application fraud and said 
that Mr A had failed to declare a County Court judgment (CCJ) when he made his 
application.
Mr A complained to BoI. It refused to remove the entry, and so Mr A brought his complaint to 
us. He said he had told his broker that he had had a CCJ recorded against him in the past, 
but it was now settled.
Our investigator thought that it was the brokers fault that the CCJ hadnt been declared, and 
said BoI should remove the marker. BoI didnt agree. It said that the CCJ wasnt the only 
concern it had about Mr As application, and asked for an ombudsman to decide the issue.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The application form includes the question Has the applicant ever had a court judgment or 
default made against them?. This question has been answered No. Its accepted by all 
parties that this wasnt accurate.
Mr A has obtained call recordings of his conversations with his broker, which Ive listened to. 
Theres a long and detailed discussion about the CCJ, its implications for Mr As application 
for a mortgage and all the relevant background. In a later call, Mr A agrees that the broker 
can complete and submit the application online on his behalf.
Im therefore satisfied that Mr A told his broker that he had had a recent CCJ, intending that 
it should be declared as part of his application. He also provided a copy of his credit file, 
showing the CCJ. The broker then completed the application. And Im also satisfied that it 
was the brokers error that led to an incorrect answer being given on the complaint form. I 
dont think theres evidence that Mr A tried to hide the CCJ or to conceal it from BoI. 
BoI said that the CCJ Mr A had specifically discussed with the broker wasnt the only CCJ he 
had had  it had found evidence of charging orders over his property, showing he had had 
judgments against him in the past. And it said Mr A was director of a company  which also 
hadnt been declared on the application. It therefore wasnt prepared to remove the entry on 
the database.
Ive borne in mind the principles CIFAS sets out for its members, which are publicly available 
on its website. One of the principles sets out the standard of proof for making an entry  
which is that there must be reasonable grounds to believe there has been a fraud or 
attempted fraud, supported by clear relevant and rigorous evidence that could be reported to 
the police. There are various criminal offences that amount to fraud, but a common feature is 
seeking to gain financially through dishonesty.
Im not persuaded that BoI has shown that this threshold was reached. Its application form 
asks about CCJs, and had the broker followed Mr As instructions, the relevant question 
would have been answered Yes. And that would have been true  not misleading. 
Although it appears that Mr A has historic CCJs as well as the recent one he specifically 
discussed with the broker, Ive not seen any evidence that he actually saw the question on 
the form before the broker completed it. Im satisfied that he gave the broker information he 
was asked for and Im not persuaded theres clear and rigorous evidence that Mr A was 
dishonestly seeking to mislead BoI. Had his instructions been followed, BoI would have 
received an accurate answer to the question it asked.
Mr A accepts he was a director of another company. That company appears to have been 
created and then wound up without ever trading.
BoIs application form does not ask for details of directorships. It asks for details of income. 
And if Mr A was not drawing an income from the company, it would not be misleading that it 
wasnt mentioned on the form. Again, Im not persuaded that theres clear and rigorous 
evidence that Mr A set out to dishonestly mislead BoI about his income.
Putting things right
When BoI received the application form and carried out its underwriting checks, it discovered 
that the application form was incorrectly completed, apparently concealing the fact that Mr A 
had had CCJs recorded against him. I dont think it was unreasonable at that point, based on 
what it knew at the time, for it to have made the entry on the database. 
But once Mr A provided evidence to show that there was a mistake by his broker, rather than 
a dishonest intention on his part to mislead, the rationale for recording the entry falls away. 
And I therefore think its fair for BoI to remove it now. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of 
Ireland (UK) Plc to remove any fraud prevention database entry it has made about Mr A in 
connection with this mortgage application.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman