DRN-3891218
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) have removed his overdraft which 
he has had with no issues for 20 years. He is concerned he no longer has the use of the 
overdraft facility as a safety net and will be forced to use other high cost credit.  
What happened
Mr L held a bank account with Barclays with an arranged overdraft limit of £2,650. Following 
a review of the account Barclays wrote to Mr L on 28 March 2022 and advised it was 
removing his overdraft as Barclays thought the limit might be set to high and it hadnt been 
used in the previous 12 months. 
The overdraft was removed on 16 May and this was confirmed by a push notification the 
following day.
Mr L complained. Barclays explained that given Mr Ls incoming credits over the past 12 
months it didnt think the overdraft limit was sustainable. Barclays says in the future should 
Mr L feel he need an overdraft he can re-apply although this would remain subject to status 
and application. 
Mr L was dis-satisfied with this as he is no longer working and doesnt think he would be 
accepted for an overdraft now. The withdrawal of his overdraft makes him feel financially 
insecure. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ls concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Barclays hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr L unfairly as Barclays provided the 
correct notice and were entitled to withdrawal the overdraft facility in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. 
Mr L disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
My role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and see if the bank has 
done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award modest compensation 
that we think is fair and reasonable.
Mr L is complaining that following a review of his account over the last 12 months Barclays 
took the decision to remove his overdraft facility. Before I go any further, I want to be clear in 
saying that I havent considered whether the banking facilities Barclays is offering Mr L are 
fair and reasonable. Ultimately, what services a bank offers  including how much money it 
is willing to lend - is a commercial decision. Just like it is up to Mr L to decide whether to 
accept what Barclays is offering or to take his business elsewhere. And providing what 
Barclays has done is allowed within the terms and conditions of the account, it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ls account under section 5 say that if a customer has an 
arranged overdraft, Barclays can end it any time and for any reason and that it will give 30 
days written notice.
I can see that Barclays gave Mr L the required notice on 28 March 2022 that his overdraft 
would be removed, so I cant say Barclays has done anything wrong. And although Barclays 
doesnt have to explain why it took the decision to remove Mr Ls overdraft it has indicated 
that it was concerned that based on the incoming credits into Mr Ls account the overdraft 
limit was set too high and that as Mr L hadnt used the overdraft in over a year it didnt think 
the removal of it would cause him financial hardship.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Ls statements for the past year and looking at the monthly account 
turnover Im in agreement with Barclays that the credit turnover is around half the overdraft 
limit that was in place and an overdraft of £2,650 may not be sustainable. So I dont think it 
wouldve been responsible for Barclays to allow the overdraft at this limit to continue. And 
given that the account currently has an average balance of around £2,000 I cant say Mr L 
has been put in financial hardship by the withdrawal of the overdraft facility.
Barclays have said if Mr L feels he needs an overdraft he can re-apply and that his 
application would be assessed on his current financial circumstances. I understand Mr L is 
unhappy about this as he doesnt feel that he would be accepted for an overdraft given he is 
no longer working and living off his pension.  But Barclays does have a duty to ensure that 
any lending it makes is affordable so any application by Mr L for credit needs to be assessed 
on his current circumstances.
So I cant say that Barclays has done anything wrong when on review of Mr Ls account and 
overdraft facility it took the decision to withdraw it.  
So it follows that I do not uphold this complaint as Barclays has not made an error or done 
anything wrong.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman