DRN-4159562
The complaint
Ms B complains that Studio Retail Limited (Studio) provided her with increasing credit that 
she couldnt afford and which led to her having money problems.
What happened
In October 2019 Studio approved Ms B for a catalogue shopping account with a limit of 
£300. This limit was increased by Studio three times until it reached £525 by December 
2020. It would appear that an, arrears recovery procedure, was entered into by Studio 
in December 2021, but that at present the account remains open and owned by Studio.
Ms B complained to Studio that the borrowing had caused her financial difficulties, which it 
did not accept. Our investigator reviewed the evidence and thought that Studio hadnt done 
anything wrong in allowing the account to be opened, and in increasing the credit limit on the 
first two occasions. But he thought that by the time of the third credit limit increase, Studio 
ought to have identified that the further borrowing was not affordable and sustainable for Ms 
B. Ms B accepted that, but Studio didnt, and asked that the case be the subject of a final 
decision by an Ombudsman.
As there is no longer a dispute about the initial opening of the account and the first two credit 
limit increases, I wont be commenting on them. The complaint is now solely about the 
increase in December 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it and Ill explain why.
The investigator thought that Studio should not have increased the credit limit on this 
account in December 2020, and I agree for broadly the same reasons.
Studio is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time of 
these credit limit increases, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I 
wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to 
ensure that Ms R would be able to repay the borrowing it was making available to her in 
a sustainable way. As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that she could manage the 
repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, Ms R needed to be able to meet all her financial commitments and not have to 
borrow elsewhere to repay Studio for the credit limit to be considered affordable and 
sustainable.
Following the investigators view, Studio clarified that, in addition to having full information 
about Ms Rs account conduct, it also obtained some high-level credit file data in December 
2020. What is clear to me is that it carried out sufficient checks to identify that any further 
borrowing was not affordable and sustainable for Ms R. Theoretically, I accept the possibility 
that more detailed checks could have provided evidence that it in fact was, despite what the 
existing information showed. But it didnt carry out any further checks, so that is purely 
hypothetical. In any event, Studio knew enough to identify that Ms R was likely experiencing 
wider financial difficulties and that this additional borrowing was not affordable and 
sustainable for her.
There were several issues with the Studio account conduct which strongly suggested that 
Ms R was having difficulties. They were repeated failures to stay within the previously 
agreed credit limit during the seven months prior to this increase; the application of a late 
payment charge; and the fact that Ms R was not making any serious in roads into repaying 
the balance of the account.
Studio disputes the significance of these issues. It highlights that it was the application of 
interest and charges  not the value of the goods purchased  which led to, very small 
excesses of her credit limit. It says that the cost of her orders was always, within the 
agreed credit limit Even if that is factually correct (which isnt entirely clear from the 
account records available to me) I fail to see the relevance of the make up of the balance 
owed in terms of whether it was or was not within the agreed credit limit. Either way, Ms R 
owed Studio an amount that was in excess of that limit. Which is not a positive indicator.
Studio also highlights that it was Ms Rs orders that kept her balance high in the months 
preceding this increase  not interest or charges. It says that she was often making in 
excess of the minimum repayment each month, but then used her credit limit to purchase 
more goods. Although I can see that she was indeed making larger repayments than the 
minimum required, that in isolation is not sufficient to demonstrate that the borrowing was 
affordable and sustainable. She may have been borrowing elsewhere to make those 
payments for reasons of her own.
Finally, Studio says that it believes the late payment mentioned was the result of 
forgetfulness rather than any financial difficulty, as it was an isolated incident. I agree that, 
on its own, this late payment would not be enough to draw a conclusion of financial 
difficulties. However, in aggregate, all the issues taken together form a picture suggestive of 
financial problems.
Crucially, the high-level credit file data Studio obtained in December 2020 showed that Ms R 
had recently been subject to a County Court Judgement (CCJ) against her. In October 2019, 
Studio was aware of the existence of delinquent accounts on Ms Rs credit file, but by the 
time of this credit limit increase, it knew things had deteriorated to the extent that she had 
now received a CCJ against her. As a result of this information, Studio itself classified Ms R 
as being at, Risk of Financial Difficulties. Despite this, its only action was to increase 
her credit limit by more than 30%. Studio says that the increase being applied was still 
within risk appetite at this time. However, of greater relevance to my decision are the rules 
and regulations in force at that time  not Studios risk appetite.
On the basis of the information it had available to it, I conclude that Studio cannot have 
reasonably concluded that this credit limit increase was affordable and sustainable for Ms R, 
bearing in mind the applicable regulations. It therefore follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
As I understand it, this account remains open and owned by Studio. In order to put things 
right in this instance, Studio will need to refund all of the interest and charges applied to this 
account as a result of irresponsible lending.
To achieve that, I require Studio to take the following steps.a) Rework the account to remove all interest and charges (including any BNPL interest) 
incurred on the account since 29 December 2020 on balances exceeding £400.
b) Calculate what Ms B would have owed it if the credit limit had stayed at £400.
c) Apply any and all repayments made by Ms B since 29 December 2020 to that 
adjusted balance identified in b).
d) If that calculation means the adjusted balance would have been cleared, Studio must 
refund any remaining sums to Ms B with 8% simple interest*, calculated from the 
date of overpayment to the date of settlement.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Studio to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Studio Retail Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman