DRN-2064648
The complaint
Mr L complains that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims management company.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy. The policy was taken out in November 1999 
by post. The policy covered Mr L for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr L didn't agree 
saying, in summary, that:
He didnt know what PPI was, so couldnt have made an assessment as to whether 
he wanted it.
If hed known about the insurance, he would have made a claim when he was off 
work due to an operation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive, or contradictory, as some of it is here, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint for the following reasons:
Mr L said he couldnt remember taking out the PPI and that he didnt know he had it. Im not 
surprised he cant remember as the application was more than 20 years ago. Capital One 
says Mr L took out the PPI when he applied for his card by post. It doesnt have a copy of 
the application, which also isn't surprising. So, as noted above, I need to think about what is 
most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Having seen applications that were in use when Mr L applied for his credit card, I think it 
most likely that the form he would have seen made it clear the PPI was optional and that 
Mr L chose to take it.
Capital One didn't recommended the PPI to Mr L so it didn't have to make sure it was 
suitable for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr L chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. He wasn't affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr L would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, despite what he says 
now, I think he would still have taken out the policy.
Ive taken into consideration that Mr L says he would have received some sick pay from his 
employer and that he had some savings. But the PPI would have given him peace of mind 
that his payments would have been covered for up to 12 months if he couldn't work due to 
sickness or an accident and covered him if he'd become unemployed. So I think he would 
have thought the PPI could have been a useful benefit.
Mr L also says he didnt claim when he had time off work due to an operation. But this was 
after his credit card account had closed and the PPI had been cancelled. So this doesn't 
change my conclusion.
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr L about that. Because Capital One didnt tell 
Mr L, that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc, does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman