The complaint
Mr H complains about esure Insurance Limited and the service they provided when 
progressing his insurance claim through an arbitration scheme.
What happened
On 9 July 2019, Mr H contacted Esure to make a claim on his car insurance policy following 
a road traffic accident. He provided his version of events regarding the accident 
circumstances and Esure agreed to proceed with the claim on a non-fault basis.
Esure were unable to agree liability with the Third-Party Insurer (TPI) as the third party 
disputed Mr Hs version of events. So, the claim was passed to arbitration in September. 
Esure received the arbitrators report in October, which held Mr H at fault for the accident. 
They made Mr H aware that the claim would be closed on a fault basis around the same 
time. Mr H was unhappy that hed been deemed to be at fault so he raised a complaint.
Mr H complained that Esure hadnt made him aware the claim had been passed to 
arbitration. So, he didnt think hed been given an opportunity to provide further information 
that wouldve supported his claim. He was unhappy the arbitrator hadnt found in his favour 
and thought this was due to Esure failing to act in his best interests. So, he wanted this to be 
recognised and the arbitrators decision to be appealed.
Esure uphold Mr Hs complaint. They agreed they had failed to make Mr H aware that his 
claim had been sent for arbitration and didnt think this was fair. But they didnt agree that 
they were at fault for the arbitrator finding in the other partys favour. So, they offered Mr H a 
payment of £100 to recognise their failure to keep him updated on the arbitration process.
Mr H wasnt happy with this. He didnt think Esure had provided all the necessary information 
to fully support his claim and so he thought they were to blame for the claim now being 
classed as his fault. So, he didnt think the £100 was a fair offer. As Mr H remained unhappy, 
he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She agreed that Esure had 
failed to make Mr H aware his claim had been passed to arbitration and agreed this was 
unfair. But she didnt think Esure had done anything wrong that had impacted Mr Hs claim 
or the decision of the arbitrator. So, she thought the £100 Esure had offered was fair and 
didnt think they needed to do anything further.
Mr H didnt agree. He thought Esure had left out key information and hadnt provided images 
he took of the damage to his car after the accident. He felt these images showed his version 
of events were true and that these wouldve persuaded the arbitrator. Our investigator spoke 
to Esure about this and decided that it was unlikely the images wouldve changed the 
DRN-1957514outcome of the arbitration process. She also explained it was unlikely a witness statement 
from Mr Hs partner wouldve influenced the arbitrators decision and she wouldnt have been 
classed as independent. So, her view remained the same.
Mr H still didnt agree. He thought it was reasonable to expect the images and his version of 
events to be considered together so he maintained Esure had failed to act in his best 
interests. As Mr H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. I understand this isnt the 
outcome Mr H was hoping for and Ive considered all the points hes raised before coming to 
this decision. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Mr H. Ive no doubt that Mr H 
is sure he wasnt at fault for the accident that occurred. So, I can understand how frustrated 
and aggrieved hed be when finding out he was ruled 100% liable. But it isnt my role to rule 
on the liability of the claim or the comment on the arbitrators decision. My role is to focus on 
the service Esure provided and to decide whether I think theyve acted both fairly and 
reasonably. And if I dont think they have, consider what action should be taken to put things 
right. And in this situation, while I agree Esure have made a mistake when not updating Mr 
H about the arbitration process, I think the actions they took the put things right were 
reasonable.
Its not in dispute that Esure acted unfairly when they failed to make Mr H aware that the 
claim had been passed to arbitration. I wouldve expected Esure to keep Mr H reasonably 
updated on the status of his claim and I think making him aware of the arbitration was part of 
this. By not doing so, I think Mr H was left both shocked and frustrated at finding out hed 
been ruled 100% liable. And I can understand why he was left feeling as though hed been 
excluded from this process.
But I dont think Mr H lost out on an opportunity to provide more information. Ive seen Esure 
asked Mr H on 15 July to provide any further information he had, included any CCTV 
footage that may be available and any independent witness statements he was able to 
obtain. Mr H didnt provide this information in the two months leading up to the date the 
claim was referred to arbitration. And Ive seen no evidence to show Mr H has ever had this 
information to provide. So, while I still think Esure shouldve made Mr H aware they were 
progressing the claim to arbitration, I dont think this affected the potential success of his 
claim.
Ive also seen the terms and conditions of Mr Hs insurance policy, which state that Esure 
have full discretion in the settlement of your claim or any legal proceedings that arise and 
we may take over, defend or settle the claim, or take up any claim in your name for our own 
benefit. So, I think Esure were able to progress the claim as they saw fit and acted 
reasonably by taking it to arbitration itself. Im aware that Esure had an agreement with the 
TPI to use an arbitration scheme in these situations and using the scheme helped speed up 
the process and keep down the costs of the claim. So, I think Esure were acting fairly and in 
the best interests of Mr H.
But Ive also considered Mr Hs comments relating to the information Esure used to support 
the claim with the arbitration scheme. Mr H doesnt think Esure included all the relevant 
information, and in particular the photographs he took of the damage to his car after the event. 
When describing the accident circumstances, Esure explained on Mr Hs behalf:
TP HIT PH WHEN TURNING - was driving along and the car in front has gone to turn off 
and then changed his mind, he's pulled back in narrowly avoiding a van coming the other 
way and bumped into me.
While Im aware this doesnt include Mr Hs account of the third party having a disagreement 
with a cyclist, I think this is a reasonable summary of Mr Hs version of events. I dont think 
Mr Hs assumption that the third party had a disagreement with a cyclist wouldve impacted 
the thought process of the arbitrator and the summary Esure have provided depicts an 
accurate image of the road positioning Mr H explained. So, I dont think theyve done 
anything wrong by providing this summary.
Im also aware Mr H is unhappy Esure didnt provide the images he sent Esure which 
showed the damage to his and the third parties cars after the event had taken place. Mr H 
thinks that, as the third-party car suffered damage to the front passenger side rather than 
the rear, it supports his version of events. Esure have explained they didnt provide the 
images as they showed the damage after the event so didnt think this helped decide liability 
of what happened when the actual event occurred. 
As I explained above, its not my role to comment on the liability or the decision of the 
arbitrator. So, for me to agree Esure have acted unreasonably, Id need to be sure that the 
failure to provide the images fundamentally impacted arbitrators ability to reach a fair 
decision. And I dont think this is the case. 
The images Mr H provide supported both parties version of events that the third party moved 
right before returning to the left had side of the road. I dont think the placement of the 
damage wouldve provided a clear insight into whether the third party attempted to turn right 
into a side road or to overtake a cyclist. And Im aware the arbitrator felt they were able to 
make this ruling without them. I think its important to mention that in similar situations, its 
rare that we find images of damage impact any decision on liability. 
Had Mr H had CCTV footage or independent witness statements confirming either one of 
these, which Esure asked Mr H if he had, then I think this is the sort of evidence that 
wouldve impacted the liability decision. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to say Esure 
have done anything wrong by not providing the images to be considered by the arbitration 
scheme. And I dont think they need to do anything further in relation to this.
Because of the above, I think the £100 Esure offered is a fair one to recognise the frustration 
and upset Mr H wouldve experienced when he was told an arbitration scheme had looked 
into his claim and ruled that liability was found against him.
My final decision
For the reasons outline above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about esure Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 Josh Haskey
Ombudsman