DRN-4472420
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the settlement paid by AXA PPP Healthcare Limited trading as AXA 
Health under a private medical insurance claim. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Core Cover Table under the policy says that a cash payment will be made (under the 
Extra Care Option) if the insured has free in-patient treatment under the NHS, and that AXA 
will pay £100 a night up to £2,000 a year. It then says:
We pay this when:
you are admitted for in-patient treatment before midnight; and
we would have covered your treatment if you had had it privately.
Words in bold are specifically defined. The policy defines in-patient as:
a patient who is admitted to hospital and who occupies a bed overnight or longer, for 
medical reasons.
Mrs T was admitted to an NHS hospital for in-patient treatment that AXA would have 
covered privately. She remained in hospital for 91 nights, so AXA paid Mrs T the maximum 
amount of £2,000. Im satisfied this was in line with the policy terms. 
Mrs T has referred to a quote which says there is Out of Directory cash benefit which is £50 
a day for day-patient treatment, and £50 a night for in-patient treatment. She points out 
theres no limit for this. Mrs T thinks AXA should settle her claim on this basis, rather than 
limit it to £2,000. 
The quote confirms the summary of the benefits should be read in conjunction with the 
handbook (policy). Ive therefore considered what the policy says about this. 
The Core Cover Table says there is a cash payment (£50 a night for in-patient treatment and 
£50 a day for day-patient treatment) if the insured uses a hospital or day-patient unit that is 
not in AXAs Directory of Hospitals (in other words, out of directory). It then refers the 
reader to section 3.8 of the policy for details. 
Section 3.8 says if the treatment is covered by the membership, then AXA will pay the 
hospital fees in full. So long as the insured uses a hospital, day-patient unit etc in its 
Directory of Hospitals. 
It then says:
 
What happens if I choose a different hospital or scanning centre for treatment?
Our cover for private treatment at places not listed in our Directory of Hospitals depends 
on whether you have the Extended Cover Option.
If you do not have the Extended Cover Option and you have private in-patient or day-
patient treatment at a hospital, day-patient unit or use a scanning centre that is not in our 
Directory of Hospitals, we will not pay for your treatment. We will only pay a small cash 
payment as shown in the Core Cover table when the treatment received would have been 
covered by your membership. You will need to pay the majority of the cost yourself. This 
could be a significant amount.
Im satisfied this makes it clear that the £50 a night for in-patient treatment and £50 a day for 
day-patient treatment only applies when someone has private treatment at a place that is not 
on AXAs Directory of Hospitals. 
Mrs T didnt have private treatment, she had NHS treatment. So this section of the cover 
doesnt apply to her claim. AXA has therefore correctly assessed the claim under the Extra 
Care Option. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman