DRN-2761547
The complaint
Mr Ds representative has complained, on his behalf, that John Dyer (Life & Pensions) 
Limited gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefits from his occupational 
pension scheme (OPS)  the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a personal pension 
plan (PPP). Mr Ds representative has said that the transfer wasnt in his best interests.  
What happened
Mr D approached John Dyer for advice about his deferred benefits with the BSPS, having 
previously been a client of a different business which had been unable to proceed with the 
advice provision. He first met with John Dyer in September 2017. 
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) had made the announcement that the 
terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That 
announcement said that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size 
could be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ds employer would be set up  
the BSPS 2. 
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit 
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was 
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in 
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor 
scheme, the BSPS 2, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) or into a private arrangement, 
such as a PPP.
A deadline was set for members to notify the scheme administrators as to their choice in 
December 2017. 
No fact find document has been forthcoming for this complaint, but Mr Ds circumstances 
were as follows:
He was 34 years old, married, with three dependent children. 
He was employed, earning £31,000 pa. Mrs D was also employed, earning £3,500 
pa.
He was a member of his employers defined contribution scheme.
He owned his home, worth around £130,000, which had a mortgage of £60,000, with 
an 18 year term remaining. 
He and his wife had cash on deposit of between £15,000 and £20,000.
Mr D was in good health.
He was recorded as having a high-medium attitude to investment risk.
In terms of Mr Ds deferred benefit entitlement, Mr D had been a member of the BSPS for 15 
years. He had a normal retirement age of 65, at which point John Dyer said that he could 
expect an annual income of £10,928, or tax free cash and a reduced income of £7,728 pa.
Mr D received a transfer value from the BSPS for his deferred benefits of £143,511 in 
September 2017.
Within the suitability report issued in January 2018, Mr Ds objectives were recorded as 
follows:
To control his pension fund and remove the uncertainty surrounding his BSPS 
benefits.
He wanted the option to either fully retire or phase in benefits, through flexible 
income, once he was above the minimum retirement age of 55. 
To secure the option of a lump sum payment for his wife and children in the event of 
his death.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) indicated the amount of growth required by the 
transferred funds to match those being relinquished in the scheme  the critical yield. It 
concluded that the PPP would need to grow by 5.6% pa to match the BSPS 2 benefits at a 
retirement age of 65, or 5.0% pa if tax free cash was taken.
A projection was also made of the required yield to match the PPF benefits. This showed 
that, for age 65, the PPP would need to grow by 4.9% pa to match the PPF benefits, or 4.6% 
if tax free cash was taken. 
At a retirement age of 60, the PPP would need to grow by 5.5% to match the PPF benefits, 
or 5.2% if tax free cash was taken.
The fee to complete the transfer value analysis was recorded as being £4,305. There would 
also be an ongoing advice fee of 0.5% pa, along with fund charges of 0.72% and platform 
administration costs of 0.362% pa.
John Dyer recommended that Mr D transfer his deferred benefits in order for him to achieve 
his objectives, and Mr D accepted the recommendation.
Mr D then complained to John Dyer through his representative, but it said that it didnt 
receive a reply to this. And so it referred the complaint to this service.
We then received a response to the complaint from John Dyer, which may be summarised 
as follows:
Mr D was referred to John Dyer in late December 2017 by a colleague, who was an 
existing client. Hed previously taken advice from another local firm of advisers and 
had decided to transfer his defined benefits.
The paperwork had already been completed and sent to the receiving pension 
provider. But following an intervention by the regulator, the prior firm of advisers was 
instructed to cease all transfer advice, and the receiving provider declined to proceed 
with the transfer.
Mr D approached John Dyer to assist him and he was able to negotiate an extension 
to the expiry of his transfer value with the BSPS administrators.
Although John Dyer explained that it would need to begin the transfer advice process 
again, Mr D informed it that he hadnt changed his mind and still wanted to transfer.
Mr Ds rationale was that he was concerned about the direction of his employer and 
the position of the pension scheme  especially that it might fall into the PPF. He was 
also attracted to the flexibility of benefits, the ability to retire early and the lump sum 
death benefits which were associated with a transfer.Although separate life cover was discussed to provide a lump sum benefit if he 
retained his deferred benefits, this was discounted on the grounds of cost.
Mr D hadnt disclosed the two buy to let flats that he owned.
John Dyer explained the services it could offer, along with a discussion in respect of 
his circumstances and objectives, and it provided a detailed comparison of the 
benefits of the BSPS and a PPP. A discussion also occurred in respect of the 
ramifications of the BSPS entering the PPF, or the BSPS 2.
It then obtained two TVAS reports, one of which used the BSPS 2 for comparison 
purposes, and Mr D took these away to consider. On the basis of the critical yields, 
an actively managed portfolio was recommended, which matched Mr Ds attitude to 
risk and had demonstrated good performance over the last few years.
Although the letter of complaint had said that the mid rate of growth assumed in the 
illustration was below the critical yield, certain assumptions were made in producing 
those figures and were adjusted for inflation of 2.5% pa. They were only a guide in 
todays terms and may have no bearing on the actual pension value.
The TVAS indicated that a higher amount of tax free cash could be available from the 
PPP, even at the mid band rate of growth of 4.3%. Given the performance of the 
selected fund over the last three years, an assumption of growth somewhere 
between that mid band growth rate and the higher rate of 7.3% pa wouldnt be 
unreasonable, thereby resulting in an improved situation. Even at growth of 4.3% pa, 
Mr D would be able to match the scheme pension and have a remaining fund at age 
90 of £153,000.
At the time of the advice, the entire British Steel workforce were fearful about their 
job security. The defined contribution scheme was in its infancy, and had Mr D been 
made redundant, this would have been of little value.
Mr D was adamant that he wished to transfer and he enquired about the progress of 
the transfer on a regular basis. If he had any doubts, then surely the regulators 
intervention on the advice process with the previous firm would have been 
questioned.
Our investigation
One of our investigators considered the matter, and recommended that the complaint be 
upheld. He said the following in summary:
The regulators requirement when considering a transfer of defined benefits was that 
it should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests.
Although there were legitimate concerns about the future of the employer and the 
scheme, these concerns could have been allayed.
Mr D was recorded as having an objective of early retirement, but he was 34 and so 
26 years from his desired retirement age and 31 years from the scheme retirement 
age. The objective of early retirement couldnt have been that firm at Mr Ds age, and 
certainly not sufficiently so to justify the transfer on that basis. There was also no 
record of the income Mr D might need in retirement, or any exploration of other means of producing that income.
Mr D would also have built up further defined contributions benefits which he could 
have accessed flexibly between 60 and 65 if required. Although his employment 
prospects may have been uncertain, it was reasonable to assume that hed build up 
substantial benefits in the intervening years.
As Mr D was young and in good health, there was no reason for death benefits to 
have been of significant concern.
The investigator then considered the required critical yield to match the scheme 
benefits. He noted that Mr Ds attitude to risk had been recorded as high-medium, but 
he expressed concern that, whilst the neither agree nor disagree answers Mr D had 
given in the risk questionnaire may have fed into a medium assessment, they might 
have in fact indicated that Mr D had no frame of reference. The investigator wasnt  
persuaded that the assessment was a particularly reliable assessment of Mr Ds 
attitude to risk.
Based upon the regulators standard mid band growth rate of 5%, Mr D had no clear 
prospect of improving on the scheme benefits. The investigator also took into 
account the discount rate for the term to retirement, which was between 4.6% and 
4.7% - and this indicated the same.
The investigator noted the comments about the funds past performance, but also 
said that it had only been running for four years and that this wouldnt have been a 
reliable indicator as to how it might perform in the future, over the next 26 years.
He also didnt think that it could be reliably concluded that flexi drawdown would have 
been suitable for Mr D in 26 to 31 years time. He shouldnt have been making an 
irreversible decision about his retirement at age 34, given the valuable guarantees 
within the scheme benefits.
On the basis of the lengthy term until retirement, along with the consequent 
uncertainty over rates of return and inflation, the investigator thought that it was 
difficult to conclude that transferring was clearly in Mr Ds best interests.
Had Mr D been advised not to transfer, the investigator didnt think that he would 
have insisted on doing so, given his lack of investment experience and the generally 
vague nature of his objectives.
Having concluded that the transfer advice was unsuitable, the investigator recommended 
that John Dyer undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators guidance, 
on the basis that Mr D would have retained his deferred benefits in the scheme and moved 
into the BSPS 2. He also recommended that John Dyer pay Mr D an additional £300 in 
respect of the distress and inconvenience he would have been caused by the matter.
Mr Ds representative accepted the investigators view. But John Dyer disagreed with the 
investigators conclusions, along with aspects of Mr Ds own statement in bringing the 
complaint, saying the following in summary:
It reiterated that Mr D approached it after advice had been given by a previous 
business. It also said that everything was explained in full to Mr D over the course of 
two meetings. When discussing early retirement (one of Mr Ds objectives), the flexibility of the PPP 
was discussed, which would afford him options in terms of taking tax free cash and/or 
income on a flexible basis to suit his needs and requirements  for example, taking 
larger amounts before the state pension became payable. By contrast, the only 
format of taking scheme benefits was through tax free cash and pension income.
Once Mr D had been informed that the prior firm of advisers had been instructed to 
stop its advice process by the FCA, Mr D didnt decide to stop at that point.
At no point in either of the meetings, or in a subsequent review, did Mr D advise John 
Dyer of his two buy to let properties and attached mortgages.
Its process was to initially approach every transfer of defined benefits as being 
unsuitable, as set out in the report to Mr D.
It rejected the investigators comments on early retirement, saying that in order to 
give advice it needed to establish the clients objectives  and retiring early was a 
reasonable objective. With this in mind, John Dyer discussed the flexibility offered by 
a PPP.
The investigator had incorrectly characterised Mr Ds objectives as being to retire 
early, take benefits flexibly and increase his pension. But they were in fact to take 
control of his pension fund and remove the uncertainty surrounding the BSPS, having 
the option to fully retire early or phase in pension benefits before age 65, gaining 
flexibility of income, and to secure a lump sum death benefit for his wife and children.
The death benefits were fully discussed and the lump sum was considered to be 
preferable to a small pension paid only to Mrs D.
The questionnaire used to assess Mr Ds attitude to risk was an industry standard 
tool. Once the answers to the questions had been used to generate a score, 
discussions were held as to whether the results were accurate, and they could have 
been adjusted at any time. Mr Ds agreement of the acceptable level of risk was an 
indication that he fully understood the risks involved in proceeding with the transfer.
The investigators assessment of Mr D as having limited investment experience 
through his defined contribution scheme membership, with no personal investment 
previously, was at odds with the undisclosed fact that he had two buy to let 
properties. This presented questions as to Mr Ds credibility and his motive for 
complaining.
The investigator had also concluded that Mr D shouldnt have made irreversible 
decisions about the shape of his retirement benefits at his age, but had never met or 
spoken to Mr D. John Dyer questioned the right to dictate to someone else what they 
should or shouldnt do, especially to a complete stranger.
John Dyer also pointed to what it considered an inconsistency in the investigators 
view that it should have relied on assumptions about his future retirement plans, 
whilst also making assumptions in his own findings.
As to the conclusion that, suitably advised, Mr D wouldnt have transferred his 
scheme benefits, John Dyer again pointed to the buy to let investments to 
demonstrate that Mr D wasnt without experience. It also said that the investigator 
wasnt present at any of the meetings held with Mr D and so questioned how he was 
in a better position to judge the situation.John Dyer didnt regard the rate of required return as the only reason to transfer, but 
rather as a part of the process. His risk rating was 6 on a scale of 1 to 10, with 
10 being the highest. According to the TVAS, the annual growth rates required to 
match the scheme benefits at age 65 were 5.6% and 5% if tax free cash was taken. 
The asset mix, rather than the fund track record, estimates that these returns may be 
achievable with Mr Ds attitude to risk.
Mr Ds objectives were taken into account. Mr D, and his colleagues, had concerns 
about their future employment and the future of the pension scheme. They had read 
about other schemes which had been pillaged by employers. These were very real 
concerns in late 2017 and couldnt be disregarded.
In terms of early retirement, whilst this was possible within the scheme, penalties 
would be applied for doing so. Neither the BSPS 2 nor the PPF would offer the same 
flexibility as a PPP.
Mr D also valued a lump sum for the benefit of his wife and children in the event of 
his death, rather than the spouses pension with no flexibility.
Once Mr D had been informed that the prior firm of advisers had been instructed to 
stop its advice process by the FCA, Mr D didnt decide to stop at that point. Mr D 
effectively decided to transfer not just once, but twice. He was adamant that 
transferring was the best course of action. 
John Dyers correspondence with Mr D repeatedly referred to his stated objectives, 
and if it had misunderstood these, John Dyer had urgently asked him to inform it of 
this. However, despite being provided with ample opportunity to do so, Mr D hadnt 
done this, including not providing information about his buy to let properties.
The recommendation was made on the understanding that Mr D understood the risks 
of the transfer and that he could accept them.
The risk warnings were repeated several times in its correspondence with Mr D. It 
queried what it was supposed to do in such circumstances, for example, perhaps 
telling a client that it knows what is right for them better than they do themselves. And 
if clients didnt read the reports provided to them, then it queried the point of issuing 
them.
A review meeting was held with Mr D in November 2018, at which the performance of 
the fund was discussed. Mr D accepted what John Dyer told him and no point in the 
meeting did Mr D express concern over the transfer.
It disagreed with the recommended award in respect of distress and convenience, 
saying that this was unwarranted given the circumstances. 
John Dyer asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for review. The 
investigator acknowledged this, but also added the following in response to the points made:
He hadnt said that Mr D decided to stop the transfer, and although he accepted that 
the buy to let properties hadnt been disclosed, there was no fact find available, and 
he didnt see why Mr D wouldnt have confirmed this detail if asked.
He also accepted that early retirement was a reasonable objective, but his findings 
on this had been based upon whether it was a sufficient reason to justify the transfer 
and relinquish guaranteed benefits. He drew the distinction between the more aspirational thinking of a younger person in terms of their possible retirement age, as 
opposed to the more fixed planning of someone who was close to that age.
He reiterated that Mr D didnt need to transfer at the age of 34 for the sake of 
possible early retirement at 60. He could have waited nearer the time and could in 
any case have retired early through the scheme benefits. The same applied to the 
argument around flexibility  he could have assessed this need nearer the time.
In terms of Mr Ds investment experience, the investigator said that he had been 
referring to pension investments such as this  he didnt view buying and letting 
property as conferring that type of investment experience on an individual.
The investigator didnt think that his comment about Mr D inappropriately making 
irreversible decisions about his retirement funds at 34 to be a question of him 
dictating what Mr D should have done. It was a matter of advising, and he maintained 
his position that there was no need for Mr D to have made this decision at that point, 
when he had many years of defined contributions ahead of him, and his situation 
could have changed markedly.
As to any assumptions he had made in his view, he said hed actually commented 
that it wasnt right to rely on specific assumptions around the timing or shape of Mr 
Ds retirement benefits to the extent that had happened here.
The investigator also referred to the FCAs finalised guidance on pension transfers, in 
which it said the following:
4.36Features of the pension freedoms are not client objectives. If your firm 
gives advice based on objectives such as flexibility or control of my pension, 
these are unlikely to be sufficiently personalised to enable you to provide a suitable 
personal recommendation, without further detail. You should challenge vague 
statements like these and identify the underlying reasons why your client needs or 
wants these features.
4.37 It is unlikely that a tick box questionnaire will enable you to understand each 
clients objectives properly. While client circumstances may be similar, their plans, 
hopes and concerns about the future will always be unique. If you ask a client to 
choose from a number of generic options that most people would always agree with, 
this will not allow you to establish appropriately what motivates the client, unless you 
follow up with further discussion.
And:
4.41 If a client is some way from retirement and has no clear idea of what they want 
from it, it may not be possible to advise them on a transfer, until they are closer to 
retirement. You should be asking the question why transfer now? when your clients 
retirement plans are unclear. Wanting to take advantage of a high transfer value is 
not generally a good reason on its own to transfer.
These rules and requirements werent new, the investigator added. They clarified 
advisers responsibilities under the existing rules and principles. And they 
demonstrated that the regulator didnt view the challenging of a clients objectives as 
amounting to dictating a particular course of action.The investigator didnt think that he needed to be present at the meetings to 
conclude that Mr D hadnt made an investment decision like this before. And on that 
basis, he thought that it was reasonable to conclude that he wouldnt have insisted 
on the transfer against advice not to do so. He acknowledged that it was an 
assumption, but one which he nevertheless needed to make.
Whilst it was possible that the critical yields would be achieved over 24 years, it 
simply wasnt possible to make a reliable prediction on this over that length of time. 
And in light of the critical yield required to match the scheme benefits, the 
investigator didnt think the transfer could clearly be demonstrated to be in Mr Ds 
best interests.
Although there may have been concerns around the BSPS at the time, Mr D neednt 
have been concerned about the pension fund being pillaged as there was 
legislation in place to prevent this. And there were discussions about the successor 
scheme at the time as well.
Mr Ds objectives around early retirement and flexibility cannot have been fixed at 
age 34, the investigator added. These features would be attractive to the general 
population, and if they were relied upon as reasons to transfer, almost everybody 
would. But the regulator had repeated many times that most defined benefit scheme 
members shouldnt be advised to transfer.
Although Mr D may not himself have stopped the initial transfer process, the 
investigator nevertheless considered it was likely that the advice given by the 
previous firm would have been unsuitable for the same reasons.
It would be strange if Mr D hadnt believed that transferring was in his best interests 
following the initial advice, the investigator said, but it was up to John Dyer to give 
him suitable advice to not do so. And there was no reason why, on the basis of clear 
advice against transferring, Mr D would still have chosen to transfer.
The investigator said that he hadnt said or implied that clients didnt read suitability 
reports, but they didnt by themselves render advice suitable or unsuitable  it was 
either suitable or not on its own merits. No document, however detailed, could make 
unsuitable advice suitable.
As to John Dyers point about telling a client to do something against their own better 
instinct about whats right for them, the investigator said that it was question of how 
much weight was given to the objectives. And he considered that it would have been 
the advisers job to know better than Mr D as to the right course of action  which is 
why he approached John Dyer in the first place. The finalised pension transfer 
guidance also said that it wasnt an advisers role to take orders.
The investigator also maintained that the proposed £300 award in respect of distress 
and inconvenience was also appropriate, given the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements 
This isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied, but provides 
useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time John Dyer advised Mr D 
were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like John Dyer, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, John 
Dyer needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr 
Ds objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the 
requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer 
out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to         
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison and 
its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of John Dyers advice to Mr D in the context of the 
above requirements.
John Dyers rationale for transferring
Mr D had approached John Dyer on the recommendation of a colleague, as he was 
uncertain about the future of the BSPS. Mr D wasnt categorised as an execution only or 
insistent client, and it was taking him through the advice process from the beginning. 
Therefore, although Mr D may have received advice from the previous firm, John Dyer could 
be confident that he would be acting upon its advice.
Although John Dyer has been unable to produce a copy of the fact find document, in order to 
ascertain the detail contained in the suitability report, it would have needed to complete at 
least basic fact finding. And so Ive assumed that, in accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, John 
Dyer did so and then set out its assessment of his circumstances and objectives. The latter, 
as set out above, may be summarised as follows:
Lump sum death benefits for Mrs D
The option for early retirement
Reshape his benefits to enable him to take a flexible income.
Remove his pension benefits from the uncertainty surrounding his employment and 
pension scheme
As with the investigator, Ive noted above within the COBS rules that the starting assumption 
for an assessment of Mr Ds options was that a transfer would be unsuitable, unless it could 
be demonstrated that it was in his best interests in order to meet specific objectives. And so 
Ill therefore explore these objectives further below.
The requirement for control and flexibility - and early retirement
John Dyer obtained two TVAS reports for comparison purposes to determine the viability of 
the transfer to meet Mr Ds objectives from a financial perspective. Its confirmed that the 
most relevant of these took into account the benefits which would be provided by the BSPS 
2, and it produced the critical yields to match the benefits provided by that successor 
scheme and the PPF.The suitability report was issued after the FCAs revised guidance, which was released in 
late October 2017, and provided discount rates for levels of growth which were deemed 
achievable for particular time periods until prospective retirement. And before that, similar 
rates were published by this service. Businesses werent required to reference these when 
providing advice on transfers, but they would nevertheless have been a useful indicator of 
the type of investment return deemed feasible at the time.
The discount rate deemed achievable for the 31 years left to the scheme retirement age of 
65 was 4.7% pa. And the growth rates used in the TVAS to illustrate the benefits which 
might be payable from a PPP were 1.3%, 4.3% and 7.3% for the low, mid and high 
projections respectively.
The critical yields for retirement at age 65 with the BSPS 2, 5.6% if the full scheme pension 
was taken, and 5.0% if tax free cash was taken, were therefore higher than both the discount 
(or growth) rate deemed achievable over the same period, and the mid-band growth rate 
used by the pension provider. John Dyer has said it considered the critical yields to be 
achievable, with the former saying that the managed portfolio to achieve the required growth 
rate was suitable for Mr Ds attitude to investment risk, and that the assets invested in would 
make the critical yields achievable. 
But as with the investigator, Im not persuaded that the critical yields were in fact achievable, 
year on year, for the number of years that Mr D had until he reached retirement age. And as 
a reminder, these growth rates were required to just match the scheme benefits. There 
needed to be a realistic chance that the benefits of the scheme could be bettered through 
transferring. As set out and repeated by the investigator, it needed to be clearly 
demonstrated that the transfer would be in Mr Ds best interests. As such, my view is that the 
transfer couldnt be justified from a purely financial perspective, especially given the valuable 
guarantees which Mr D would be relinquishing. 
But the feasibility of achieving a critical yield alone wouldnt in any case indicate suitability of 
a transfer, as set out in COBS 19.1.7B. There needed to be other compelling reasons. And 
John Dyer has also itself commented that the basis of the recommendation was the benefit 
to Mr D in terms of other objectives being met - including control and flexibility, along with the 
different format of death benefits with a PPP.
Before I assess those in greater detail, I think its firstly fair to say that John Dyer did provide 
warnings on the guarantees which would be relinquished, but as John Dyer will be aware, 
risk warnings alone wouldnt render unsuitable advice suitable. And as the investigator 
pointed out, irrespective of the detail contained in a suitability report, this also wouldnt make 
otherwise unsuitable advice suitable. John Dyer needed to be satisfied, before providing its 
recommendation, that relinquishing the guarantees and taking the investment risk was a 
suitable course of action for Mr D.
As Ive said above, John Dyers reasoning for the recommended transfer was that Mr D 
required flexibility of income due to his particular circumstances and objectives. And so Ive 
given this argument careful consideration.
As a preliminary comment, I dont think the type of portfolio into which Mr D was advised to 
place his transferred funds for the purpose of later flexible access was necessarily 
unsuitable for the risk rating which was attributed to him. 
And I do acknowledge that Mr D was likely to have understood the principle of needing to 
take some risk to achieve the required reward, along with the discussions around such 
concepts that he would have had with colleagues, and perhaps most notably the firm which 
had previously advised him. And so I think Mr D may have had a reasonable understanding of the concept of risk/reward 
 and I take John Dyers point as to Mr Ds likely understanding of the purpose of the risk 
questionnaire itself. 
But I have similar concerns to those expressed by the investigator regarding the reliability of 
that risk rating for Mr D, given his lack of investment experience  and as with the 
investigator, I dont think that the buy to let property experience would have imbued Mr D 
with knowledge or experience of pension investment matters, especially with such a 
specialised area of defined benefit transfers.
But I think theres also the wider issue about Mr Ds capacity to take financial risks with his 
pension funds which is pertinent to overall suitability here. Mr D had joined the replacement 
defined contribution scheme in 2017, and so, other than the state pension which wouldnt be 
payable until age 68, the defined benefits accrued through the BSPS were likely to have 
been his only source of guaranteed income. Any reduction in the benefits payable from them 
would therefore have had a considerable impact on his financial security in retirement.
But even if Im to accept that Mr D was accurately recorded as having a high-medium 
attitude to risk, Ive also noted that, according to the Risk and return expectations graph 
provided by John Dyer, he could expect an average yearly return from that level of risk of 
just over 3%. This was some way below the return required to just match the scheme 
benefits.
However, I also dont think Mr D in any case needed to take the associated risks here. In 
terms of the control and flexibility argument, I understand this to be that Mr D would have 
control over his pension funds, outside of the BSPS, and could alter the income he withdrew 
from a flexi-drawdown, or phased withdrawal, arrangement to satisfy changing income 
needs. But its unclear as to why Mr D would have needed such flexibility, especially given 
the investment risk associated with it, his attitude to risk, lack of capacity to incur losses and 
apparent lack of any similar historical investment which might otherwise indicate a 
preparedness to take risks with his pension income.  
And in particular Ive thought about whether Mr D could meet his objectives of retiring early 
whilst also retaining the valuable guarantees offered by either the BSPS 2 or the PPF. I note 
that, in the suitability report, Mr D was recorded as wanting to be able to either retire fully or 
begin a phased withdrawal of retirement benefits once he was above the minimum age of 
55. There was no mention of a specific retirement age which Mr D had in mind, which in my 
view isnt particularly surprising given his distance in years from retirement. And so Ill 
address the general principle of early retirement, rather than a requirement or desire to do so 
at a particular age.
And in my consideration of this, I acknowledge that there was no facility for Mr D to take tax 
free cash from the BSPS 2 or PPF at any age beyond 55 without also starting to take an 
income. And I accept that, if Mr D did in fact reduce his income after age 55, this would have 
an impact on the household finances.
But by age 55, Mr D would have accrued 21 years worth of defined contributions in the 
replacement scheme. And so, as with the investigators findings, its likely that he could have 
relied on the proceeds of this, from whatever age after 55, and then taken guaranteed 
benefits from either the BSPS 2 or the PPF as and when needed. Its entirely possible in my 
view that, based on his earnings, contribution rates and age, and also dependent upon 
which age after 55 he in fact retired, he would have been able to rely upon the accrued 
benefits from the defined contribution scheme to defer retirement at the normal defined 
benefit scheme age of 65, and then be subject to no early retirement income deduction.Mr D would also have been able to choose a tax efficient level of income or lump sum 
withdrawals through the defined contribution accrual, until the point that he either needed, or 
chose to begin taking, benefits from either the BSPS 2 or the PPF. 
Ive then thought about Mr Ds outstanding commitments. Mr Ds mortgage was due to be 
repaid by the time he reached 60, or would have required a partial element of any tax free 
cash entitlement Mr D wished to take from his defined contribution scheme benefits. And so 
this shouldnt have presented an obstacle to Mr D being able to retire early, and flexibly, 
through the phasing of his defined contributions benefits until he began taking those from the 
BSPS 2 or PPF.
But even if a different interpretation was possible on this, and there was likely to be 
insufficient headroom in terms of combined income (including any drawdowns from the 
defined contribution scheme) for Mr and Mrs Ds expenditure after Mr D had reached 
retirement age, and/or the mortgage had needed to be increased/extended, any remaining 
mortgage could have been restructured to require lower monthly repayments for the 
remaining years before Mr D accessed his defined benefit scheme pension funds at age 65. 
Alternatively, Mr and Mrs D could have still repaid some of the capital, but at a lower overall 
rate for the additional years, in order to provide more available income when Mr D retired at 
age 65.
As to Mr Ds acceptance of the proposition of risk/reward, he was accruing further benefits in 
his defined contribution scheme, and given the contributions rates to that scheme (10% and 
6% employer and employee contributions respectively) and the number of years left to 
retirement compared against the benefits accrued in the final salary scheme, much of his 
pension provision would likely be derived of the defined contribution scheme. As such, Mr D 
was already by necessity taking investment risk through the replacement scheme.
But in light of this, and as Ive said above, I think the guarantees attached to the defined 
benefits would have been of considerable value and these benefits should not have been 
relinquished lightly in favour of a flexibility which could in any case have been met by fairly 
uncomplicated planning around his defined contribution and defined benefit pension accruals 
and accessibility, even from 55 if required. 
And on that particular note, I must also re-emphasise, as did the investigator, that Mr D was 
34 at the point of advice, and so many years away from retirement. Ive noted the comment 
in the suitability report that Mr D was concerned about the future of the BSPS and his 
associated benefits. But Mr Ds concerns around this should have been managed 
appropriately. I appreciate that there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice 
with preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension 
scheme, but as the professional party, the IFA is tasked with rationally addressing those 
concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the available options. 
I dont think this happened here. As observed by the investigator, there was no prospect of 
the BSPS funds being pillaged. And the whole point of the BSPS consultation, which John 
Dyer noted had resulted in the agreement being announced in August 2017, had been to 
avoid the necessity of the BSPS pension funds entering the PPF, and by the point of the 
advice the BSPS 2 seemed more likely than not to be a viable alternative. But I note that, 
contrary to these indications, the suitability report said that one of the factors Mr D needed to 
take into account when considering the transfer options was that The BSPS will move into 
the PPF next year which means that your benefits will be reduced. 
When the advice was given, there was no imminent prospect of the BSPS entering the PPF. 
In fact, all indications were to the contrary. And so my view here is that Mr D simply didnt need to make any decisions about 
transferring his defined benefits at that point. The prospect of entering the PPF had receded, 
but even if this was still the more likely outcome, this would still have provided him with 
valuable benefit guarantees, and a more favourable early retirement reduction if he did in 
fact take scheme benefits earlier than age 65. As referenced by the investigator, his plans, 
including retirement, may in any case have changed significantly in the 21 intervening years 
between then and Mr D reaching age 55. Any flexibility requirements could have been 
addressed nearer to, or at, the point of Mr Ds retirement. 
And so on the basis of what Ive said above, it follows that I dont think the planned early 
retirement, or any other requirement around control over, and flexibility of, income, was a 
sufficient reason for Mr D to transfer his deferred benefits.
Death benefits
On the basis that Mr D was married with children, he was recorded as being keen, in the 
event of his death, for death benefits to be paid to his dependants as a lump sum.
And its fair to say that, after the transfer, a lump sum would be payable to his 
beneficiary/ies, rather than in the form of spouses/dependants pensions from the scheme.
But I also have concerns about this as a reason for transferring Mr Ds benefits. Firstly, he 
had no particular health issues which would mean that death benefits, or any likelihood to 
not benefit from a pension income derived of his scheme membership upon retirement for a 
reasonable amount of time, were of concern at that point. 
Secondly, the accrued pension provision is intended to provide for an individuals retirement 
rather than a desire to leave a lump sum legacy for that individuals spouse or dependants. 
The financial wellbeing of Mrs D and his children would inevitably have been a priority for Mr 
D, but the recommendation needed to be given in the context of  primarily - Mr Ds best 
interests in terms of his retirement needs. And under the schemes terms, Mr Ds 
dependants would in any case have been entitled to a lump sum return of his contributions 
to the scheme, together with compound interest. The fund value of Mr Ds defined 
contribution scheme membership would also have been available as a lump sum. 
There is also the matter of the lump sum benefits which would have been paid, had Mr D 
remained in the same employment  recorded as being four times his annual salary.
Mrs D would also have been entitled to a spouses pension equivalent to half of that which 
would be payable to him, along with a further pension in respect of financially dependent 
children.
Notwithstanding the above, a desire to leave a lump sum legacy for his beneficiaries cannot 
reasonably have subjugated Mr Ds own personal requirement to benefit from his pension. 
And there was no detail about why a lump sum would have been so important to Mrs D or 
their children that it would justify a transfer of Mr Ds guaranteed benefits.
I therefore think that it was more likely than not an entirely understandable desire to leave a 
lump sum financial legacy to his beneficiaries, but not essential, and certainly not of 
sufficient importance, given the other death benefits which would be available, to justify Mr D 
compromising the security of his own retirement.
A lump sum may have its appeal  and I recognise that in some situations the ability to pass 
a lump sum to beneficiaries could be particularly advantageous when compared to an income stream through a spouses or dependants pension, but given the actual level of 
benefits which would in any case be available from the scheme, I dont think the right 
conditions for this to have outweighed the benefits of Mr D retaining his deferred benefits 
were present here.
The objective to leave a lump sum legacy should have been properly weighed against the 
guaranteed benefits Mr D was relinquishing, along with the considerable other benefits to 
which Mr Ds wife and children would be entitled in the event of his death, and John Dyer 
should have advised him that his own financial security in retirement took priority here.
So for the reasons given, I dont think the prospect of a lump sum benefit for Mr Ds wife and 
children by way of transferring to the PPP constituted sufficient reason to transfer and lose 
otherwise valuable guaranteed benefits for Mr D. 
What should John Dyer have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr Ds 
decision?
There were understandably concerns relating to the BSPS at the time of the advice - and I 
fully acknowledge this. Its undeniable that this was a period of great uncertainty for 
individuals such as Mr D. But this only serves to emphasise the need for a balanced 
assessment of the options available and, ultimately, suitable advice.
Furthermore, as Ive also said above, there was no need for Mr D to make any decision 
about his BSPS benefits at this point in time. John Dyer has taken issue with the 
investigators similar findings on this point, querying as to why he would be in a better 
position to know what was best for Mr D, and that it would be wrong to dictate a course of 
action to a client.
Im afraid all I can do is echo the position expressed by the investigator, and indeed by the 
regulator. Financial advice isnt simply about wish fulfilment, and facilitating whatever course 
of action a client wishes to take. If an advising business considers that course of action to be 
unsuitable for them, or otherwise not in their best interest, its incumbent upon them to 
explain this  and why. 
I appreciate that this may misrepresent John Dyers position, and it was referring to Mr Ds 
expressed objectives, in that it wouldnt be up to an adviser or indeed this service to tell Mr D 
that he shouldnt have the aim of, for example, retiring early. Thats entirely fair, although I 
agree with the investigator that the objectives themselves might reasonably apply to a large 
proportion of the working population, rather than appearing to be specific to Mr D himself. 
That aside, however, it was nevertheless the responsibility of John Dyer to explain to Mr D 
why he didnt need to make any irreversible decision on relinquishing valuable scheme 
pension guarantees at that time. As Ive said above, there was no imminent prospect of his 
scheme benefits entering the PPF, which would have ruled out a later transfer. On the 
contrary, the indication was that the BSPS 2 would be successfully implemented.
Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr D was a balanced 
appraisal of the options available to him, coupled with a robust and candid discussion about 
his own concerns relating to the BSPS. Mr D, amongst many others in a similar position, 
may have been concerned by developments relating to his employment and the BSPS, but 
he was nevertheless entitled to an impartial review of his options. 
And looking at those options, one of the key recorded objectives - early retirement  was in 
any case achievable within the BSPS 2, and would have remained so even in the worst 
case scenario of entering the PPF. For the reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility and control 
of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme, and Im satisfied that Mr Ds 
income needs could have been comfortably met by well-planned access to his different 
types of accrued benefits by the time he came to retirement. The available evidence simply 
doesnt support the position as to why control or flexibility would have been sufficiently 
compelling reasons for Mr D to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees  especially at the age 
of 34. 
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mr Ds concerns about the existing scheme 
could have been successfully allayed, such that he appreciated the important guaranteed 
benefits, even under the PPF, which he would be relinquishing for the sake of income 
flexibility which he simply didnt need or could in any case access in other ways, and a future 
pension which would be entirely dependent upon investment returns  rather than being 
partially dependent upon them as would otherwise have been the case through the defined 
contribution scheme.
Although not a stated objective, tax free cash for the purpose of mortgage repayment (if 
required) would have been available both from his accrued defined contribution and defined 
benefit pension funds. Death benefits were also payable from the defined benefit scheme, 
albeit in a different format from those available from the PPP. But for the reasons set out 
above, I dont think these should have been a more important consideration than Mr Ds own 
retirement guarantees which hed be relinquishing through the transfer.
The critical yield is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished. 
And as the critical yield was higher than the discount rate and the mid band growth rate set 
out by the TVAS pension provider, I think it was unlikely to be achievable, year on year, to 
even simply match the scheme benefits. This position is supported by John Dyers own 
graph of the returns which could be expected from an individual with a high-medium risk 
rating. The justification for transferring was that it was nevertheless suitable in view of Mr Ds 
stated objectives and the concerns about the BSPS. 
And whilst I accept that the critical yield isnt the only factor to consider when weighing the 
suitability of a transfer, Im unconvinced by what John Dyer considers to have been the 
overriding justifications for proceeding with the transfer, for the reasons given above. 
John Dyers view is that Mr D was intent on effecting the transfer. And Ive noted the 
comments relating to Mr Ds keenness that the transfer proceed, even once it was known 
that the previous firm of advisers had been prevented from processing transfers. But firstly, 
John Dyer has itself said that it, quite properly, began the entire advice process again. Mr D 
is therefore very likely to have initially been acting on the advice provided by the previous 
firm, and would have been persuaded by the rationale previously set out to transfer. But this 
was John Dyers opportunity to take proper account of Mr Ds circumstances and objectives 
and advise him not to do so, for all the reasons set out above.
I certainly acknowledge that it wouldnt be straightforward to effectively undo the advice of 
a previous firm. But I think the advantages of Mr D retaining his scheme benefits, if set out in 
terms similar to those above, would have persuaded Mr D to do just that. And I think any 
concerns about the pension scheme, especially relating to the access that an employer 
might have to the pension funds and the safeguards which are in place to prevent that from 
happening, would have been assuaged if properly managed.
In terms of the responsibilities of Mr D in deciding whether to still proceed (and as Ive said 
above, I accept that Mr D was given risk warnings and was more likely than not capable of 
understanding them), I dont disagree that properly informed, correctly advised individuals would be in a position to take that kind of responsibility and decide for themselves if they 
wanted to transfer their defined benefits. The problem here is that this was a complex matter 
involving many factors with which Mr D, as a layman, wouldnt have been familiar (even 
taking account of his buy to let property experience)  hence his reliance on a professional 
party to take those factors into account and provide suitable, balanced advice.
For the reasons given above, my view is that Mr D simply wasnt placed in a properly 
informed, or suitably advised, position to be able to take that kind of personal responsibility.
Mr Ds decision (and as has been claimed, sense of urgency relating to this) to proceed may 
well have been borne of wider concerns relating to the financial viability of the BSPS, but as 
Ive said above, this was due to the absence of a detailed and balanced assessment of the 
schemes attributes and prospects in the advice process.
Taking account of Mr Ds circumstances, including his attitude to risk, his objectives and the 
guarantees which the BSPS offered and would have persisted with either the BSPS 2 or the 
PPF, my view is that John Dyer should have advised against the transfer.
And I think that, had this happened, Mr D would have followed that advice and not 
transferred his benefits to the PPP.
Summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads 
to a clear conclusion  that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr D, nor was 
it in his best interests. The key contributing factors here are: Mr Ds attitude to risk and its 
incompatibility with the type of investment risk which would have likely been required to 
match the scheme benefits  a failing under COBS 19.1.7; and the lack of a comprehensive 
and balanced portrayal of Mr Ds options and the future benefits available from both the 
BSPS defined benefits and defined contributions  a failure to adhere to COBS 19.1.2 (2) 
and 19.1.8.
Furthermore, at least two of the key benefits sought by Mr D were available without needing 
to transfer  early retirement and flexibility through utilising the different types of BSPS 
benefits which would have been available to him (or indeed through the PPF).
My view is that, taking account of the critical yields, Mr Ds attitude to risk with regard to his 
pension funds and matching that with the likely corresponding investment returns, it was 
unlikely that the benefits available from the BSPS, or a successor scheme, could be bettered 
through the transfer. As the other reasons for transferring were insufficiently compelling, 
when considered against the valuable benefits being relinquished, as required by COBS 
2.1.1R and COBS 19.1.6, it would - or should - then have drawn, and conveyed, the 
conclusion that transferring wasnt in Mr Ds best interests. 
Putting things right
My aim to is put Mr D, as closely as possible, into the position hed be but for John Dyer (Life 
& Pensions) Limiteds unsuitable advice. Reinstatement of Mr Ds deferred benefits isnt 
possible. Therefore, John Dyer (Life & Pensions) Limited should undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers.
My view is that, had Mr D not transferred his pension funds to the PPP, he would have opted 
to join the BSPS 2. There would be a 10% reduction in the starting pension entitlement within the PPF, whereas the BSPS 2 wouldnt cut the starting entitlement for deferred 
members. 
As Ive said above, the reduction for early retirement under the PPF was lower and the 
commutation factors for tax free cash entitlement were also slightly more favourable under 
the PPF. And so, on the basis of prospective early retirement, both the starting income and 
the tax free cash would likely have been higher with the PPF. 
But for the reasons set out above, I think its likely that, properly advised, Mr D would have 
envisaged accessing his defined contribution scheme benefits to make up any income 
shortfall in the period between potential early retirement and starting to take his defined 
benefits, which could then have been deferred until normal scheme retirement age.
In terms of death benefits, under the BPSP 2 his spouses pension would be set at 50% of 
his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken 
at retirement. 
And so its the benefits offered by the BSPS 2 which should be used for comparison 
purposes.
As such, the calculation on the basis of choosing to enter the BSPS 2 should be carried out 
using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. John Dyer 
(Life & Pensions) Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) 
to obtain Mr Ds contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS 
or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss 
should if possible be paid into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been 
taxed according to Mr Ds likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date 
John Dyer (Life & Pensions) Limited receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
that 90 day period, that it takes John Dyer (Life & Pensions) Limited to pay Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require John Dyer (Life & Pensions) Limited to pay Mr 
D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require John 
Dyer (Life & Pensions) Limited to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require John Dyer (Life 
& Pensions) Limited to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
John Dyer (Life & Pensions) Limited pays Mr D the balance. I additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
Ive also thought carefully about the further award in respect of distress and inconvenience. I 
think its fair to say that, as Mr D was many years away from retirement, there would have 
been perhaps little stress resulting from an immediate sense of compromised retirement 
plans. But I do also think that its quite likely that, even without that sense of immediately 
pending financial disadvantage, Mr D would have been troubled by the realisation that hed 
taken an ill-advised and unnecessary course of action.
And so I think the investigators recommendation is about right. As such, John Dyer (Life & 
Pensions) Limited should pay Mr D an additional £300 in respect of this.
If Mr D accepts my decision, the money award is binding on John Dyer (Life & Pensions) 
Limited. My recommendation is not binding on John Dyer (Life & Pensions) Limited. Further, 
its unlikely that Mr D can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D 
may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. John Dyer (Life & Pensions) Limited should 
undertake the above calculation and, if it demonstrates a loss, compensate Mr D 
accordingly.     
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman