DRN-2549509
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint concerns a delay in the transfer of his ISA from Santander UK Plc to a new 
provider.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr P visited a branch of the new provider to which he intended to transfer 
his ISA. He completed the necessary paperwork but once this was submitted there followed 
a number of delays, resulting in the transfer not completing until January 2020. 
Mr P made complaints about the actions of both Santander and the new provider. His 
concerns relating to the new provider have been dealt with separately. 
In respect of Santanders actions, our investigator, having considered how the transfer 
progressed, concluded that Santander had not done anything wrong. She agreed with 
Santander that any delays had been caused by the new provider sending documentation 
that wasnt correct. As such, she didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
The investigator noted that Mr P sought compensation for the distress created by having to 
visit the branch of the new provider on several occasions. But as she didnt think Santander 
had acted incorrectly, she didnt feel it should be directed to make any payment to Mr P.
Mr P responded to disagree with the investigators view. He referred to some earlier 
complaints hed made to Santander. But the investigator explained that these were separate 
matters, which Santander had looked into previously.  
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to review. 
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Ive looked at the chronology of events and Im satisfied that no responsibility for the transfer 
delay lies with Santander. It reasonably requested particular documentation from the new 
provider, but when this wasnt provided in the form required, it had no option but to ask 
again, and couldnt proceed further with the transfer until the documentation had been 
received. 
As I dont think that Santander acted incorrectly, I dont think that it can be held responsible 
for any distress or additional costs incurred by Mr P.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman