DRN-2669344
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage application X made to Lloyds Bank PLC.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been 
sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are 
published and its important that I dont include any information that might result in X being 
identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint
In 2019 X was looking to buy a property. They had a deposit of £40,000 and had 
approached several lenders or brokers about a mortgage, but was told that their income was 
too low to enable them to pass affordability criteria. 
X spoke to Lloyds about a mortgage. After issuing a Decision in Principle (DIP) in February 
2019 for a mortgage of £61,355, X began looking for a property. They found one and applied 
for the mortgage. But when the application was considered, Lloyds realised it had made an 
error on the DIP when calculating the amount it would lend. X wasnt able to go ahead with 
the purchase of the property shed chosen.
Lloyds accepted it had made a mistake when it had incorrectly recorded Xs income, and 
offered £200 for the mistake.
X didnt accept this and in May 2020 they complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
X says their reputation has been seriously damaged by the bank because they had to 
withdraw from the purchase of their chosen property, causing embarrassment. X also says 
they travelled hundreds, sometimes thousands, of miles each month looking at properties 
within the £100,000 price range and wasted months of their life searching for the right 
property.
X said they considers £200 to be an insult, and would like the bank to pay compensation of 
£10,000.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything 
further. X disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint X, but I dont think Lloyds needs to pay any further 
compensation. These are my reasons.
The DIP is clear that it isnt a binding mortgage offer. So although I note X insists they were 
offered a mortgage of £61,355, that isnt the case  Lloyds didnt at any time issue a 
mortgage offer.
Theres no dispute that the adviser made a mistake when preparing the DIP. But the DIP 
itself clearly states that it isnt a guarantee and shouldnt be relied upon, as a full mortgage 
application was required. It isnt unfair or unreasonable for lenders to tell consumers not to 
rely on DIPs, and to only rely on a mortgage offer.
Lloyds has acknowledged it made a mistake in February 2019 and that, if it had keyed Xs 
information correctly, theyd have been told that Lloyds wouldnt be able to consider a 
mortgage application. Where a business has made a mistake, what I have to decide is what 
should be done to put things right  in other words, to put the consumer back in the position 
theyd have been in, had no error occurred.
If the mistake hadnt been made, X would have been told in February 2019 that Lloyds 
wouldnt be able to offer them a mortgage. It follows from this that, if X had been told this, 
they wouldnt have looked for a property to buy. 
I can see that in the months following the DIP X made arrangements to view a large number 
of properties, before finding the one that they made an offer on. But I dont think it would be 
fair for Lloyds to compensate X for all the time spent on this, or their expenses in travelling to 
view multiple properties over a period of several months. 
I agree X wouldnt have done this if theyd known they couldnt get a mortgage, but Im also 
satisfied that the majority of the properties X was considering could have been viewed online 
without needing to visit each one. Lenders arent required to cover the cost of potential 
borrowers finding the property they want to buy, and I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to order Lloyds to do so in this case. 
X says that having to withdraw from the purchase caused serious damage to their reputation 
with the solicitor and estate agent. I appreciate that it was embarrassing for X, but this is 
something that happens on a regular basis in property transactions and so Im not 
persuaded the solicitor and estate agent would not have come across this situation before or 
drawn any adverse conclusions from this about Xs integrity.
In all the circumstances, taking everything into account, I think the payment offered by 
Lloyds of £200 is fair, reasonable and proportionate to cover the trouble and upset caused 
by the error made by the bank.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I simply leave it to X to decide if they 
want to accept the £200 offered by Lloyds Bank PLC in full and final settlement of their 
complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman