DRN-2174660
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has dealt with a medical 
expenses claim she made on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C was on holiday abroad. While she was away, she underwent medical treatment in a 
local hospital. She made a claim on her travel insurance policy for the medical expenses she 
incurred.
UKI initially turned down the claim because it said itd happened outside of the policy cover 
limits. So Mrs C complained to us. Our investigator thought the claim had happened inside 
the cover limits, so UKI agreed to consider Mrs Cs claim. It also paid her compensation for 
its handling of the claim up to that point.
It asked Mrs C to provide information from the treating hospital which explained the 
treatment shed received. Mrs C was able to provide some detailed receipts and medical 
reports, but she wasnt able to provide all of the information UKI had asked for. Mrs C asked 
us to look into UKIs handling of her claim.
Our investigator considered all of the available evidence. He thought Mrs C had 
substantiated some of her claim. But he felt that UKI was entitled to validate the things Mrs C 
had claimed for before it agreed to reimburse her. He could see that UKI had been proactive 
in contacting the treating hospital to try and get the information it needed. But the hospital 
said Mrs C hadnt authorised it to speak with UKIs claims team. UKI had some specific 
questions it wanted to ask the hospital, relating to the tests Mrs C had undergone and their 
link to the condition she said shed been treated for. It also wanted to know whether her 
treatment had been pre-booked.
The investigator recommended that Mrs C, UKI and the hospital should hold a conference 
call to move things forward. He felt that would help UKI get the information it needed. UKI 
agreed to this suggestion. But Mrs C refused. She felt shed provided enough information for 
UKI to make a decision on her claim. 
So our investigator concluded that UKI had handled the claim fairly. He felt UKI was entitled 
to be satisfied that Mrs Cs costs were emergency medical costs that were covered under 
the policy. And that the medical costs shed incurred were linked to her possible diagnosis. 
He thought the policy terms entitled UKI to require evidence to support claims. He was also 
satisfied that UKI had taken steps to contact the treating hospital to get the information it 
needed. Overall, he felt the burden of proof was on Mrs C to show she had a valid claim and 
that as she didnt want to go ahead with a conference call, he didnt think UKI needed to do 
anything more.
Mrs C disagreed. She felt she was entitled to compensation for the time shed been waiting 
for UKI to settle her claim. She didnt accept the investigator had properly applied the policy 
terms and conditions. She felt shed repeatedly provided the same information and it hadnt 
been fair and reasonable for UKI to keep asking for the same things. The symptoms she was 
suffering from could have all sorts of causes and thats why she underwent different kinds of 
testing. She wanted UKI to make a decision on her claim and to put its decision in writing.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think that UKI has treated Mrs C fairly. Ill explain why.
Its clear that Mrs Cs claim has been ongoing for around two years now and I appreciate 
shes frustrated with the claims handling process. It mustve been upsetting when the claim 
was originally turned down because UKI felt the claim had been made outside of the policy 
cover limits. This issue has been dealt with previously and Mrs C has received 
compensation for UKIs handling of the claim up until that point.
But my decision now focuses on whether its fair for UKI to require further information from 
Mrs C before it agrees to pay her claim. In making my decision, I need to think about 
whether UKI has complied with the regulators rules to handle claims promptly and fairly; 
whether its applied the policy terms reasonably and whether Mrs C has shown, on balance, 
that she has a valid claim on the policy.
What does the policy say?
Its a policyholders responsibility to show they have a valid claim on their policy. In this case, 
theres no doubt that Mrs C did incur medical expenses while she was abroad. But its her 
responsibility to show, on balance, that those expenses were covered by the policy. So Ive 
first looked at what the policy covers.
Section D  Emergency Medical and Related Costs says:
What is covered
We will cover you for the following expenses if you die, are injured, become ill or are 
quarantined while on a trip:
1. Emergency Medical Costs outside your home area
 Emergency medical, surgical and hospital treatment (including ambulance and 
rescue service fees to take you to hospital) incurred outside your home area;
 Emergency dental treatment solely for sudden pain relief incurred outside your 
home area;
 If you are claiming for expenses that are covered under this section we will also pay 
you hospital benefit for every complete 24 hour period you are being treated as an in-
patient outside your home area.
Its clear the policy only covers emergency medical expenses  the policy doesnt cover 
treatment a policyholder plans to get while they were abroad. UKI noted from Mrs Cs UK 
medical records that shed seen her GP with glandular pain the day before she booked her 
outward travel for her trip. And it wanted to know whether shed gone to A and E when shed 
first sought treatment abroad, or whether shed pre-booked appointments. Based on these 
queries, I think it was reasonable for UKI to be entitled to be satisfied that Mrs Cs 
appointments were emergency medical costs that the policy covered.The policy also sets out claims procedures. One of these terms states:
Evidence Of Claims
 you or your legal representatives must provide at your own expense all certificates, 
information and evidence that we need in order to consider your claim.
So I think the policy clearly sets out that UKI is entitled to ask for the information and 
evidence it requires to consider and pay a claim. These policy terms applied at the time of 
Mrs Cs claim, so I think it was fair for UKI to apply them when dealing with it.
Is it reasonable for UKI to request further information from Mrs C?
I can see that Mrs C has provided UKI with a lot of information about the medical costs she 
incurred and the tests she underwent, including medical reports and some receipts. So I can 
understand why she feels shes provided enough.
But having considered everything, I think UKI was clear upfront that the medical evidence 
Mrs C had already provided simply wasnt enough to validate her claim. It explained that it 
needed a breakdown of what the costs were for and what treatment Mrs C had needed. 
While Mrs C was able to provide a sufficiently detailed receipt for some of the costs; UKI 
didnt think it was enough to show that all of her costs should be covered by the policy. I 
think UKI consistently explained what it needed from Mrs C and I dont think it was 
unreasonable for it to ask for this information.
Its also clear from UKIs notes that it took proactive steps to contact the treating hospital to 
get the information it needed. I think this was a fair and appropriate step to try and assist Mrs 
C in moving her claim forward. The hospital refused to speak to UKI without Mrs Cs 
authority to do so. I can see that UKI explained this to Mrs C, but the notes dont suggest 
she gave the hospital this permission. So UKI wasnt able to deal directly with the treating 
hospital. 
UKI explained to the investigator what information it wanted to know from the treating 
hospital. This included whether the costs were related to emergency medical expenses; 
whether all of the tests Mrs C had undergone (such as a CT scan, respiratory tests etc.) all 
related to her diagnosis, as it couldnt find a link between some of these tests and the 
condition Mrs C was diagnosed with; and what some of the receipts were for. I think the 
nature of these concerns meant it was reasonable for UKI to ask for further evidence before 
it agreed to pay the claim.
In an attempt to move things forward, UKI agreed to a conference call between the hospital 
and Mrs C. I think this was a pragmatic and sensible way forward and I think it wouldve 
meant the claim couldve progressed. Thats because I think UKI wouldve been able to ask 
the hospital its queries and obtain the answers its still waiting on. But because Mrs C 
declined to take up this offer, in the absence of any further medical evidence which sets out 
the information UKI needs, it seems theres nothing further UKI can do to further consider 
paying the claim. It simply doesnt seem Mrs C has provided enough evidence to show, on 
balance, that she has a valid claim on her policy.
So based on all Ive seen, Im persuaded its reasonable for UKI to request further 
information from Mrs C. I think its tried to handle her claim promptly and fairly. This means I 
dont think its done anything wrong that it needs to put right. And Im not directing it to pay 
any compensation. I appreciate Mrs C would like UKI to now make a decision about her 
claim. If she would now like to go ahead with a conference call to move things forward, its 
open to her to get in touch with UKI to arrange this.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman