DRN-2331678
The complaint
Mr G  on behalf of Company C  complains that Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE 
(Liberty) have unfairly declined its professional indemnity claim. 
What happened
Company C took out a professional indemnity policy with Liberty in November 2011. The 
policy was a claims made policy (meaning only claims made during the policy period would 
be covered) that expired on 28 November 2014 and wasnt renewed. 
On the day prior to the policys expiry, Company C made several block notifications of 
circumstances that it thought may result in a claim. This consisted of spreadsheets detailing 
different categories of investments and the names of the clients that had invested in them. 
After the policy had expired, Company C made a claim in relation to a complaint it had 
received from a former client on 27 February 2015, which it said had been included in its 
block notification made on 27 November 2014. However, after receiving legal advice on the 
matter, Liberty said that these notifications made by Company C were not valid as they did 
not constitute a circumstance in line with the policy terms and conditions. So, given that the 
claim had been made after the policy had expired, they therefore declined to offer indemnity. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, as he considered that Liberty had acted fairly in 
declining the claim. Company C disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to 
determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
The professional indemnity policy taken out by Company C was a claims made policy which 
allowed the insured to notify the insurer of any circumstance of which it becomes aware 
that may lead to a claim. The policy defines circumstance as:
Information discovered, during the period of insurance, by the Insured which 
suggests that a Claim by an identified claimant is likely to be made against the 
insured. For the avoidance of doubt, such information does not constitute a 
Circumstance merely because the Insured has sold or advised in relation to a 
product of class of investment that is the subject of adverse press comment, 
regulatory investigations, or has known liquidity issues.
In its block notification made in November 2014, Company C attached a letter with several 
spreadsheets detailing the investments it had sold and the clients that had invested in them. 
The letter set out that 
it has become clear that the Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes (UCIS) 
are a topic of concernI am very concerned about the clients that I have advised to 
invest into UCIS funds and all of the above.
It has become clear that the FCA have taken a negative view on these types of 
investment given the high risk natureI also understand the Financial Ombudsman 
Service has been finding in favour of investors bringing claims against advisors for 
UCIS.
UCIS and alternative investments seem to be heavily criticised in the public domain 
and it would not be unreasonable to expect a client to review their investments
I am concerned that any of the below clients could raise concerns surrounding the 
advice, which may well lead to an adverse decision being made by a court of 
law/FOS etc. 
The concerns highlighted by Company C in its block notification were evidently in relation to 
the product in general being likely to lead to claims being made against it. It wasnt notifying 
the insurer of any particular identifiable individual that it thought was likely to make a claim at 
that time (which forms part of the requirement under the policy terms, i.e. a claim by an 
identified claimant). 
Indeed, Company C was not able to identify which of its clients would be likely to make a 
claim, but simply said it was very concerned about the clients that I have advised and so 
had to include all of them. Given that this was primarily a result of adverse press and 
negative regulatory comment/investigations (as highlighted by Company C in its letter 
above), it clearly falls within the policy definition of what doesnt constitute a notifiable 
circumstance. 
Therefore, I am satisfied that Liberty have acted fairly by declining to indemnify 
Company Cs claim on the basis that no valid notification of circumstance was made during 
the policy period. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G  on behalf 
of Company C  to accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman