DRN-3216706
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) terminated the 
hire purchase agreement she had with them. 
What happened
On 3 October 2019 Miss D was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with VWFS. The agreement was for £10,248, with 48 monthly payments of £200.63, and a 
final optional payment of £4,207.50 if she wanted to keep the car. 
Miss D said that her income had been affected by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, and 
that she was struggling to maintain the payments to the agreement. She says that she 
contacted VWFS in May 2020 and was told that she only had to start making payments 
towards her agreement when she was able to do so. But VWFS terminated the agreement. 
And when, in late 2020, she told VWFS that she was able to start making payments again, 
she says they werent willing to let her clear the arrears and continue with the agreement.
Miss D complained to VWFS, but they didnt uphold her complaint. So, she brought her 
complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that Miss D missed payments towards the agreement and, because of 
this, VWFS sent her arrears letters, and a default notice. The investigator said that Miss D 
had contacted VWFS twice about a payment holiday, which wasnt an option at the time of 
her requests. And, after receiving her second request, VWFS asked Miss D to complete an 
online form so they could consider what support was available. But she didnt do this. 
The investigator was satisfied that Miss D didnt have a payment holiday, or any other type 
of arrangement in place. So, she was satisfied that VWFS acted reasonably by terminating 
the account after sending the default notice and not receiving any response from Miss D. 
And she didnt think VWFS needed to do anything more.
Miss D didnt agree with the investigator. She said that she didnt receive the default notice 
and wouldve acted immediately if she had  she wouldve started making payments once 
she was employed or surrendered the car. Miss D has also said that she needs the car for 
her work, so she doesnt think that its fair that VWFS instructed a company to repossess it. 
And shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Miss D was supplied with a car under a hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to 
investigate complaints about it. 
While I havent had copies of the calls themselves, VWFS have said that Miss D called them 
on 2 March 2020 to ask about a payment holiday. And they say they told her that this wasnt 
an option at the time. Miss D doesnt dispute this call happened. VWFS say that Miss D 
called them again on 27 March 2020, but they still couldnt offer a payment holiday. But they 
explained Miss Bs options to her  allowing her 60-days breathing space or setting up a 
repayment plan. VWFS say they also asked Miss B to complete an online financial 
difficulties form, but she didnt do so. Again, Miss D doesnt dispute that this call happened.
It wasnt until 27 April 2020 that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to 
financial businesses about customers whose incomes had been affected by Covid-19. And it 
was this guidance that allowed for a temporary (three-month) payment holiday. Given this, 
Im satisfied that VWFS couldnt offer Miss D a payment holiday when she contacted them in 
March 2020, but they acted under the FCAs forbearance rules in place at the time by 
offering the assistance they did. And I havent seen anything to show me that Miss B asked 
VWFS for a payment holiday once this option was available to her.
Ive seen that VWFS wrote to Miss D on 17 March 2020, advising her that she was in 
arrears. And they asked her to call them to discuss this. This letter was followed by similar 
letters dated 4 April, 15 April, and 30 April 2020. VWFS also sent Miss D a default notice on 
6 May 2020, asking her to pay the arrears of £601.89 by no later than 25 May 2020. 
Otherwise they may terminate the agreement and repossess the car. Miss D didnt clear the 
arrears but VWFS didnt terminate the agreement.
VWFS sent Miss D a further arrears letter dated 1 September 2020, giving a full breakdown 
of what payments were due, and what had been paid. This letter confirmed that the arrears 
were now £1,203.78. This was followed by a similar letter dated 29 January 2021, which 
showed that Miss D had made payments in September, October and November 2020. But 
hadnt paid anything in December 2020 or January 2021. 
VWFS sent Miss D a second default notice on 8 February 2021, asking her to pay the 
£2,006.30 arrears by no later than 27 February 2021. They again said that failure to do this 
may result in the termination of the agreement and the repossession of the car. 
Miss D emailed VWFS on 13 February 2021, about the letter shed received saying that 
£2000 needed to be paid immediately, and to ask what options she had. Because this email 
refers to the contents of the default notice, Im satisfied that Miss D received this. And that 
she wouldve been aware what could happen if she didnt clear the arrears.
While VWFS say they explained to Miss D that they could set up a repayment plan, or they 
could offer her 60-days breathing space, I havent seen any evidence of this. What I have 
seen is that VWFS asked Miss D to complete some security questions before they could 
reply to her query. And I havent seen anything to show that Miss D did this.Ive also seen VWFS sent Miss D a chaser email on 12 March 2021, saying theyd not been 
able to get in touch with her, and asking her to contact them. This may have been in relation 
to Miss D not answering the security questions, or it may have been a follow up to the 
options VWFS say they gave to Miss B. Either way, Miss D didnt respond to this request. 
And, on 23 March 2021, VWFS wrote to Miss D to tell her the agreement had been 
terminated, and that they would start repossession proceedings.
VWFS wrote to Miss D about her arrears on at least nine separate occasions between 17 
March 2020 and 23 March 2021. Im aware that Miss D says she didnt receive some letters, 
but Ive seen that theyre all addressed correctly. And Miss D has confirmed that the address 
VWFS used is her residential address. Whats more, Ive not seen anything that indicates 
these letters werent sent. Given this, I wont be holding VWFS responsible for Miss D not 
receiving these letters - they cant be held accountable for any failures in the postal service.
The agreement Miss D signed clearly said that missing payment could result in a default 
notice being issued and the car repossessed. While VWFS issued the first default notice in 
May 2020. As this was in the middle of a pandemic, and peoples incomes were being 
affected as a result, Im satisfied that VWFS acted reasonably by not terminating the 
agreement and repossessing the car at this point. 
But as Miss D hadnt contacted VWFS about her arrears  even if she didnt receive the 
arrears letters, Miss D wouldve know she hadnt made all of the monthly payments, so she 
would need to make an arrangement with VWFS  I dont think that VWFS did anything 
wrong by issuing a second default notice in February 2021. Miss D received this default 
notice, and she contacted VWFS about it. But she didnt follow this up when VWFS 
requested asked her to do so. And this resulted in the termination of the agreement.
While I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss D; given the above, Im 
satisfied that VWFS acted reasonably by terminating their agreement with her, and by taking 
steps to repossess the car. So, I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman