DRN-4353674
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc has unfairly recorded a default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr M says TSB recorded a default on his joint account. He says TSB has now accepted 
taking money from the account and has refunded him but says if it hadnt taken the money in 
the first place then the account wouldnt have defaulted. Mr M would like the default removed 
from his credit file.
TSB says it overcharged Mr M about £92 in 2012 and about £40 in 2019/20. It says the 
account defaulted in 2020 and the balance was over £1,000 at the time in any event.
Mr M brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought the account defaulted in 2020 with a balance over £1,000 and the 
refunded payments wouldnt have impacted on that.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says there was an agreed overdraft balance of £1,000 
and so the account wouldnt have defaulted if the money hadnt been taken.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision and I confirm I have read about the 
background to this complaint.
I have looked at the events leading up to the account being defaulted in 2020/2021, I think 
there may be some confusion about the exact date. And Im satisfied that there was a clear 
dispute between the account holders and that TSB wanted the account balance repaid 
regardless of an agreed overdraft. So, I dont think it matters that there was an overdraft in 
place as TSB made clear that it either wished to agree a payment proposal or have the 
balance repaid. It follows that Im satisfied that Mr M was made aware of TSBs position and 
was unable to repay the balance which led to the default. I have read about what Mr M says 
about his employment position and inability to work at the time.
I am sure Mr M appreciates that an overdraft is repayable on demand. And Im satisfied that 
Mr M was unable to repay it. So, I dont think it matters that at a later stage TSB accepted it 
made a mistake and took a relatively small amount out of the account. I dont think that 
mistake had any impact on the decision to default the account or that mistake in itself led to 
the default. I find the default was registered as TSB wanted the balance repaid which Mr M 
was unable to do. And which he thought unfair due to circumstances he is aware of.
Overall, I dont think that this default could have been avoided in these circumstances and 
that TSBs mistakes in deducting money from the account didnt have any impact on that 
decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman