DRN-4152235
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complained that Vitality Health Limited declined to pay for treatment under 
their medical insurance policy.
What happened
Our investigator reviewed the evidence but didnt recommend that Mr H and Mrs Hs 
complaint be upheld. He didnt find that Vitality unfairly declined Mrs Hs claim for treatment. 
Mr H and Mrs H appealed. They felt that the policy did cover the treatment as it was akin to 
reconstructive surgery to remove a tumour. They said that the treatment followed a 
procedure that Vitality had funded and had been recommended by their consultant. I issued 
a provisional decision on 26 April 2023. I said as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im not minded to uphold 
this complaint, but for different reasons to our investigator. My reasons are as follows:
Mrs H had surgery for bilateral Dupuytrens contracture in March 2022. In August 
2022 her consultant advised she have further casting and monitoring. Vitality said in 
its final response that it would only support this immediately after surgery. As the 
request was made some months later it was not covered by the policy. It does seem 
to me that each case should be considered very much on its own facts. In some 
circumstances it may be fair and reasonable to consider recommended casting some 
time later.
However, I dont agree with Mr and Mrs Hs contention that as Mrs Hs condition 
shares many clinical and cell biological features with cancer, the treatment should be 
available for up to five years following surgery. The policy does provide for 
reconstructive surgery under its cancer provisions, but I dont find they apply to Mrs 
Hs condition.
Nevertheless Vitality agreed that if it were provided with evidence of efficiency it 
would consider whether to make a contribution to Mrs Hs casting in accordance with 
the policy terms and conditions. Mrs H would still need to be a member, the 
treatment was by the same consultant who performed the surgery, and the hospital 
was on Mr and Mrs Hs list. If so, Vitality now says it wouldnt matter if the claim was 
made some months after treatment. Im satisfied that this is reasonable.
I note that Mrs Hs consultant has written to Vitality in support of the further 
treatment. That the treatment was advised doesnt necessarily mean it was covered 
by the policy. Vitality says that it has asked Mrs Hs consultant to provide national 
protocols or clinical trials regarding the efficacy of the treatment so it can evaluate 
this evidence. I find this is reasonable. But as that evidence is not to hand I am not 
minded to require Vitality to pay the claim now. If further evidence is forthcoming it 
would be reasonable for Vitality to consider it, and if insufficient explain why to Mr 
and Mrs H. 
I invited both parties to make any further submissions. Vitality didnt respond. Mr H and Mrs 
H sent a link to a clinical article. They wished to make the point that Dupuytrens contracture 
shares many clinical and cell biological features with cancer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not persuaded to change my provisional findings, which I adopt here. I 
say this because the point Mr H and Mrs H made in response to my provisional findings was 
not new evidence, I addressed the point in my provisional decision. 
Ive considered the clinical article and I note the author says it is conceivable that there may 
be a shared genetic predisposition to both cancer and Dupuytrens disease. A conclusion of 
the article is that physicians treating patients with Dupuytrens disease should recognise 
there is an unfavourable outlook with regard to several diseases, including cancer. But this 
doesnt persuade me that the policy wording for reconstructive surgery related to cancer is 
applicable in Mrs Hs case. Accordingly I dont find that it was unfair or unreasonable for 
Vitality to conclude that the treatment wasnt covered under Mrs Hs policy.
I remain of the opinion that it would be reasonable for Vitality to evaluate any further 
evidence it may receive from Mrs Hs consultant. It has agreed to do so. But as that 
evidence is not to hand I dont require Vitality to pay for the treatment on the basis of the 
evidence before me.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman