DRN-3613470
The complaint
Ms L complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CG) rejecting 
a claim under her pet insurance policy for treatment to her dog for vomiting and diarrhoea.
References to CG include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Ms L had a dog covered by a pet insurance policy with CG, taken out in 2017. In December 
2021 the dog experienced a problem with vomiting and diarrhoea. The dog was examined by 
a vet and treated for the problem.
 
Ms L made a claim for the cost of treatment (£1037.99) but CG declined the claim, saying 
the dogs clinical history indicated two previous incidents involving diarrhoea (in 2012 and 
early 2017). CG referred to the policy not covering pre-existing conditions that occurred or 
existed (or had shown signs or symptoms of existing in any form) before the policy began. 
They also said, had they been told of the previous incidents at the start of the policy, they 
would have added an endorsement, meaning cover wouldnt be provided for anything to do 
with the dogs digestive system and any resulting conditions. 
Ms L then complained to CG, but they didnt uphold her complaint. In their final response 
they again referred to the policy not covering pre-existing conditions. CG also noted the 
previous incidents of vomiting and diarrhoea before Ms L took out the policy and the point 
about  had they known - applying an endorsement to exclude cover for the dogs digestive 
system. Based on this, CG confirmed the decline of the claim.
Ms L then complained to this service, saying CG unfairly declined her claim on the grounds it 
related to a pre-existing condition. She didnt think the problem with vomiting and diarrhoea 
was due to pre-existing condition, saying the incident in 2017 was a post-operative reaction 
following surgery to remove as mass from the dogs eye. She wanted CG to settle her claim. 
Our investigator upheld Ms Ls complaint, concluding CG hadnt acted fairly. On CGs point 
that they would have applied (retrospectively) an endorsement had Ms L told them of the 
previous incidents involving vomiting and diarrhoea, she thought this would be a remedy 
under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) had Ms 
L made a misrepresentation (by not disclosing the previous incidents). She also thought Ms L 
hadnt been asked clear questions about - or disclose information on - the dogs clinical 
history or any existing pre-conditions. So, she didnt think CG could apply a (retrospective) 
endorsement to the policy and they should remove it.
On the decline of the claim under the pre-existing condition clause, she thought (given the 
policy definition of the clause) the previous incidents could fall within the definition. However, 
she noted the incident in 2017 had been explained as a post-operative reaction. And the 
2012 incident was a transient digestive upset in a one-year old dog. She also noted Ms Ls 
vet said the two incidents were unrelated to the dogs problem in 2021 (when no other 
digestive symptoms were noted). In the vets opinion, this meant there wasnt a pre-existing 
condition. The Investigator concluded CG couldnt rely on the pre-existing condition exclusion 
to decline the claim (or add an endorsement to the policy).
To put things right, the investigator thought CG should remove the endorsement and assess 
Ms Ls claim under the remaining terms and conditions. If CG accepted the claim (and Ms L 
had already paid the vets bill) interest should be added to the settlement of the claim. CG 
should also pay Ms L £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
CG disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In disagreeing, they noted Ms L hadnt declared the previous incidences of 
vomiting and diarrhoea when she took out the policy. Had she done, they would have 
applied the endorsement relating to the dogs digestive system. They also said as the 
second of the two previous incidents had occurred only five months prior to the policy being 
taken out, it would have been sufficiently recent for Ms L to have disclosed it  so they 
maintained their view she had made a misrepresentation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether CG has acted fairly towards Ms L.
 
The main issue in Ms Ls complaint is whether CG acted fairly in declining her claim by 
applying the policy exclusion for a pre-existing condition (the previous incidences of vomiting 
and diarrhoea). Ms L says CG acted unfairly in applying the exclusion, as she doesnt think 
the problem with vomiting and diarrhoea in 2021 was due to pre-existing condition. In 
support of this view, shes provided a statement from her vet saying the two previous 
incidents arent related to the problem in 2021. CG say it was fair to use the exclusion to 
decline Ms Ls claim. They refer to the two previous incidents of vomiting and diarrhoea and 
to the policy definition of a pre-existing condition.
 
Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant policy terms and conditions 
(particularly those referred to by CG in their final response) together with the supporting 
information and evidence, including the vets statement and the dogs clinical history. 
Looking at the policy terms and conditions first, CG refer in their final response to several 
sources. Firstly, the Insurance Product Information Document that states:
What is not insured?
Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-Existing Condition
Secondly, the policy terms and conditions include the same exclusion for Veterinary Fees, 
as well as an additional exclusion that states:
Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that showed Clinical Signs or Symptoms 
before Your Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period
Thirdly, CG refer to the General Exclusions section that states:
The following exclusions apply to the whole of this policy. We will not pay claims for 
any of the following reasons:
If We are made aware of any Pre-Existing Conditions at the time of a claim, 
these Pre-Existing Conditions will not be covered and We reserve the right [to] add a relevant endorsement(s) to Your Policy in respect of these Pre-
Existing Conditions.
While CGs final response doesnt include the definition of the term Pre-Existing Conditions 
the policy defines the term as:
Pre-Existing Condition means any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or 
Associated Condition which has happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms 
of existing in any form before the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
I think these policy terms and conditions (about the exclusion) are clear (and would have 
been clear to Ms L at the time she took out the policy). Having concluded the exclusion was 
clear, Ive gone on to consider whether it was reasonable for CG to apply it to decline the 
claim in 2021 for vomiting and Diarrhoea. As a general principle, where an insurer relies on 
an exclusion then the onus is on them to show that its reasonable to apply it. To that extent, 
I dont think its relevant to consider the specific issue of the decline of the claim in terms of 
whether Ms L made a misrepresentation when she took out the policy (given its clear that 
pre-existing conditions arent covered under the policy). Ive also noted CG, in their final 
response, didnt seek to decline Ms Ls claim because she made a misrepresentation when 
taking out the policy (they sought to rely on the policy exclusion).
I also know its industry practice for pet insurance policies to often exclude pre-existing 
conditions from cover. Given this, I wouldnt have expected CG to have asked a specific 
question about a particular condition (which would imply theyd have to ask about each 
individual condition separately, which I dont think reasonable, or practicable).
Coming back to the specific issue of whether CG acted fairly in applying the pre-existing 
condition exclusion to decline the claim, Im not persuaded they did act fairly. Ill set out why 
Ive come to that view. Ms Ls view is that the 2021 incident wasnt due to a pre-existing 
condition and wasnt related to the two previous incidents in 2012 and 2017. In support of 
this view, shes provided a statement from her vet, which says:
in my opinion the bout of post-operative diarrhoea 5 years ago (2017), and the 
transient digestive upset episode as a 1 year old dog 10 years ago (2012) are not 
related to [the dogs] recent problems.
As no other digestive symptoms have been noted in the intervening 10 years there is 
no evidence that this dog has had an underlying pre-existing condition. These two 
historical episodes were transient, of a commonly occurring nature, and not what a 
normal person would recognise as a previous condition.
I think, coming from a familiar with the dog and its clinical history, this is persuasive. So, Ive 
concluded it wasnt reasonable for CG to treat the 2021 incident as being a pre-existing 
condition (and therefore declining the claim).  
While the decline of the claim was the key issue in Ms Ls complaint, I have considered the 
other issues. On the question of whether CG can reasonably include in the policy an 
endorsement to exclude from cover the dogs digestive system, given my conclusion that 
applying the pre-existing condition exclusion to decline Ms Ls complaint was unfair, then it 
follows it would be unfair to retrospectively apply an endorsement to the policy (as that would 
have the effect of enabling CG to decline the claim).
 
However, it wouldnt preclude CG including an endorsement in the future (when the policy 
comes up for renewal). Thats because its a commercial decision for CG to take (and 
include it within the terms and conditions of the cover theyre willing to offer). Its then for Ms L to decide whether to accept a policy on those terms (and the premium to be charged). The 
documents Ive seen indicate the policy is an annual one, so CG can propose changes to the 
policy including the terms and conditions (and any endorsement) and for Ms L to decide 
whether to accept them.
Given these conclusions, Ive thought about what CG need to do to put things right. As I 
dont think they can rely on the exclusion to decline the [2021] claim for treatment of the 
dogs vomiting and diarrhoea, then they should reassess the claim in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy, including any limits on the costs of treatment and any 
policy excess (as appropriate).
 
If CG accept the claim following their reassessment, if Ms L has already paid for the cost of 
treatment, then in addition CG should also pay interest at a rate of 8% simple from the date 
Ms L paid the cost of treatment to the date they settle the claim. 
On the question of compensation, given my conclusion CG unfairly declined Ms Ls claim I 
think CG should pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused the Ms L. 
Taking account of all the circumstances of the case I think £100 would be reasonable.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Ls complaint. I require 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Reassess Ms Ls claim for treatment of the dogs vomiting and diarrhoea in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, including any limits on the costs of 
treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate).
Pay Ms L £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd accept the claim following their 
reassessment, if Ms L has already paid for the cost of treatment, then in addition they should 
also pay interest at a rate of 8% simple from the date Ms L paid the cost of treatment to the 
date they settle the claim.
 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 
days of the date on which we tell it Ms L accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this 
they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman