DRN-2039160
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Oakwood Finance Ltd (Oakwood) trading as Likely Loans  took a 
duplicate payment from this account leaving him short of money. He also complains that this 
has affected his credit file. He doesnt feel the £100 compensation Oakwood has offered him 
is enough.
What happened
Mr S says he took out a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement with Oakwood in July 2018.The loan 
was repayable over two years with monthly repayments of £113.94.
Mr S says he contacted Oakwood in March 2019 as he was having some financial issues. 
He says Oakwood agreed to put his account on hold for 30 days but then sent him a default 
notice the end of April 2019. In response to this Mr S  made a payment of £341.82 but says 
this payment was taken twice from his account leaving him short of funds. He says that 
initially Oakwood didnt uphold his complaint but then changed its view and offered him 
around £100 compensation. He doesnt feel this is enough for the stress he has had 
Oakwood looked at Mr Ss complaint twice. It concluded that that one payment of £341.82 
had been correctly made. But another pending payment for the same amount prevented Mr 
S from having access to those funds leaving him short of money. Oakwood accepted its 
initial response had not been satisfactory and offered to refund one regular months payment 
of £113.94 as a gesture of goodwill . It also removed a default from Mr Ss credit file but 
confirmed the account was still in arrears so Mr S would need to engage with Oakwood to 
resolve this.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He found that Mr S had been without funds for 
a few days. But felt Oakwoods offer to refund one months payment (£113.94) was fair.
Oakwood accepted his view, but Mr S didnt. He didnt feel the compensation was enough 
for all the calls he had to make to get things sorted after he received Oakwoods first final 
response letter.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view. He explained it was Mr 
Ss choice to continue dealing with Oakwood. He could have brought his complaint to us 
after he received the first final response letter. Mr S didnt say what level of compensation he 
felt would be appropriate .
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr S contacted Oakwood to advise of financial problems on 5 March 
2019. Oakwood put Mr Ss account on hold for 30 days to help him. But then issued a notice 
of default when Mr S didnt get back to Oakwood.
As a result of this notice Mr S made a payment of £341.82 to clear arrears on his account. 
Unfortunately, his bank made a pending payment of the same amount leaving  Mr S  
without access to the £342.82 pending payment. I dont think this was Oakwoods fault  and 
it has confirmed the second payment didnt show in its systems.
Oakwood refunded the payment that had gone through  on the basis that the pending 
payment would then go through . I think was a reasonable response to Mr Ss situation 
particularly as he  had been in touch about financial difficulties. 
Unfortunately, as the pending payment was never made this left Mr S having made no 
payment. And as he didnt then make the regular payments in May or June 2019 Oakwood 
issued a default. I dont think that was unreasonable at the time given the £341.82 was to 
clear arrears on the account, but the arrears increased with further missed payments.
Oakwood has accepted its customer service was poor. Mr S rang to ask why the default had 
been put on his credit file, but he never got a call back that he was promised. As a result of 
this Oakwood has arranged to remove the default. I think that is fair and I dont think there is 
much more that Oakwood could have done in that regard.  However  Mr Ss account is still in 
arrears and he will need to contact Oakwood, if he hasnt already done so, to work out a plan 
to address this.
I can appreciate Mr S would have found it stressful not to have had access to over £300 
whilst that money was a pending payment for Oakwood. I dont believe that was Oakwoods 
fault. I also  appreciate its taken some time to resolve this issue. But I think Oakwood has 
acknowledged its customer service could have been better and has offered to refund one 
months payment (£113.94). I think that is a reasonable offer and in line with any award for 
distress and inconvenience that I would have made.
My final decision
My decision is that Oakwood Finance Limited should pay refund Mr S one months payment 
(£113.94), if it has not already done so, as compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman