DRN-3148214
The complaint
G complains that QBE UK Limited trading as QBE European Operations (QBE) has unfairly 
avoided its policy.
 
What happened
G owns a commercial property with the insurance provided by QBE. QBE was notified of a 
claim by Gs director Mr H in July 2018 after the property had been damaged when used to 
cultivate cannabis plants. 
QBE initially rejected the claim under an exclusion which excludes liability for damage 
caused by persons lawfully on the premises. It believed the tenant of the property could have 
been the person responsible for the damage and declined the claim because of this.
Mr H disputed that the tenant was responsible as they were out of the country when the 
claim was made and the damage was noticed. He asked that the claim be reconsidered.
QBE reviewed the claim and said it believed Mr H had breached his duty of fair presentation 
when taking out the policy for G. As a result of this, it said it was entitled to avoid the policy. 
It was prepared to treat the breach as careless and said the premium of the policy would be 
returned  although it considered it most likely that the breach was deliberate or reckless.
It also said, if there hadnt been a breach of the duty of fair presentation, it still believed it 
would be fair to decline the claim. It cited a number of exclusions which it felt meant it would 
be fair for it to do this. Exclusion 4  which operates to exclude liability under the policy for 
damage caused by a person lawfully on the property. Exclusion 11  which operates to 
exclude damage caused by malicious persons whilst the property is unoccupied. It also felt 
G had failed to exercise reasonable care and precautions as expected under General 
Condition 21.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and said that she felt Mr H had breached his duty of 
fair presentation and QBE had acted fairly when it made the decision to avoid the policy. She 
explained in her view that she felt the relevant regulation was set out in the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations Act 2021 (CIDRA)  but later clarified the 
applicable regulation is set out in the Insurance Act 2015 as G is a commercial customer 
with a commercial policy. The remedies available under each are similar and this had no 
bearing on her outcome.
She explained that she didnt think she needed to consider any of the exclusions if QBE had 
acted fairly when avoiding the policy. But she did give her opinion on Exclusion 4. She 
explained had OBE needed to consider the claim, she felt it would have been fair to apply 
this exclusion when considering the evidence provided.
G disagreed, Mr H made a number of arguments to explain why he didnt feel hed breached 
his duty of fair presentation and because of this, the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know this will be disappointing to G as the financial implications of the claim have been 
significant as well as the emotional impact of this on Mr H and his family. But Ill explain why 
Ive reached this decision. 
The Insurance Act 2015 (the act) sets out the requirements on a commercial customer and 
the remedies available to an insurer if these arent complied with. This includes the duty on 
G and Mr H to make a fair presentation of the risk. If theres a qualifying breach the insurer 
may be entitled to avoid the policy and, depending on the reasons for the breach, also be 
entitled to keep the premium for the insurance.
The question I need to consider here is whether G and Mr H breached its duty of fair 
presentation of the risk. If I think it did, Ill then consider whether the remedy sought by QBE 
is fair. 
QBE has said the following question was answered incorrectly when the policy was taken 
out:
Have you or any partner, director or any other person responsible for managing the 
business, which is the subject to the Insurance Contract or any other business in which you 
or they have been trading ever:-
Been declared bankrupt and/or have been subject to any winding up order, liquidation or 
administration, been the subject of a County Court Judgement (or Scottish equivalents) in 
respect of debt as private individuals or in connection with any business or have made any 
composition or arrangement with creditors.  
Mr H answered this question with a no.
QBE doesnt think this is a fair presentation of the risk. It says Mr H knew or should have 
known when answering this question that a person closely associated to the managing of the 
business had been declared bankrupt in the past. And as this person had been declared 
bankrupt in the past more than once, had it been aware of this, the cover would not have 
been provided. 
Mr H has denied that his friend referred to as Mr G is a partner, director or person 
responsible for the managing of the business. He said he is the only director of G and the 
information provided by Mr G previously to QBE doesnt indicate he meets this definition. 
Ive considered both what Mr H and Mr G said to QBE when the claim was raised. And 
whether I think QBE acted fairly when stating the question answered above didnt give a fair 
presentation of the risk.
Mr G gives the following definition of his role with G within his witness statement dated 
9/10/18:
I operate a building company and I work closely with Mr H who owns a company call XXX. I 
have no involvement with this company but I am a silent partner with him in the two buildings 
he owns. There is no legally binding partnership agreement even though Ive provided 
finance for the purchase of the buildings. We have known each other for the last 10 years and there is a very strong trust between us. My part of the agreement is to look after the 
maintenance of the buildings and collect the rent from the tenants. 
Mr H has been provided with this statement and extracts of it a number of times. Hes 
consistently denied the meaning of what was said and provided reasons why Mr G doesnt 
meet the definition of a partner, director or person of responsibility within the business. 
Having considered these and the statements he made in his witness statement, Im not 
persuaded this is the case.
I think the meaning of what was said and intended by Mr G in his witness statement is clear. 
Whether a confirmed partner or director or not, the clear intention is to show a person who 
was closely related to the managing of the business. Mr Hs witness statement makes the 
following statements which confirm this understanding of Mr Gs role was mutual with a clear 
reliance on Mr G and his responsibilities with the managing of the business. Mr G arranged 
the tenancy for the property and his associate collected the rent each month. Mr H said the 
following to demonstrate his level of involvement and the responsibility placed on Mr G:
I have known XX for over 10 years and I have complete trust in him. He made all the 
arrangements for the tenancy and used XX as a go between
I had nothing to do with the property as I left it to XX to handle. There was actually nothing 
for me to do and I concentrated on running my main business XX. I never met the tenant.
Mr H later talks about months when the rent for the property was late and explains why 
neither Mr G or himself were concerned about this, giving an indication of shared 
responsibility and the trust spoken about by both.
I understand that Mr H has explained, as has Mr G in later statements, why what was said 
originally was wrong and gives an incorrect picture. I understand some of the information 
may have been couched in a way to demonstrate more responsibility then was actually 
there. But I dont think it takes away from the fact that Mr G did have the responsibility for the 
day to day running of G. He organised the tenant for the property, made sure rent was 
collected and was there to give reassurance when it was running late. Mr H was left to focus 
on running his other main business and by default, whether with intention or not, Mr G took 
the role of managing G and was responsible for not only the property maintenance but 
arranging everything above.
Based on the above, I think Mr G was a person responsible for managing the business and 
his previous financial status should have been considered when the question highlighted by 
QBE was answered. Hed been declared bankrupt in 2013 and 2016 and this wasnt 
disclosed when the policy was taken out. So the question should have been answered yes to 
give a fair presentation of the risk. When this was answered no the duty was breached.
Mr H may not have called Mr G his manager and I dont think it is fair to say he is a director 
or partner. But the absence of a managers title doesnt take away from the fact he was 
acting as a manager for the business taking charge of everything that needed doing so Mr H 
could focus on his other main business. 
The act explains that QBE is entitled avoid the policy if theres been a qualifying 
misrepresentation. It asked a clear question which should have been answered differently 
and had it been, the cover would have been declined from the outset. 
I know our investigator considered whether QBE acted fairly when it applied exclusion 4, 
even though she felt it was fair to avoid the policy. I dont intend to consider this too.I think QBE has acted fairly inline with the remedies available under the act when avoiding 
Gs policy. Mr H failed to make a fair presentation of the risk from the outset and the offer to 
treat this as a careless breach and to refund the premium paid is fair. So I dont think QBE 
need to do any more in relation to this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Gs complaint against QBE European 
Operations.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 January 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman