DRN-3859543
The complaint
Miss G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund her £202.50 
after she says a cash machine failed to dispense her money.
What happened
On the 12 February 2022 Miss G attempted to withdraw £200 from her NatWest current 
account, using a cash machine owned by another business, which Ill call T. Miss G says 
she didnt receive her money, but £200 (along with the cash machine withdrawal fee of 
£2.50) was later debited from her account.
Miss G says that she originally requested this £200 from the machine, but when it wasnt 
dispensed she says she carried out another cash withdrawal, for £250, and did receive that 
cash from the machine. Miss G says she realised a few days later that both amounts had 
debited her account, so she contacted NatWest to let it know shed been charged for a 
transaction where the cash hadnt dispensed.
NatWest contacted T who provided it with information to show the cash had dispensed and 
the machine balanced, without any surplus funds. So NatWest didnt refund the money to 
Miss G.
As Miss G wasnt happy with NatWests decision she complained to our service. One of our
Investigators looked into Miss Gs complaint. He didnt think that NatWest had acted unfairly
in declining Miss Gs claim. And was satisfied that there wasnt enough evidence to indicate
theyd been a problem with the machine that day.
Miss G didnt accept our Investigators opinion, so her case has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator and for the same 
reasons.
The cash machine that Miss G used wasnt owned by NatWest but by T. T has provided 
evidence to show that the machine did not appear to have been tampered with. Theyve also 
provided evidence to show that the machine balanced  meaning there werent any surplus 
funds identified in the cash machine  and a copy of the journal roll which gives a breakdown 
of the transactions which took place before and after Miss Gs.
NatWest has also commented that it does not feel Miss G has been consistent in her 
recollection of what happened. In her original call to it  which I have listened to  she said it 
was the payment for £250 which had not been dispensed, rather than the £200. NatWest 
also notes that the £250 withdrawal was made at a different cash machine on a different 
day, which is not in line with what Miss G has said happened.
Ive though carefully about what NatWest and Miss G have said, and from what Ive seen, I 
dont think its unreasonable for NatWest to decline Miss Gs request for a refund.
T has evidenced that the cash machine balanced. If Miss Gs withdrawal hadnt dispensed, 
Id have expected to see a £200 surplus. And Miss Gs recollection of what happened is not 
supported by the evidence, the journal roll for the cash machine does not show that she 
made a withdrawal for £250 that day, only the £200 withdrawal is shown. So I consider it is 
more likely than not that the £200 did dispense.
I realise this will be very disappointing for Miss G, but I dont think NatWest need to
do anything further here. And I wont be asking it to refund Miss G the £202.50.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman