DRN-3182986
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about the fees and charges theyve incurred on their 
mortgage which is currently held by Mars Capital Finance Limited.
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out this mortgage in 2008 with a different lender. Mars Capital acquired 
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage on 28 February 2015 as part of a portfolio that was transferred.
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs H have been in arrears for most of the time theyve had this 
mortgage. Historically theyd made sporadic payments over the years, missing many months 
running and then making a lump sum payment to cover the missed payments when legal 
action was taken.
Mr and Mrs H complained about the charges in May 2019. They highlighted various charges 
they didnt feel were fair, and asked they be refunded.
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She said that we 
could only consider the period since Mars took over the mortgage on 28 February 2015, and 
that all but one of the fees were fairly charged. She told Mars she didnt think the £50 
litigation fee charged on 28 February 2015 was fair, and also questioned whether interest 
was charged on the other fees as sometimes they were charged at the start of the month, 
and later reversed at the end of the month. She said if interest had been charged on those 
fees, then any that were later reversed should also have the interest reversed.
Despite chase ups and a final deadline being given, Mars didnt respond and so the case 
has now been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mars says its only responsible for Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage from when it acquired it. Ive 
seen evidence of the terms on which the mortgage (and others in the portfolio) was acquired 
and, based on what Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably find that Mars is responsible for 
dealing with anything that happened  or was charged  before 28 February 2015.
Having reviewed the transaction history I agree with our investigator that the £50 litigation 
fee charged on 28 February 2015 needed evidence to prove it was fairly charged. Mars has 
had months to provide that evidence, but nothing has been forthcoming. As Ive not been 
provided with any evidence to show that fee was fairly charged Im ordering that be reversed 
back onto the account as at the day it was charged.
Im satisfied the remaining fees and charges were reasonable in the circumstances. I say 
this because they were charged in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage and were based on the account conduct. The account was in arrears for much of 
that time, with only sporadic payments, and legal action has taken place. The contact notes 
show Mars was actively working on the account, but there was minimal engagement from 
Mr and Mrs H.
The contract Mr and Mrs H entered into required the contractual monthly payment to be 
made in full in the month it was due. But for much of the term Mr and Mrs H didnt pay for 
months at a time, and then would pay a lump sum equivalent to the missed payments plus 
costs once an eviction was imminent. Due to that  and due to the lack of engagement from 
Mr and Mrs H  the fees and charges mounted up on this account, and they were fairly 
charged. The terms of the mortgage account allow Mars to add fees to the account and so I 
cant say it acted inappropriately here.
Our investigator said any interest charged on the fees that were later reversed should also 
be reversed, and I agree. It may be interest wasnt charged on the fees and charges, in 
which case Mars simply needs to confirm that to Mr and Mrs H. However if interest was 
charged on the fees and charges, then any fees and charges that were added to the account 
at the start of the month and then later reversed at the end of the month should also have 
the interest adjusted so no interest was incurred on those.
   
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, but only insofar as I order Mars Capital Financial Limited to reverse 
the £50 litigation fee charged on 28 February 2015, and reverse any interest charged on any 
reversed fees for the time Mars held the account (if interest was charged).
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman