DRN-3029098
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out alongside a credit card in 2000. Mrs B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Bs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. Lloyds has sent me a copy of the credit agreement that Mrs B signed. In this, 
there was a separate section titled optional features and within this there was a brief 
description of PPI followed by a yes or no tick box option. I can see Mrs B selected 
yes and I think it was equally clear she could have selected no if she didnt want the 
policy. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs B so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
And the evidence about Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example, Mrs B was eligible for the cover 
and she didnt have any means to fall back on if she was unable to work, so she had a 
need for cover.
Mrs B initially told us that she was self-employed at the time of the sale. But looking at 
the application form she completed at the time, she selected the employed option 
instead of the self-employed one. We asked her representative for clarification on this 
point a number of times but didnt receive a response. With nothing else to suggest 
otherwise, I think its more likely what was written on the application form at the time is 
correct. So, with this in mind, I dont think there was anything about Mrs Bs employment 
or occupation which would have made it difficult for her to claim. Although Mrs B says 
she had a medical condition some time before the policy was taken out, I dont think it 
was wrong for Lloyds to have recommended it. I say this because Mrs B hasnt 
mentioned any ongoing or recurring issues in relation to the condition that could have 
affected her ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for 
mental health and back problems.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs B as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs B 
would have declined the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs B would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Bs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman