DRN-2754680
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M was involved in an accident. Admiral deemed the car a total loss and decided to settle 
the claim by paying the cars market value. They valued Mr Ms car at £7,468 and paid 
£7,118 after deducting the policys excess. Mr M thought the valuation was too low and says 
he tried to replace his car and couldnt get an offer within £2,000 of what Admiral paid.
Admiral said they had used two valuation guides to determine the value of Mr Ms car and 
offered the higher of the two values they obtained. 
Our investigator conducted his own search using the guides and said Admirals offer fell 
below the range of figures he had found. He asked Admiral to increase their valuation and 
pay Mr M the difference, but they didnt agree and said: 
If they were to provide a valuation at a manufacturer approved market, they would be 
over-indemnifying Mr M who bought his car from a private seller. 
They do not recognise one of the guides our investigator had looked at and so they 
dont think it should be used.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual car is. We look at 
whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the vehicle fairly. 
The terms of Mr Ms policy say Admiral will pay a cash sum to replace the damaged car 
and the most it would pay is the cars market value. The policy defines the market value as:
The cost of replacing your car, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and 
condition based on market prices at the time of the loss. Use of the term 'market' in which 
you would normally shop for your car e g. Retail value, will not apply if you bought your car 
privately or at an auction
Admiral has relied on the values for cars sold privately and have said the valuation guides 
theyve used generated values of £7,468 and £7,395 for Mr Ms car in this market. Ive 
thought about this and while their approach is in keeping with the terms of the policy, Im not 
satisfied its resulted in a fair and reasonable outcome for Mr M. Ill explain why.
When we consider what a fair market value of a car is, we assess the market value as the 
retail price the consumer would have had to pay to replace the car with a comparable vehicle 
at the time of loss. Admiral feel they would be over-indemnifying Mr M if they pay him the 
retail value of his car, but I dont agree. I say this because, I think Mr M is more likely to buy 
a replacement car in the retail market, which is commonly how replacement vehicles are 
bought. Mr M bought his car from a private seller more than three years ago and theres no 
guarantee hed be able to do the same now. I find that Admiral basing their valuation on the 
private market, unfairly limits Mr Ms ability to find a replacement car that is similar to his. 
Mr M says hed tried to replace his car but wasnt able to at the price Admiral paid him, and 
he has provided us with adverts for similar cars for sale. Its standard practice for the 
industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated market value of a car. And its not 
unreasonable that it does so, as the valuation the guides give are based on national 
research on likely selling prices of similar cars with similar age and mileage for sale at the 
time of loss. We find theyre more reliable than individual adverts, which can vary greatly in 
price and can be misleading as often vehicles arent sold at the advertised price. Once 
negotiations take place, vehicles may sell for a lower price than advertised. 
When considering a fair market value for Mr Ms car in the retail market, the valuation guides 
Admiral looked at, both gave higher values than Admirals valuation of £7,468. The guides 
valued the car at £8,980 and £8,600. Our investigator looked at a third guide which produced 
a value of £9,637, but I find its valuation of Mr Ms car out of line with the other two guides. 
As such Ive relied on the two guides closest in value, which are the same guides Admiral 
used.
Putting things right
I think a fair way to settle Mr Ms claim, would be to take an average of the two guides 
closest to each other, so I think Admiral should increase their valuation to £8,790. Admiral 
have already paid Mr M for his car, so they should pay him the difference between what they 
have already paid and this figure. They should also pay 8% simple interest per year on the 
difference, from the date they initially paid Mr M for his car to the date they pay the increased 
amount. While this isnt the amount Mr M would like, I think this value is fair.
My final decision
 For the reasons mentioned, I uphold this complaint and I require Admiral Insurance 
Company Ltd to increase their valuation to £8,790 and pay Mr M the difference between this 
figure and what they have already paid him. So, they should pay £1,322 to Mr M directly. 
They should also pay 8% simple interest on this amount per year from the date they initially 
paid Mr M for his car to the date they pay him the increase. If Admiral Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. 
It should also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman