DRN-2081689
The complaint
Mrs A complains that the vehicle she acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed 
by MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. She wants to end the agreement 
and reject the vehicle.
What happened
Mrs A tells us that in early September 2019 she acquired the vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to 
as V. She says that on the drive home after collecting the vehicle the tyre pressure monitor 
warning appeared. She states she reported this to V who diagnosed a faulty sensor. She 
says as a spare wasnt available, she was told it would have to be ordered.  
Mrs A explains that the vehicle eventually went back to V on 10 October at which time she 
also mentioned a brake noise. She explains that she thought both issues were to be fixed. 
But immediately after collecting the vehicle she says the warning reappeared. Mrs A says at 
this stage she decided to reject the vehicle. And she notified MotoNovo of her decision.
Mrs A explains that due to the nature of her employment a reliable, roadworthy vehicle is 
essential. And that shed lost business due to the faults with the vehicle. She says shes 
used an alternative vehicle in order to allow her to maintain her employment. And that the 
previous vehicle has remained unused other than for short trips to keep the engine turned 
over. And having to keep two vehicles has led to further expense.
MotoNovo issued a final response letter (FRL) on 21 November 2019. It acknowledged that 
an independent inspection of the vehicle by a company Ill refer to as A had said that V 
would be liable for the repairs. But whilst it was upholding Mrs As complaint, it said it wasnt 
agreeable to accepting rejection of the vehicle as V hadnt had the chance to complete the 
repairs. It said it was refunding two monthly payments (£313.08) in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She said the vehicle hadnt 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. She found that hered been one attempt at repair 
which still hadnt resolved the problem with the faulty tyre pressure monitor. And she thought 
Mrs A was entitled to end the agreement and reject the vehicle.
MotoNovo hasnt replied to the investigators view. Mrs A accepted it. As its not been 
possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs A would be concerned that the vehicle she acquired should have 
displayed faults with brakes and the tyre pressure monitor so soon after supply. And that the 
nature of her employment meant that this caused more difficulty than might otherwise have 
been the case.
Mrs As hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. MotoNovo supplied the vehicle so its responsible 
for complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The CRA states that in order to conform to contract 
goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined being 
what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects 
of price and previous use.
Theres very little factual dispute in this case. The major differences are whether or not V 
had the opportunity to attempt to repair the vehicle. And, dependent upon the findings in 
respect of that issue, whether Mrs A should be allowed to reject the vehicle and end the 
agreement. 
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I understand that MotoNovo would be largely dependent upon V providing it with a history of 
how it (V) dealt with Mrs As complaint before it became known to MotoNovo.
Unfortunately, Vs explanations havent always been consistent.
Following what she alleged to be Vs failure to replace the tyre pressure sensor on 10 
October Mrs C complained to MotoNovo on 11 October 2019. And as MotoNovo didnt hear 
back from V it arranged for an independent inspection to be carried out.
On 5 November 2019, A inspected the vehicle. It confirmed the tyre pressure warning light 
illuminated. And it detailed the presence of a fault code relating to the same issue. It 
concluded the fault wouldve probably been present at the point of supply. 
Subsequently MotoNovo contacted V who accepted that the part had needed to be ordered. 
It (V) told MotoNovo that when it had seen the vehicle it had cleared the fault code and 
ordered the part. But it hadnt attempted any repair. It said it had then tried to contact Mrs A 
to have the repair completed after it had obtained the part.
MotoNovo then issued its FRL on 21 November upholding Mrs As complaint but declining 
her request to reject the vehicle on the basis that V hadnt been given the chance to repair 
the vehicle.
During the course of the investigation into the complaint Ive been provided with an email 
trail between V and MotoNovo. One email stated the part had arrived with V on 24 
September 2019. And that numerous attempts at contact had been attempted with Mrs A. But given the vehicle was seen by V on 10 October that would cast doubt on why the sensor 
wasnt fixed at the same time as the brakes. I conclude that V did have the chance to repair 
the vehicle on 10 October but didnt fully complete the required repairs.
In the light of the above findings I think its fair and reasonable that Mrs A should now be 
able to end the agreement and reject the vehicle. I say this despite being aware that shes 
again been contacted by V to say it will complete the repair. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that the vehicle supplied to Mrs A was not of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply on 6 September. Mrs A wouldve had the right to reject the vehicle at that 
point but was prepared to allow V to repair it.
Where the supplier is entitled or permitted to undertake repairs, the CRA states that these 
should be carried out within a reasonable time and without causing significant inconvenience 
to the consumer.
The information shows that Mrs A complained in early September, yet the fault was still 
unrepaired when A inspected the vehicle two months later. I dont think its reasonable to 
expect a consumer to have to wait this amount of time. And Ive been provided with 
information from Mrs A to show that it caused significant inconvenience to her in terms of the 
effect it had on her employment. 
Although MotoNovo has suggested that V shouldve had the opportunity to repair the vehicle 
its not disputed that the vehicle was returned to V for the brake noise to be fixed. But this 
was over a month after Mrs A had raised the issue of the fault with the tyre pressure monitor. 
In my opinion that was ample time to fix both faults. 
In summary, in my opinion the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality when supplied. And 
even when one of the reported faults was repaired the issue with the tyre pressure sensor 
remained unresolved. This caused significant inconvenience to Mrs A. I find Mrs A should 
now be allowed to end the agreement and reject the vehicle.
Our investigator recommended a 20% reduction in monthly payments for the period of time 
Mrs A had use of the vehicle up to 10 October 2019. But as MotoNovo refunded two monthly 
payments, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to make this award in addition, when its already 
covered by that refund. I understand Mrs A accepts this.
Mrs A has told us she had to use another vehicle she had available in order to maintain her 
employment. And that this caused additional expense and inconvenience. As a result she 
says the financed vehicle has largely remained unused other than to keep the engine turned 
over.
In those circumstances it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to require Mrs A to pay for the 
vehicle whilst the complaint has been investigated. And given she sought to reject it after the 
failed repair on 10 October 2019 I dont think any further charges should arise after that date.
As MotoNovo refunded two monthly payments for impaired use which overlaps the period 
between Mrs A acquiring the vehicle on 6 September and the date of her attempted rejection 
(11 October) it wouldnt be fair for there to be double recovery. So it can deduct a sum 
equivalent to one monthly payment from any payments made after 10 October 2019 from 
any refund.Putting things right
1. End the agreement with nothing further for Mrs A to pay;
2. Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mrs A;
3. Refund Mrs A her cash deposit;
4. Refund Mrs A all payments made for any period accruing after 10 October 2019; 
MotoNovo may deduct one monthly payment from this amount in light of previous 
refund;
5. Pay compensation to Mrs A of £300.00 for distress and inconvenience;
6. Arrange for any adverse entries relating to this agreement to be removed from Ms 
As credit file. The agreement should be recorded as having been settled.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should be added to payments arising from items 3 
and 4 above.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint. 
I require MotoNovo Finance Limited to take the action that Ive detailed in the immediately 
preceding paragraph. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman