DRN-1478006
The complaint
Mr C says Emergency Cash Limited trading at the time as Wizzcash.Com irresponsibly lent 
to him and that the loan given was unaffordable.  
What happened
This complaint is about one loan Wizzcash provided to Mr C on 27 April 2015 with 
repayments to be made over three months. Mr Cs borrowing history is set out on the table 
below as follows:
 
LoanDate Taken
OutDate Repaid AmountHighest
Repayment
1 27/04/2015 Outstanding £300 £149.24
 
Mr C said he couldnt afford to make the repayments towards the loan, as he was borrowing 
from multiple lenders at the time and was using the proceeds from one loan to repay another 
loan.
Wizzcash in its final response didn't uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said it carried out 
proportionate checks at the time of approving this loan for Mr C. These checks included 
looking at Mr Cs declared income and outgoings and a credit search. All this showed that Mr 
C had enough disposable income to afford the repayment for this loan.
Our adjudicator didn't think this complaint should be upheld. Mr C disagreed with this view 
and asked that his matter be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. So, the 
complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Wizzcash needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Wizzcash should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Wizzcash was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why below.
Wizzcash said it had bought several credit reports from two different and leading credit 
reference agencies and also asked for Mr Cs declared expenditure and credit expenses. On 
the evidence collected it said there was no evidence that the loans weren't affordable.
For this loan Mr C declared  an income of £1,600 per month and Wizzcash said it verified 
this in a call to his work. Mr C also told Wizzcash that his expenditure was £750. This 
included expenses broken down for housing costs of £400, food - £150, transport of £50 and 
other monthly credit commitments of £150. This would have resulted in a disposable income 
of £850. So all in all Wizzcash thought he would be able to afford the repayments agreed.
The searches Wizzcash carried out revealed no evidence of Individual Voluntary 
Arrangements, County Court Judgments, bankruptcy or other debt management plans.As I explained early on in the relationship Wizzcashs searches should be proportionate. 
This was Mr Cs first loan so I think the checks it carried out were proportionate and there 
was nothing I can see in the information it obtained which would have led it to believe it had 
to start verifying the information Mr C provided or which might have alerted to the fact that 
Mr C was having problems managing his money. 
I can see as it happened that Mr C could not keep up with his repayments and Im sorry for 
the difficulty in which he found himself but for the reasons Ive given I dont uphold this 
complaint.
May I remind Wizzcash to treat Mr C fairly in relation to any outstanding payments and if it 
can come to a fair payment arrangement with Mr C then that would be preferable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman