DRN-3345983
Complaint
Ms M and Mr W have complained about the overdraft charges Santander UK Plc 
(Santander) applied to their current account. Theyve said that the charges are unfair and 
excessive.
Background
Ms M and Mr Ws complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that 
Santander had done anything wrong and so didnt uphold the complaint. 
Ms M and Mr W disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Ms M and Mr Ws 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Santander charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And while Ms M and Mr W say the 
charges are excessive and not proportionate this simply isnt something for me to get 
involved with, no matter how dissatisfied they may be with Santander about this.
That said, while Im not looking at Santanders charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Ms M and Mr W if it applied these interest, fees and charges to 
Ms M and Mr Ws account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Ms M and Mr W were experiencing financial difficulty. 
So Ive considered if there were instances where Santander didnt treat Ms M and Mr W 
fairly and reasonably. In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where 
Santander continued charging Ms M and Mr W even though it ought to have known they 
were in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised this was the case. Ive looked through 
the account statements provided throughout the period concerned. And I cant see that 
Santander ought to have been aware that Ms M and Mr W might have been struggling 
during the period weve looked at. 
Ms M and Mr W did use their overdraft regularly and they may say that this in itself ought 
reasonably to have led Santander to realise that it was unfair to charge them. But its clear 
that funds were regularly being paid into the account. And these suggested that Ms M and 
Mr W were in a position to repay the balance within a reasonable period of time. Equally, 
while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Ms M and Mr Ws 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions account going from the account. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Ms M and Mr W 
werent experiencing financial difficulty. But, in the absence of Ms M and Mr W saying 
anything, I dont think that the transactions themselves ought to have alerted Santander to 
potential financial difficulty, or prompted it to take corrective action in relation to the overdraft 
facility. In my view, taking such action her would have been disproportionate bearing in mind 
the likely impact on Ms M and Mr Ws credit rating and most crucially there was no 
suggestion they werent in a position to repay their overdraft within a reasonable period of 
time.
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Ms M and Mr W, I 
dont think that it was unreasonable for Santander to have proceeded adding the charges 
that it did add. As this is the case, I dont think Santander charged Ms M and Mr W in 
circumstances where it ought to have realised that it was unfair to do so and Im not 
upholding Ms M and Mr Ws complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Ms M and Mr W  especially as they have 
quite rightly pointed out that they have been waiting sometime for an answer from us. But I 
hope theyll understand the reasons for my decision and that theyll at least feel their 
concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms M and Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman