DRN-2523051
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1998. The policy was taken out in 
Mr Hs name only and covered the mortgage repayments if he was off work sick or became 
unemployed.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs H didnt 
agree. Mr H replied in detail and our adjudicator responded to the points hed made and 
explained why this didnt change her conclusion. Mr H asked for the complaint to be passed 
to an ombudsman. In summary, his main points are that:
The policy was not fit for purpose because he had sufficient financial cover in place.
He and his wife were subject to Nationwides hard sale tactics  they were told there 
was no guarantee of an early mortgage offer unless they took the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Nationwide hasnt been able to provide the original paperwork from the time of the sale, 
which isnt unreasonable or unsurprising given this took place more than two decades ago 
and the mortgage account has long since closed. In cases like this, where the evidence is 
incomplete or contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that 
is, to decide what is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs H, I cant conclude this particular PPI policy was 
mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr H says Nationwide effectively didnt give them a choice about taking the policy. He says 
they were told the quickest way of getting their mortgage application approved was to take 
the policy. I accept its possible, and quite likely, that Nationwide may have strongly 
encouraged them to take the PPI. And that buying a house is a stressful and emotional time 
when its important that a mortgage is in place without any undue delay. But I cant fairly 
uphold the complaint based solely on Mr Hs recollections 20 years on, particularly as Ive 
not been told clearly about anything specific the business did or said which might have 
persuaded me that Mr and Mrs H felt unfairly pressured to take the policy.
Overall, and taking into account the documentation that would have been used at the time, 
including a separate PPI application form, I think its most likely that Nationwide gave Mr and 
Mrs H a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time  despite 
what they say now.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs H, so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for them or check their existing arrangements. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs H 
clear information about the PPI, so they could decide for themselves whether it was right for 
them.
Its not clear whether the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs H 
before they agreed to purchase it. I think its possible they werent told how much it would 
cost each month until after the mortgage had started. For this reason, I have considered 
whether clearer information about the cost would have affected Mr and Mrs Hs decision to 
purchase the policy. Ive found that theyd chosen to take out the policy and would have 
known they would have to pay something for it. The policy was competitively priced and, 
whilst I note Mr Hs comments about the cost over the period the mortgage was in place, 
apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely they would have made a different decision if 
better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt adequately point out the main things the policy wouldnt 
cover. But Mr H wasnt affected by any of those things, so I dont think knowing about them 
would have made a difference to his and Mrs Hs decision to take the PPI.
Ive considered what Mr H has told us about his financial situation at the time and the 
arrangements he had in place if he couldnt work due to sickness or an accident. Although it 
wasnt Nationwides responsibility to find out about these  it wasnt providing Mr and Mrs H 
with a personal recommendation  if I thought Mr H had adequate arrangements in place, it 
might indicate he didnt understand the benefits of the policy and that the information hed 
been given wasnt clear.
Mr H told us he was entitled to generous sick pay from his employer  he would have 
received six months full pay followed by six months half pay. He and Mrs H most likely had 
some savings in place  equivalent of one to two months pay. But the PPI would have paid 
out in addition to their work benefits and for up to 24 months for accident and sickness 
claims. It would have allowed them to use any employee benefits to cover other living 
expenses whilst not working and it would have kept their savings intact for their future needs 
or their original purpose. The PPI also covered Mr H  for up to 12 months - if he became 
unemployed. The mortgage was a significant long-term financial commitment and Mr and 
Mrs Ms home was at risk if they didnt keep up with the repayments. So, overall, I dont think 
their existing arrangements made the PPI unsuitable.
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs H may have had recourse to other financial support. 
Mr H has provided us with information about various life and endowment policies they had in 
place. But these were long term policies which didnt duplicate the protection afforded by the 
PPI. And whilst they may have been able to call on family members for help, this was not a 
guaranteed source of funds. Likewise, having the PPI in place would have allowed them to 
continue to meet their mortgage payments without the need for Mrs H to find a job or 
increase her working hours  particularly at a time when she might have needed to care for 
Mr H.
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs H that I have carefully considered everything theyve told us 
and the evidence theyve provided. I have focussed my decision on what I think are the main 
areas of consideration. And I appreciate Mr H feels very strongly that he was mis-sold PPI. 
I think its understandable that he says that now, in view of the publicity about the mis-sale of PPI. I appreciate Mr H will disagree with me, but Im not persuaded that this was the case in 
1998 when he took the PPI. 
For these reasons, I don't think Mr and Mrs H lost out as a result of anything Nationwide 
might have done wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman