DRN-3518900
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc intends to reduce the amount it will pay for a 
subsidence claim he made on his home insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
In September 2019, Mr B took out a home insurance policy for his property through a 
broker. It was underwritten by AXA. His property was insured for £208,525.
In July 2020 he got in touch with AXA after he noticed cracking at the property. It 
appointed a loss adjuster to handle the claim.
The loss adjuster thought the damage was caused by subsidence and arranged for 
further investigations.
It also said Mr B was underinsured. It thought the cost of rebuilding the property was 
around £357,000. As a result, it said it would pay 58% of the repair cost and Mr B 
would have to make up the difference.
Mr B didnt think this was fair and complained to the broker, which Ive considered 
separately. He also complained to AXA. It didnt provide a response in time, so he 
referred his complaint to this service. AXA then told us it thought the rebuild value 
was £293,000. That would mean Mr B was insured for around 71% of the repair cost.
Our investigator didnt think AXA had acted fairly. She thought AXA was effectively 
saying Mr B had made a misrepresentation when taking out the policy. So it should 
follow the relevant rules for that situation. And in this case, that would mean settling 
the claim according to the proportion of premium Mr B had paid, compared to that he 
would have paid if the property had been insured for £293,000. That comes to 78%.
AXA disagreed. It said the misrepresentation rules and the policy terms were 
separate things and it was entitled to rely on the policy terms alone.
An agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the complaint against the broker separately, so I wont go into detail 
about that here. This complaint is solely about the proportion AXA has offered to pay 
for the repair cost. So I havent gone into detail about what happened during the 
claim or considered the way its been handled.
AXA says it relied on a policy term to reduce the amount it would pay for the repairs. 
In summary this term says that if the amount Mr B is insured for is less than the full 
rebuilding cost of the property, the claim will be settled at the percentage Mr B is 
insured for. In this case thats 71%.
Im satisfied the term is in the policy and is clearly worded. However, in this case, Im 
not persuaded it would be fair to rely on it. Ill explain why.
This dispute centres on one thing  the amount Mr B insured the property for when 
he took out the policy. So, whilst I recognise AXA is only seeking to rely on a policy 
term, its ultimately doing so because it thinks Mr B didnt provide the right 
information at the time he took out the policy. Because of that, I think its fair to 
consider what happened at that time, as well as the policy term.
Before the policy started, AXA wanted to know how much it would cost to rebuild Mr 
Bs property and for that figure to be the sum insured.
AXA says £293,000 is a reasonable figure, whilst Mr B insured it for £208,525, 
almost 30% less. I think thats a significant difference. 
AXA has provided evidence to show why it thinks £293,000 is a reasonable estimate 
of the cost to rebuild the property. Its calculated the figure using guidance and 
methods provided by an independent and credible source, together with 
measurements and other details specific to Mr Bs property. Im persuaded its a 
thorough and detailed assessment.
Mr B doesnt have any evidence to challenge AXAs valuation or to show why the 
amount he insured his property for is a more accurate or reasonable valuation.
How Mr B came to be insured for a much lower amount is the subject of his separate 
complaint against the broker. But, as far as AXA is concerned, he insured his 
property for £208,525  and he doesnt have evidence to show why that is a 
reasonable estimate.
An estimate is a matter of opinion  there wont be one specific correct answer. 
Theres likely to be range of answers that are all reasonable. Because of that, the 
rules mentioned by the investigator, known as CIDRA, may not be appropriate to 
consider. Instead Ill decide this complaint according to what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. That includes taking into account the approach of 
this service prior to the introduction of CIDRA.
Im satisfied AXAs estimate is within the range of reasonable answers as its based 
on a thorough and specific assessment and no other evidence has been put forward 
to challenge it. Im not satisfied Mr Bs sum insured is within the range as its 
significantly different. So I think its fair to consider what impact Mr Bs estimate being 
unreasonable has had.
If Mr B had insured his property for £293,000, AXA says it would have charged a 
higher premium - £522.53 instead of the £407.04 it actually charged  to reflect the 
greater risk. That means Mr B paid around 78% of the premium he should have 
done. AXA is offering to pay 71% of the cost of repair by relying on the policy term.Whilst AXA is entitled to rely on the terms in its policy, Im not satisfied doing so 
would produce a fair and reasonable outcome in this case. It would mean Mr B has 
paid 78% toward the premium he should have done  but will only receive 71% of the 
repair value in return. In my view, it would be fair for him to receive the same 
contribution to the repair cost that he paid for the premium  78%.
AXA has been clear it intends to apply the proportionate reduction to the final repair 
cost only  not to other aspects of the claim, such as the investigation costs. Im 
satisfied thats a reasonable approach to take.
I understand the claim is ongoing and the cost of repairs is yet to be finalised. 
Because of that, I think the appropriate remedy at this stage is to set out the 
proportion of the repair cost AXA should pay when the time comes, rather than award 
a specific sum of money.
When AXA calculates the repair cost, it should reduce it to 78% and then apply the 
excess.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA responded to say it had nothing further to add.
Mr B let us know he accepted the findings of my provisional decision.
As neither party disagreed with or commented on my findings, I see no reason to change my 
mind or comment further in detail. I remain satisfied it would be fair to uphold this complaint 
for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to settle the claim based on 
paying 78% of the repair cost.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman