DRN-1641986
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies. 
What happened
In 1998 and 2000 Halifax sold Mr and Mrs B two PPI policies, paid for by regular premium. 
Both policies protected the repayments on their mortgages if, among other things, the 
insured was unable to work because of disability or unemployment. The first policy covered 
Mr B only whereas the second policy covered Mr and Mrs B.
Our adjudicator thought the first policy hadnt been mis-sold but that the second policy had. 
They said that Mrs B was suffering with a pre-existing medical condition (PEMC) that meant 
the second policy wasnt right for Mr and Mrs B. The parties accepted the adjudicators 
findings on the second policy. But, because Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicator 
about the sale of the first policy, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
In this decision, Ive focussed mainly on the sale of the first policy since the parties already 
agree  following our involvement  that the second policy was mis-sold.
Having done so, Ive decided that the first policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs B say they dont recall a discussion with Halifaxs adviser about PPI. 
Unfortunately, not much of the paperwork from the sales still available. Thats not surprising 
given the sale took place more than 20 years ago. 
That said, Ive no reason to believe from what Ive seen that Mr and Mrs B werent told about 
the PPI, or that they werent told it was optional, before it was added. As Mr and Mrs B 
accept themselves, that may well have been the case and they simply dont recall that now.
So, overall, Ive seen nothing to indicate that I should uphold the complaint on these 
grounds.
I think Halifax likely recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B. That meant Halifax needed to 
take steps to ensure its advice was right for them. Regardless of what steps it took, I think 
the PPI it recommended was right for them in any case. For example, Im satisfied that Mr B  as the only person insured by the PPI  was eligible 
for the cover. And I cant see that he (like Mrs B in relation to the second policy) was affected 
by the PPIs main exclusions and limitations, such as those relating to claims for PEMCs. 
I take Mr and Mrs Bs point that, in its final response letter, Halifax suggests that both were 
covered by the policy. Which meant the first policy was likely mis-sold for the same reasons 
that the second one was. But, from the information Ive seen, Im satisfied Halifax made a 
mistake there and that only Mr B was covered. I say that because Halifaxs internal records 
of the PPI and how it was set up at the time show as much. 
I also havent seen anything to suggest Mr and Mrs B would have found the premiums 
unaffordable. And the PPI was flexible in that they could have cancelled it at any time and at 
no extra cost. 
Mr B may well have received generous sick pay and/or redundancy pay from his employer 
as Mr and Mrs B argue. But the PPI benefits would have paid out on top of that and for up to 
12 months per claim. Although they say they had some savings, the PPI would have allowed 
them to retain those other means or use them towards covering their other daily living 
expenses if Mr B wasnt working.
Given the borrowing Mr and Mrs B arranged in 1998 was secured against their home  and 
considering the potentially serious consequences of them defaulting on their repayments  I 
think theyd have valued the extra security the PPI provided. 
Halifax also needed to ensure that it gave Mr and Mrs B enough information about the PPI 
for them to decide for themselves if it was right them. Its possible that the information it gave 
them could have been better than it was. But, for much the same reasons that I dont think 
the PPI was unsuitable for them, I dont think better information would have changed their 
minds about taking it. I think they would still have thought the PPI offered them useful cover 
at an affordable cost.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr and Mrs B have lost out because of how 
Halifax sold them the first PPI policy. But Halifax should put things right for them in relation 
to the second policy.
Putting things right
Halifax should put Mr and Mrs B in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out the 
second PPI policy in 2000. That policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled 
already, and Halifax should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Halifax can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must 
give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I require Bank of 
Scotland Plc to put things right for Mr and Mrs B as explained above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman