DRN-2282506
The complaint
Mr S says MYJAR Limited lent to him irresponsibly. He said that he had problems repaying 
the earlier loans he took and so MYJAR shouldve been aware he was in in financial difficulty 
and not continued to lend to him.  
What happened
This complaint is about five payday, and one instalment, loans MYJAR provided to Mr S 
between April 2016 and May 2019.
loan 
numberdate takenamount 
borrowedmonthly
instalmentsdate repaid
1 16/04/2016 £100 1 08/07/2016
2 30/09/2017 £175 6 27/04/2018
3 30/10/2018 £225 3 18/01/2019
4 18/01/2019 £300 3 12/04/2019
5 12/04/2019 £300 3 09/05/2019
6 17/05/2019 £375 3 outstanding
This complaint has been looked at a number of times here. And Ive thought about all of the 
things both sides have said in response to our adjudicators findings.  
The most recent adjudicator to look at this complaint partially upheld it. He thought that 
MYJAR was wrong to approve loans 2 to 6. This was because Mr S had struggled to repay 
loans 1 and 2. And whilst there were breaks in the lending between loans 1 and 2, and 2 and 
3, Mr S had been declined for loans within these breaks. Both of these showed Mr S was 
having financial problems. 
MYJAR disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that the loans that were declined 
were evidence of its procedures working well. And some of the declined loans were within a 
three month cooling off period that was applied after loan 1 and again after loan 2. 
As no agreement was reached the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to issue a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr S complaint in part and Ive explained why below.
Mr S didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loan 1. Because of this I dont think 
there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So I wont be making a decision about 
this lending. But it was part of the borrowing relationship Mr S had with MYJAR. So it is 
something I will take into account when considering the other loans he took.
Mr S had problems repaying loan 1 and he entered into a repayment arrangement to do this. 
He took around three months to repay a loan that had an initial term of one month. So as a 
starting point, in my view, this is a clear sign of financial difficulty. 
I can accept that it is reasonable to have a period where loan applications are declined after 
this, MYJAR has called this a cooling off period. But Mr S applied for, and was declined, 
four times between the end of loan 1 and the start of loan 2. Only one of these applications 
was within MYJARs cooling off period. 
This means that from the start of loan 1, to the start of loan 2, which is a period of not far 
short of a year and a half, Mr S was either having problems repaying his existing lending or 
his financial situation was such that MYJAR didnt think it was reasonable to approve any 
loans. And the situation is very similar before loan 3. Mr S had struggled to repay loan 2 and had 
been declined for further borrowing between loans 2 and 3. 
So, I think that after loan 1 MYJAR couldve realised at that time that Mr S may have some 
longer term financial problems rather than just using the loans to help with a temporary cash 
flow problem. MYJAR shouldve also become concerned about whether it knew enough 
about Mr S true financial situation.
I think that it wouldve been proportionate to fully review Mr S financial situation before 
approving loans 2 to 5.  And I think that MYJAR needed to verify the information it found out 
where possible. This is to make sure Mr S was in position to make the repayments 
sustainably.
I dont think MYJAR did this. So I need to think about what MYJAR wouldve likely seen if it 
had carried out proportionate checks. 
Mr S has provided some information about his financial circumstances which includes his 
bank statements. I accept that this isnt exactly what MYJAR wouldve seen at the time. But I 
think it wouldve found out similar information if it had made proportionate checks, so I think 
its reasonable to rely on it.
This shows that Mr S was having problems managing his money over this time. Most 
importantly he was borrowing and repaying significant amounts from other short term loan 
providers and he had been doing this for some time. 
I think that MYJAR wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate checks. 
And I think MYJAR wouldve seen Mr S wouldnt have been able repay loans 2 to 5 in a 
sustainable way. So I think that MYJAR shouldnt have given loans 2 to 5 to Mr S and I think 
hes lost out as a result of this. Im therefore upholding Mr S complaint about them.
Ive also considered the pattern of lending up to loan 6 and I think the lending history and 
pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that further lending would likely be 
unsustainable. So I think MYJAR was irresponsible to continue lending after this point. So 
Im also upholding Mr S complaint about loan 6.
 
Putting things right
MYJAR shouldnt have given Mr S loans 2 to 6.
If MYJAR has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If MYJAR is not able to buy the debts back then MYJAR 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) MYJAR should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.
B) MYJAR should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr S 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) MYJAR should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr S as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr S having made 
overpayments then MYJAR should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. MYJAR should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr S. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then MYJAR should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr S. MYJAR shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal MYJAR has already written-off.
E) MYJAR should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr S credit file in relation to 
loans 2 to 5. The overall pattern of Mr S borrowing by loan 6 means any information 
recorded about this loan is adverse, so it should remove loan 6 entirely from Mr S credit file. 
MYJAR does not have to remove loan 6 from Mr S credit file until it has been repaid, but 
MYJAR should still remove any adverse information recorded about this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to deduct tax from this interest. MYJAR should 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax MYJAR has deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr S complaint.
MYJAR Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman