DRN-4375012
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B are unhappy with the service provided by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited (Admiral) following a claim made on their home insurance policy.
Mr B and Mrs B are both parties to this complaint. Mr B has primarily dealt with this service. 
For ease of reference I have referred to Mr B throughout this final decision. 
Admiral are the underwriters of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of third 
parties instructed on the claim. Admiral have accepted they are accountable for the actions 
of third parties instructed by them. In my decision, any reference to Admiral includes the 
actions of any third party instructed by Admiral during the course of Mr Bs claim. 
 
What happened
In December 2022 Mr B returned home from holiday to find that water had escaped from his 
loft following a burst pipe. Mr B contacted Admiral to register a claim for the damage caused 
to his home, and contents. Admiral instructed a loss adjuster to assess the damage, and 
provide a scope of works. But Mr B didnt receive any material updates about his claim, and 
so made a complaint in February 2023.
Admiral recognised that the claim had not been handled in line with their usual service 
standards. Admiral offered Mr B £150 in recognition of the delays on the claim, and impact 
on Mr B. Mr B asked for this service to consider his complaint. After our involvement Mr B 
agreed to accept the £150 offered for the delay up to February 2023, but also made a further 
complaint about the lack of progress on his claim since the final response letter.
 
On 3 April Mr B sent a quote to Admiral from his own appointed contractor to complete the 
outstanding remedial work needed to settle the buildings part of his claim. Mr B also 
requested an allowance to compensate him for the additional expenses incurred as a result 
of living in his home with the repairs outstanding. Mr B continued to chase Admiral for a 
response. On 12 May Admiral agreed to settle Mr Bs claim for the building damage minus 
the xs. This was based on the estimate Mr B had provided in April. 
On 22 May Mr B was informed Admiral would pay a Disturbance Allowance of £10 per 
person for 145 days. Mr B was informed payment for £5,800 would be made in recognition of 
the four adults living in the property over that period. 
Mr B informed Admiral that a third party (company P) had caused damage to his wall when 
completing an investigation as part of the claims process. Admiral asked for a quote on 
headed paper to consider settlement of this part of Mr Bs claim. 
Admiral responded to Mr Bs second complaint on 21 June 2023, providing a response to 10 
issues raised by Mr B. Broadly Mr Bs complaints concerned the delay in settling his claim, 
the amount offered for the buildings part of his claim, the customer service provided by the 
third parties instructed on his claim, damage to the wall caused by company P, and the 
health issues suffered by Mr B and his family because of having to live in damp conditions in 
their home for a prolonged period of time.
 
Admiral agreed that the service provided for the complaints relating to delay and 
communication were justified. Admiral accepted these issues couldve been better handled. 
In recognition of the impact on Mr B Admiral awarded £500 compensation (later increased to 
£700). Admiral also agreed to pay simple interest of 8% per annum (totalling £118.98) on the 
payment of £5,800 that had been issued in May. This was to compensate Mr B for not 
having access to this money earlier in the claims process. 
In respect of Mr Bs complaint about the amount offered in settlement of the buildings part of 
his claim, Admiral explained this claim was settled in line with the estimate provided. Admiral 
also explained the scoring of the wall was completed for the purposes of moisture 
evaporation. Mr B was informed this would be covered as re-instatement works. In respect of 
Mr Bs complaint about the impact on his health, Admiral requested for Mr B to provide 
evidence, such as a doctors report, to confirm the cause of any issues. This was to 
determine if any issues could reasonably be linked to the living conditions of Mr Bs home. 
Admiral said on receipt of this evidence, theyd further investigate.
The investigator found that the compensation paid, and explanation provided by Admiral for 
the complaints that were not upheld, was fair. The investigator didnt ask Admiral to do 
anything in settlement of Mr Bs complaint. The investigator explained Admirals actions had 
only been considered for the period between the date of the final response letter in February 
2023, to the date of the final response in June 2023.
 
Mr B didnt accept the investigators findings saying (amongst other things) We were 
extremely exhausted, we had to spend the whole night cleaning the place, we were not able 
to rest at all. My daughters had exams, they did not have a stable environment at home to 
study, their studies were affected. My wife has a lot of health issues, diabetes being one of 
them. To summarise, I certainly deserve way more than £10pp per day Kindly compensate 
me £250 per day The amount of time that I [had to] spend in order to communicate with 
Admiral regarding the insurance claim via phone & email is quite enormous, which I cannot 
express with you in words.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, I agree with the investigators outcome on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr 
B but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive 
focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe it has affected what I think is the right outcome.
Ive considered all of Mr Bs complaints from the final response letter. Ive seen that in 
response to the investigators findings, Mr B has primarily referenced being unhappy with the 
level of compensation offered by Admiral for the impact on him, and his family. For 
completeness Ive summarised my response to the other complaints. 
 
Compensation for initial complaint
Mr Bs initial complaint about delays at the start of the claim was considered by this service 
in May 2023. Mr B accepted the investigators findings at the time. Admiral have explained 
the compensation offered in their response provided in June 2023, covered events from the 
date of their previous final response letter provided in February 2023 to June 2023- so didnt 
include anything that happened before February 2023. The reason for this is because events prior to February 2023 had already been dealt with under the February 2023 final response 
letter. Im satisfied this explanation is reasonable, and in line with this services approach.
Settlement of buildings remediation work
 
Mr Bs claim for the remedial work required to the buildings part of his claim was settled in 
line with the estimate of costs provided to Admiral in April 2023. Im satisfied that Admiral 
have settled this part of Mr Bs claim reasonably. I havent seen any evidence of Mr B 
requesting Admiral consider any other buildings related costs. I wont be directing Admiral do 
anything in settlement of this complaint. 
 
Hole in wall
Mr B raised concerns about damage to a wall in his home. Mr B says this damage was 
caused by company P when completing their investigation. Admiral have explained that the 
scoring of the wall was completed for the purposes of moisture evaporation. Mr B has been 
told that this would be covered as re-instatement works. Mr B has been asked to provide a 
quote for repairs, but I cant see that this has been provided. I think Admirals response to 
this issue is fair and reasonable.
  
Lack of updates and delays
Its not disputed that Admiral shouldve done more to progress Mr Bs claim in a timely way. 
Ive seen that Admiral were in receipt of a quote for repairs from Mr Bs own contractor in 
early April 2023. But they didnt update Mr B about the impact on his claim until several 
weeks later. It wasnt until mid-May that Mr B was told that he would receive payment in line 
with the estimate that hed provided. Admiral also accept that there were several occasions 
where Mr B chased Admiral, and he didnt receive a timely response.
   
Admiral accept that the service provided fell short of their usual standards. So the dispute 
now relates to the award of compensation that should be paid in recognition of what went 
wrong, and the impact on Mr B. 
It might be helpful to explain that the payments made to Mr B concern two separate 
compensation payments.
The first payment for £5,800 is Disturbance Allowance. This amount is usually awarded to 
recognise any additional costs incurred. Mr B remained in his home for the duration of the 
claim. Mr B didnt specify any additional costs incurred during this time. So Admiral instead 
agreed to pay a rate of £10 per day for each adult in the family living at the insured property. 
Im satisfied that this amount is industry practice for when a consumer doesnt have 
documentary evidence to demonstrate any reasonable additional expenses theyve incurred. 
Mr B says payment of £250 a day would be a fairer reflection of the upset and inconvenience 
suffered during this time. Ive considered Mr Bs comments. Whilst I am empathetic to the 
difficulties Mr B mustve faced while his claim remained unresolved, I wont be asking 
Admiral to pay more than whats already been paid for the Disturbance Allowance part of Mr 
Bs compensation. The reason for this is because this allowance isnt usually for any kind of 
trouble and inconvenience suffered because of what went wrong with the claim. The 
Disturbance Allowance specifically recognises additional expenses. As Mr B didnt provide 
evidence of additional expenses, Im satisfied the amount paid by Admiral is reasonable. 
Admiral awarded Mr B £700 in recognition of the impact on Mr B because of the delays, lack 
of communication, and poor handling of his claim. Mr B says that £700 compensation for the trouble and upset experienced from February to June 2023, doesnt go far enough in 
addressing the impact on his health and well-being over a prolonged period of time.
Having considered whats happened, and the impact on Mr B, Im satisfied £700 
compensation is reasonable, and broadly in line with what this service would direct in the 
circumstances. This amount takes into consideration the undue delays in updating Mr B 
about next steps for his claim. It also accounts for the weeks of waiting for remedial work to 
begin. Because of these delays, Mr B was forced to continually raise issues with Admiral 
about the impact on his health and well-being. Mr B was also concerned for his family, as a 
result of having to stay in mouldy, damp conditions, over a prolonged period of time. 
Ive carefully considered Mr Bs comments about the health issues suffered by Mrs B 
because of the unsuitable living conditions that they had to deal with over several months 
while waiting for their claim to be resolved. Mr B has explained how Mrs Bs underlying 
health conditions were made worse as a result of the stress caused by the poor handling of 
their claim. Admiral have informed Mr B that theyd be willing to consider the impact on Mr 
Bs and Mrs Bs health following evidence of a medical report linking any health issues with 
the state of Mr Bs home while the claim remained on-going. I think Admirals response here 
is reasonable. 
I dont doubt the upset and stress experienced by Mrs B and Mr B while waiting for 
settlement of their claim. The compensation of £700 already paid recognises the poor 
service provided by Admiral, and impact on Mr B, based on the additional chasing he had to 
do, and the disappointment in not experiencing timely progression of his claim. In 
considering Admirals actions overall, Ive also considered the other part of compensation Mr 
B has received, in the form of the Disturbance Allowance payment. Overall I think Admirals 
actions to put things right have been reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained I wont be asking Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do 
anything more in settlement of Mr Bs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman