DRN-4119144
The complaint
Miss S complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  (Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted her a 
conditional sale agreement (agreement) she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In May 2019 Miss S acquired a used car costing £6,204 financed by an agreement from 
Moneybarn. 
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Miss S undertook to make 
59 monthly repayments of £203.39. The total repayable under the agreement was 
£12,000.01 at an APR of 34.9%.
 
Miss S says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it 
had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said it 
had performed several different checks before agreeing to lend which included:
a full credit search (with a credit reference agency) which provided details of Miss S 
current borrowing levels and repayment history (including any arrears and defaults)
an independent check of Miss S declared net monthly income of £2,200 (with a 
credit reference agency)
the use of statistical data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) to estimate 
Miss S level of non-discretionary expenditure (including housing, council tax utilities 
and vehicle costs)
the use of information (from a credit reference agency) to assess Miss S ongoing 
monthly borrowing commitments
Moneybarn said that from the above checks it was able to establish:
Miss Ss existing borrowing was within its lending criteria
Miss S had one or more defaults, but the latest of these was more than six months 
old
payments were being made by Miss S towards all defaults registered against her
Miss S had no county court judgements registered against her
Miss S hadnt been declared insolvent or bankrupt
Miss Ss net monthly income was £2,200 as declared by her
Miss Ss non-discretionary expenditure had been estimated at £1,005.25
Miss Ss current borrowing commitments were £315 a month
Miss S had a disposable income of £822.98 being £2,200 less £1,005.25 less £315 
less £56.77 (an additional allowance to allow for variations in any estimates made)
its lending, at a monthly cost of £203.39, equated to 24.7% of Miss S calculated net 
disposable income
Moneybarn also pointed out that Miss S signed to say that her net monthly income was no 
less than £2,200 and her non-discretionary expenditure was no more than £1,005.25.
One of our investigators looked into Miss S complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. 
He said that in all the circumstances Moneybarn could and should have undertaken further 
checks about Miss S financial position and personal circumstances before it agreed to lend. 
But he wasnt persuaded, based on what Miss S had provided our service about her financial 
position and personal circumstances in, and immediately prior, to May 2019 that further (and 
proportionate) checks by Moneybarn would have, or should have, caused it not to lend.
Miss S didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First I would like to make it clear that Im only considering in this decision Miss S complaint 
that Moneybarn irresponsibly granted her an agreement she couldnt afford to repay, the 
complaint raised with Moneybarn by a third party on Miss S behalf in January 2023 and 
addressed by Moneybarn in its final response letter dated February 2023. I say this because 
it appears that Miss S might also have concerns about how Moneybarn managed and 
administered her borrowing after May 2019.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
I agree with the investigator that in the particular circumstances of this case Moneybarn 
didnt carry out proportionate checks before it agreed to lend to Miss S. But I also find myself 
agreeing with him that had Moneybarn carried out further (and proportionate) checks it 
wouldnt have, nor should it have, concluded that it shouldnt lend to Miss S.
Miss S has provided our service with bank statements (for two accounts) for the three month 
period prior to Moneybarn agreeing to lend. And for the avoidance of doubt, I can confirm 
that Im satisfied (unlike the investigator) that these statements cover the entire three month 
period prior to Moneybarn agreeing to lend. In other words, there are no missing statements. 
Now its not my role to say what further (and proportionate) checks Moneybarn should have 
undertaken. But had it asked Miss S for bank statements covering the three month period 
prior to mid-May 2019 and assuming Miss S would have supplied Moneybarn with exactly 
what she has provided our service its my understanding that Moneybarn would have 
discovered that:
Miss S received external credits (such as a salary) of approximately £2,200 a month
Miss S made a number of internal account transfers each month, including (but not 
restricted to) transfers between the two accounts she has provided our service 
statements for
Miss S was making a number of faster payments each month but to where, or to 
whom, wasnt clear*
Miss S had very little non-discretionary expenditure (including housing, council tax 
utilities and vehicle costs) and certainly not as much as the ONS estimate it relied on 
when agreeing to lend to her
Miss Ss exiting borrowing commitments (such as loans and credit cards) didnt 
exceed £315 a month 
account 1 was never more than £350 overdrawnaccount 2 was never overdrawn
* I would not have expected Moneybarn to have made any further enquiries into what these payments might (or might not) 
relate to
And this discovery wouldnt have caused it, nor should it have caused it, to decide not to 
lend to Miss S.
For the sake of completeness, I would add that Ive reviewed a copy of Miss S credit file 
(dated March 2023). Now I accept this wont show (for obvious reasons and for reasons Im 
satisfied I dont need to explain in this decision) exactly what Moneybarns credit check 
would have found in May 2019. But Ive seen nothing in Miss S credit report (dated 
March 2023) that would cause me to question what Moneybarn says its credit check found in 
May 2019.
Finally, I would like to add that I dont dispute that Miss H might have found herself in 
financial difficulties shortly after taking out her agreement with Moneybarn, but this in itself 
isnt sufficient for me to uphold her complaint.
In summary I can confirm (based on what both parties have said and submitted) that Im 
satisfied that Moneybarn did nothing wrong when it took the decision to lend to Miss S in 
May 2019.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman