DRN-3291375
The complaint
Mr R says Doug Wade Insurance Consultant (DW) mis-sold him a Free Standing Additional 
Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) pension plan.
Mr R is represented by Rightside Financial Services Ltd (RFS)
What happened
DW provided Mr R with advice around 1994. At the time he was 33 years old. He was a dock 
worker having joined his then employer 10 months earlier. Its recorded he earned around 
£20,000 a year. He was a member of an occupational pension scheme (OPS), to which he 
contributed 5% of his pensionable earnings.
DW advised Mr R to take out a FSAVC plan with Scottish Widows. He decided to make net 
contributions of £40 a month. Since his contributions were made after tax he also qualified 
for tax relief to be added to his fund. His plan commenced on 14 July 1994. It included 
provision for his annual gross contributions to rise automatically by 5% a year. His plan was 
due to run until he was 63.
The adviser who had given Mr R the recommendation to buy an FSAVC plan left DW in 
1995 and took up a role with firm B. Mr Rs pension provider sent DW a letter saying it had 
been instructed by Mr R to cease acting on his behalf. Servicing agency for his plan passed 
to firm B from April that year. There were further changes. From June 1996 firm C was 
appointed as the servicing agent. And, firm D took on the role between January 1997 and 
May 2001.
All these changes appear to relate to the movements of the original adviser between firms, 
where several of his client accounts followed him between the businesses he worked for. 
From May 2001 Mr Rs FSAVC plan didnt have a firm attached as servicing agent. He 
stopped making contributions to his plan in 2006. And in 2014, using the services of firm E, 
he transferred his funds to a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
RFS complained to DW in September 2019 about what had happened to Mr R in 1994. It 
summarised his case in the following terms:
[Mr R] would have paid for past added years at the outset rather than in to an FSAVC plan 
as invaluable benefits were lost as a result of not effecting an in-house arrangement. There 
is no evidence provided by [DW] to show he was given time to investigate in house 
arrangements through his employer. It would have also been more beneficial for [Mr R] to 
put the extra contribution into his existing pension plan with [his employer]. [He should have 
been] made aware of this alternative option by the [DW] adviser at the point of sale, as it 
was his duty to point out under FIMBRA and LAUTRO rules.
DW provided its final response to Mr R in December 2019. It said that as its adviser had 
moved to firm B in 1995 together with the servicing agreement for his FSAVC plan, it was 
that businesss responsibility to have ensured the ongoing suitability of the plan. It later told 
this Service it thought the initial advice had been suitable. And it argued that in any event, 
Mr R had brought his complaint too late for this Service to consider it.
The Investigator thought Mr R had brought his complaint in time. And he went on to 
uphold the merits of his case. DW disagreed with both conclusions. So, his case was 
passed to me to review. I issued my provisional decision in January. I invited both parties 
to provide further information and evidence, which both have done. Where this was 
material to my consideration, Ive addressed matters in this final decision.
Jurisdiction
Our service was set up by Parliament under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA). Its important to make clear that as a public body we dont have a general, at 
large, power to investigate any complaint. We can only investigate what FSMA and the 
rules made under it say we can  this sets the boundaries of our scheme. And we have no 
legal power to investigate complaints that are beyond our jurisdiction.
FSMA gives the FCA the power to say what complaints we can and cant consider. The 
FCA has set these out in the Dispute Resolution chapter of the FCA Handbook (also 
known as DISP or the DISP rules).
If a business doesnt consent, this Service cant consider a complaint which isnt 
made within specified time limits. Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service:
2. More than:
a. six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
b. three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or 
ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint; unless:
3. In the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits 
in DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional 
circumstances.
Mr R is worried hes lost out because of the advice he received from DW to set-up an 
FSAVC in 1994. He thinks he shouldve been told about options offered by his employer 
for buying additional pension benefits.
Taking the six-year rule first, a complaint is out of time if its referred to our Service more 
than six years after the event complained about. Thats unless the complaint was referred to 
the respondent business within that period and the complainant has a written 
acknowledgement or other record of the complaint having been received.
Mr Rs complaint was raised with DW in September 2019. It issued a final response to him in 
December that year. As the advice complained about happened in 1994, his case is out of 
time on the six-year limb of the test.
Turning to the three-year test. When considering if Mr R had a cause for complaint, that 
means whether he was aware of, or ought reasonably to have become aware, there was a 
problem; that he had suffered or may have suffered a loss; and that someone was 
responsible for this problem (and who that was).I need to decide when Mr R became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, 
that he had a cause to complain. And having established that date, determine whether he 
brought his complaint within three years of it.
In making its case to time bar Mr Rs complaint, DW said:
with regard to the 3 year rule, we would argue that [Mr R] was aware of the option of an 
AVC through his employers scheme from point of sale onwards. We would also argue that 
these new advising firms in 1995, 1996, 1997 and 2014 would have had the correct systems 
and controls in place to assess the ongoing suitability of the contract to ensure that the 
product remained in their clients best interests. So at the very latest, this would have been 
when [Mr R] received independent financial advice from [firm E] in 2014.
DW has been unable to provide a business file. Although the sale of the policy happened 
a long time ago, this is unusual. I say this because in my experience firms retain 
documents relating to long-term transactions such as pensions indefinitely. Its clearly in 
their interests to do so.
I cant see that at the point of sale Mr R was alerted to the options available to him for 
buying increased pension benefits through his employer. I cant see he was provided with a 
comparison. As such theres no reason to believe he was alerted to a potential problem 
with the original advice at the time. Indeed, we know he proceeded with the transaction and 
I dont think he wouldve done if he thought there was an issue.
Ive also thought carefully about whether the transfer of servicing agency for his plan in 
1995, 1996 and 1997 meant that Mr R ought reasonably to have been aware that there 
was a problem with his FSAVC plan. 
RFS told us:
In relation to Mr R becoming aware at the time ongoing servicing arrangements were 
changed. Mr R understood that his financial adviser was the same throughout. A change in 
the advisers trading name would not have alerted him that he had received unsuitable 
advice.
Mr R says he didnt receive any advice from firms B, C and D during the relevant period. No 
evidence has been produced to show he did. And Im mindful that the common factor at 
each firm appears to have been the first adviser. As he provided the original advice, its 
unlikely he wouldve re-examined the transaction. 
So theres no reason for me to find that Mr R ought to have been aware of cause for 
complaint at the point when his adviser firm changed. 
Mr R has said he doesnt know why his contributions hadnt continued to escalate by 5% 
each year between 1998-2002 and he doesnt recall being contacted about this. I dont find 
this surprising as payments were routine and previous increases wouldve been relatively 
minor.
Mr R has confirmed he stopped making FSAVC contributions in 2006 because he didnt 
think they were worth continuing with given his circumstances at the time  again I find this 
plausible. And I dont think his decision puts him on the road to discovery for the purposes of 
considering the jurisdiction of his case.
Ive considered the switch of Mr Rs FSAVC funds into a SIPP arrangement in 2014. RFS 
has confirmed that this transaction was focussed on the consolidation of his various pension 
plans into a single pot, as he looked towards taking benefits. Given the framing of the advice he sought, I cant see why the firm involved wouldve reviewed all the advice hed previously 
received from other businesses in respect of his pension plans.
DW hasnt done enough to demonstrate that the changing of the servicing arrangements for 
Mr Rs FSAVC, or his switch to a SIPP in 2014 were events that ought to have given him 
cause to complain about its original advice in 1994.
RFS said that Mr R wanted this Service to deal directly with it on his behalf. When the 
Investigator asked about when he became aware of cause for complaint it told us this had 
happened in 2019 when he sought confirmation from a specialist adviser. I asked for more 
information about the circumstances surrounding why he brought his case when he did. 
This time we were provided with a fuller explanation. RFS told us:
In 2019 [Mr R] engaged EMCAS to review his circumstances in relation to earlier mortgage 
and investment advice he had received. When reviewing the documentation and in 
discussion with [Mr R], Right-Side adviser [Mr X] (himself a DB pension trustee) identified 
that [Mr R] may have been subject to unnecessary and unsuitable FSAVC pension advice 
and brought this to [Mr Rs] attention. [Mr R] was not aware until this point that in house 
alternatives were likely more beneficial. Had this been disclosed he would have elected to go 
the in house route as he had no plans to change employer. With Mr Rs permission [Mr X] 
sought copies of the point of sale and disclosure documents from his pension provider and 
then Adviser.
Based on the information available to me, I think Mr R became aware in 2019 when he 
engaged the services of EMCAS in relation to other financial matters, that there might be a 
problem with the advice he received in 1994 about his FSAVC policy. As he made his 
complaint at the end of 2019, his case is in time.
Ive concluded this Service can consider Mr Rs complaint and Ill now consider the merits of 
his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The bulk of the contemporaneous documentation we have been provided has come from 
the pension provider. Both parties have also provided lengthy and conflicting testimony and 
both have cast doubt on the veracity of elements of each other submissions.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial 
businesses and their customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive 
concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Rs OPS provider has helpfully confirmed what options wouldve been available to him 
in 1994 to purchase additional pension benefits. It said:
I can advise that [Mr Rs OPS] was a defined benefits scheme. Active members had the 
option of paying additional voluntary contributions (AVCs) to the Plan. Any AVCs were invested in one of two investment linked arrangements established with Standard Life or 
Legal & General. It was not possible to purchase added years in the Plan.
This information clarifies the scope of any potential problem. For example, although Mr Rs 
complaint indicated he thought hed lost the opportunity to purchase additional years in his 
scheme  its now clear that wasnt a possibility.
Next Ive thought about the rules and regulations which DW wouldve been obliged to follow 
at the time it gave Mr R advice in 1994. Its confirmed it was providing advice as an 
independent financial adviser (IFA). The requirements on such firms were clear.
It wouldve been required to follow the Financial Intermediaries, Managers and Brokers 
Regulatory Association (FIMBRA) rules. In 1988, FIMBRA said that an adviser should:
- Not make a recommendation unless it believed, having carried out reasonable care 
in forming its belief, that no transaction in any other such investment (of which it 
ought reasonably to be aware) would be likely to secure the objectives of the 
consumer more advantageously.
- Take reasonable care to include in any recommendation to a person, other than a 
professional investor, sufficient information to provide that person with an adequate 
and reasonable basis for deciding whether to accept the recommendation.
So, DW was required to have conducted its business taking into account and acting on all 
these requirements when advising Mr R about the FSAVC. It needed to explicitly compare 
what the in-house options were and what the FSAVC had to offer. It shouldve made a 
recommendation that was in his best interests.
This approach was important. We know that more often than not AVCs were typically a 
better option for an employee than an FSAVC. Thats because these plans often enjoyed 
lower charges and administration costs as theyd been arranged through an employer. Its 
also the case that some employers matched or subsidised AVC contributions. These 
advantages wouldve meant employees wouldve been better off at retirement.
There were occasions when an FASVC couldve been more suitable. For example, 
where the AVC offered by the employer didnt provide for equity linked investments, or 
particular funds of interest to the consumer.
DW has asserted that the advice it provided in 1994 was suitable. In support of its case it 
points to Mr Rs payslip which has, amongst headings for deductions, a line for AVCs. It 
says this shows he must have been aware of the option. It says his application to the 
FSAVC provider details information about his employer and OPS membership. It says this 
shows a conversation about options mustve happened. I find DWs arguments weak.
The problem for DW is that theres no evidence to indicate it gave suitable advice to Mr R in 
1994. It hasnt been able to produce any telling records to back up its assertion on 
suitability. Theres nothing to demonstrate he was told his employers in-house options 
were better; or of a direct comparison between the FSAVC and what was possible via his 
employer; or that it recommended he shouldnt take out an FSAVC plan. Theres nothing to 
suggest he had specific investment requirements, which meant and FSAVC was 
appropriate.
I think its more likely than not, had DW advised Mr R to make any additional contributions 
to his pension via his employers AVC, hed have accepted that recommendation. I say this 
because its unusual for a lay person to seek advice from a professional and then to take a 
different course of action.So, based on the information available to me, I think the advice DW gave Mr R in 1994 was 
unsuitable.
Next, Ive considered the extent of DWs responsibility and approach to any redress.
As Ive already set out, the adviser who gave Mr R the recommendation to buy an FSAVC 
plan left DW in 1995 and took up a role with firm B. Ive seen a letter from Scottish Widows 
to DW dated 11 April of that year. It says:
I have been instructed by the above client [Mr R] that you are no longer to act on their 
behalf in respect of this policy. To comply with their request I have removed your agency 
from the policy record.
Servicing agency for his FSAVC plan passed to firm B from April 1995. There were further 
changes. From June 1996 firm C was appointed as the servicing agent. And, firm D took on 
the role between January 1997 and May 2001.
DW has told this Service it didnt receive any commission from the sale of Mr Rs plan from 
the point agency was transferred in 1995. This seems plausible, given we know the 
servicing arrangements followed the original adviser as he changed firms.
Ive no reason to doubt Mr R when he says he didnt know other firms were involved with 
looking after his plan. But it seems unlikely these changes couldve been effected without 
his endorsement. I dont know what information his adviser gave him about the changes or 
how significant these wouldve seemed at the time. And to this I must factor in the passage 
of a significant amount of time  memories can and do fade.
On balance, I place weight on the contemporaneous letters Ive seen from the provider of 
Mr Rs FSAVC, which indicate the changes in the servicing agency for his plan were 
properly authorised. DW were responsible for the original advice. But its also clear that 
firms B, C and D took on the servicing arrangements for his plan in subsequent years and, 
it seems, likely received commission payments related to the FSAVC.
The then Financial Services Authority (FSA) model guidance from May 2000, indicates an 
approach here which I think is fair. In the section on redress, under Section 8.2 it says:
8.2.1 Where a firm concludes that it may be jointly liable along with one or more other firms 
for the investors loss then the firm that gave the first advice should review the whole period 
(including the period after the other firm(s) became involved) and then seek to obtain 
redress from the other firm(s).
8.2.2 Where a firm believes that the causal link between the advice it gave and any 
ongoing loss has been broken, perhaps because a second firm gave advice at the same 
time as a change of employment, then the first firm need only consider the period up to the 
second advice.
DW argues that if the case is upheld, then its liability should end when the agency for his 
plan transferred. It says 8.2.2 is the appropriate route. I understand the argument it makes.
But in the absence of evidence the causal link between its initial advice and Mr Rs ongoing 
loss has been broken, I conclude that its reasonable to apply the provisions of 8.2.1. This 
still provides it with the opportunity to seek compensation from those other firms involved 
where it believes they should contribute to the redress it has to pay due to their acts and 
omissions in this case.Finally, RFS has asserted that DW shouldve conducted a review of its sale of Mr Rs 
FSAVC plan following the FCA review in this area in 2000. Following concerns about mis- 
selling, the regulator did require firms to carry out a review of some plans sold between 29 
April 1988 and 15 August 1999. The review was mostly concluded by 2004.
The main aim was to review the FSAVC plans of consumers who might have lost matching 
contributions or subsidies that the employer would have paid, had AVCs been used instead. 
Businesses were required to contact those consumers proactively and invite them to have a 
review if their employers or schemes appeared on the Annex A Update FSAVC document.
Neither Mr Rs employer nor OPS scheme appears on this list. So, I cant see DW failed to 
comply with the regulators requirements here. Mr R couldve requested a review  but as 
we know, he says he didnt become aware of any cause for complaint until 2019.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. I require Doug Wade Insurance Consultant to put matters 
right.
Mr R has confirmed he still worked for the same employer as he did in 1994. And that he 
hasnt taken any pension benefits at this time. DW may ask Mr R for evidence of these and 
any other matters that have a bearing on its redress calculations.
DW should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, with the amendment below to take into account that data for the CAPS 
mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index 
is used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer 
matching contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So, where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, DW should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be 
tax- free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the 
loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr R 
within 90 days of the date DW receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision.Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes DW to pay Mr R this compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint, and I require Doug 
Wade Insurance Consultant to put things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman