DRN-2024136
The complaint
Mr B complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited refused to pay for the medical costs he 
claimed for his daughter under a private medical insurance policy for a period of time.
What happened
Mr B holds a private medical insurance with AXA, and the policy also covers his daughter. Ill 
refer to her as D.
D was referred to a specialist medical practitioner by a GP in March 2019, and AXA agreed 
to pay for the appointment. Her symptoms included OCD and motor tics, and Ds parents 
were wondering if she had PANDAS (Paediatric Autoimmune Neuropsychiatric Disorders 
Associated with Streptococcal Infections). The practitioner didnt confirm a diagnosis but 
recommended observing D for some time.
Mr B got in touch with AXA again in June 2019 as he wanted D to see another specialist, 
and AXA agreed to pay for the appointment. D had an appointment with another practitioner 
in August 2019.
In October 2019, the practitioner recommended some blood tests for D, as well as a follow 
up appointment. The diagnosis in the medical report said [i]nvestigation for immune 
mediated component to neurobehavioural problems (tics and OCD).
AXA refused to pay for the tests or follow up appointment. It said this was because Ds 
symptoms were behavioural, and these were excluded under the learning and 
developmental disorders section of the policy.
Mr B disputed AXAs position. He said the medical reports stated that there was evidence of 
an immune mediated basis to the symptoms, probably triggered by streptococcus. He said 
the tests were also to exclude immunodeficiency, autoimmune disease and other underlying 
neurological disorders.
AXA issued its first final response to Mr Bs complaint in November 2019. It said that it 
doesnt cover learning and developmental disorders. So, as it considered Ds symptoms to 
be neuropsychiatric, the treatment would be for a behavioural problem. AXA also said the 
policy doesnt cover tests that are for screening for a medical condition.
Mr B and AXA continued to correspond about AXAs interpretation of the symptoms until 
AXA issued a second final response in March 2020.
AXA now accepted that Ds immunologist indicated that there may be an underlying 
neurological disorder causing the symptoms. And because in this situation an existence of 
tics is a symptom, AXA agreed that it wouldve been appropriate to cover the cost of the 
tests to establish their cause.
AXA said it would reimburse any invoices Mr B paid that wouldve been eligible at the time. 
AXA also offered £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. But Mr B 
wasnt happy with this, as he didnt think the compensation was enough. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She agreed that AXA hadnt done 
everything right when it said it wouldnt pay for further medical costs. But she also thought 
that AXAs offer to reimburse any invoices Mr B had paid for, and the compensation it had 
offered, was a fair and reasonable outcome.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As AXA has already accepted it shouldnt have declined Mr Bs claim in October 2019, the 
only thing left for me to decide is if what its done to put this right is fair and reasonable.
I can see that the practitioner recommended blood tests in October 2019, and a follow up 
appointment. It doesnt look like these tests were carried out. But Ive seen a further report 
from the practitioner in December 2019 which confirms the diagnosis as PANDAS. And it 
says Ds condition had already improved significantly as a result of the use of antibiotics they 
prescribed following the initial consultation (which took place in August 2019).
AXA has said that its only received an invoice for one appointment directly from the 
practitioner, which it paid for. As Mr B didnt pay for this appointment himself, I dont require 
AXA to pay any interest on this amount. 
Mr B has said they wouldve sought more treatment for D, had AXA agreed to cover it.
I agree that AXA took an unreasonably long time to confirm that the claim made in 
October 2019 was eligible. But when considering what compensation is fair and reasonable, 
I need to look at the impact the delay had.
The medical report in December 2019 says Ds condition had improved significantly since 
the antibiotics prescribed in August 2019. So, I havent seen enough to say that AXAs 
actions have resulted in D being deprived from treatment to her condition. Additionally, this 
report doesnt say that further blood tests were still necessary.
Overall, I think what AXA has done to put things right is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think the offer AXA has made is fair and reasonable.
So, its my decision that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited should pay Mr B £100 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused, if it hasnt already done so. It should also cover any other 
invoices it receives that it now considers eligible. If these have already been paid by Mr B, I 
would expect it to reimburse him directly and add interest at the rate of 8% simple from the 
date the invoice/s were paid to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman