DRN-3369921
The complaint
Mr C, through a representative, says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) trading as Everyday 
Loans lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr C took out an 18-month instalment loan for £2,000 from ELL on 14 November 2018. The 
monthly repayments were £248.21 and the total repayable was £4,467.78. I understand 
there is an outstanding balance.
Mr C says he wasnt given enough information about the loan so didnt know the true costs. 
He had to take out another loan to consolidate his debts after getting this one and his 
personal circumstances were not properly considered.
Our adjudicator said Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. She found the lenders checks were 
proportionate but that it did not make a fair lending decision based on the information it 
gathered.
ELL disagreed. It said, in summary, it asked Mr C about the recent adverse information on 
his credit report; his credit card balance was low and within its limit; it was clear which 
payday loans Mr C was going to settle and its loan increased Mr Cs monthly disposable 
income significantly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when ELL lent to Mr C required it to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr C. In
other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr C.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend
to Mr C. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Cs
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did ELL make a fair lending decision?
did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see ELL asked for some information from Mr C before it approved the loan. It asked for
details of his income and checked this on a recent payslip and bank statements. It estimated 
his living costs using national statistics. It also checked Mr Cs credit file to understand his 
credit history and existing monthly credit commitments. It added in the additional credit 
commitments it could see from the relevant transactions on Mr Cs bank statements. And 
finally it asked about the purpose of the loan which was debt consolidation. From these 
checks combined ELL concluded Mr C would have monthly disposable income of around 
£400 after repaying his outstanding payday loans and making this loan repayment, and so 
could afford to take on the loan.
I think these checks were proportionate, but I am not satisfied ELL responded appropriately 
to the information it gathered.
I think there were indications of financial instability on Mr Cs credit check. ELL says it asked 
about the recent adverse data and Mr C explained it was triggered by an operation in April 
followed by some time out of the UK to see a family member who was unwell. But I am not 
wholly persuaded this response adequately explains everything ELL could see from its credit 
check. 
Mr C had a County Court Judgment (CCJ) registered against him; two accounts that had 
defaulted many years ago but that had balances he was still repaying; and an active account 
that had just fallen into arrears. In addition the check showed around 20 loans and home 
credit accounts that had been settled, in addition to a number that were still active. I think 
this ought to have concerned ELL that Mr Cs problem managing his money were not just 
short-term. And that he had been reliant on high-cost credit to make ends meet for some 
time and was most likely in a harmful cycle of borrowing to repay. I think by agreeing to lend 
to Mr C ELL was prolonging this use of high-cost credit which would most likely cause 
adverse financial consequences. And it needed to consider this, not just the monthly pounds 
and pence affordability, to meet its regulatory commitments. It follows I think ELL was wrong to give the loan to Mr C.
Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I dont find that it did. Mr C says he wasnt given enough information about the loan, 
particularly the costs. But the Fixed Sum Loan Agreement Mr C signed clearly set out the 
terms of the loan, including the interest payable and the total amount payable. So I think he 
would have known what he was agreeing to pay. However, as I am upholding Mr Cs 
complaint the interest and charges will anyway be refunded.  
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr C to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to him.
ELL should:
Refund all the interest and charges Mr C paid, so add up the total amount repaid and 
deduct that sum from the capital amount borrowed.
If this results in him having effectively made over payments then ELL should refund
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If there is any capital balance outstanding ELL must try to agree an affordable
payment plan with Mr C.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mr C a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Cs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) trading as Everyday 
Loans must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman