DRN-3420686
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with how PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA dealt with a dispute she raised 
under its buyer protection policy.
What happened
On 4 December 2021 Mrs G has explained she purchased a washing machine and a 
dishwasher from an online retailer. And, paid for the items using PayPal credit.
Shes explained that delivery of the items was arranged, and the delivery went ahead. 
However, although the washing machine was delivered in the condition expected, the 
delivery driver dropped the dishwasher when taking it out of the delivery van and caused 
damage to it.
Mrs G said arrangements were made for this damaged dishwasher to be collected, and a 
replacement delivered. But Mrs G has explained that the second dishwasher was also 
damaged. She said when it was unpackaged, it was clear that one of the dishwashers side 
panels was protruding, and there were no clips in place to keep it where it should be. 
Mrs G said at this point the retailer wouldnt do anything to resolve the problem with the 
dishwasher. Rather, it offered her £20 compensation for her experience. However, this 
wasnt what Ms G wanted to resolve the problem  she wanted to return the damaged 
dishwasher, or at least be given a new, unbroken one.
Because the matter wasnt resolved with the retailer, Mrs G made a claim under PayPals 
buyer protection policy. She noted the dishwasher was significantly not as described.
On 10 February 2022, PayPal responded to Mrs Gs claim, and said that in order to get a full 
refund she would need to return the dishwasher to the retailer. So, it asked Mrs G to do this, 
and provide it with the tracking information for the return, before 20 February 2022. Mrs G 
didnt do this, so the claim was closed in the retailers favour. Mrs G was unhappy with this, 
so raised a complaint.
Mrs G said the reason she didnt return the item was because the shipping cost for the 
return, would cost her over £150  and she wasnt able to afford this. And, she highlighted 
that the fact the dishwasher needed to be returned was no fault of her own.
PayPal said it had acted fairly. It said it had acted in line with the user agreement Mrs G had 
signed up to. It said that the terms included the requirement for Mrs G to provide PayPal with 
information it asked for, and to return items to the seller, at her own expense. But Mrs G 
hadnt done this. Given this, PayPal maintained its position on the matter. So, Mrs G referred 
her complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and thought it should be upheld. They said that 
the relevant terms and conditions noted that PayPal may ask for the item to be returned to 
the retailer at the buyers cost. But, didnt require this to be done in every case. In Mrs Gs 
case, the investigator said it didnt seem fair and reasonable to require Mrs G to return the 
dishwasher  given the high cost of the return, and it wasnt a firm requirement under the 
terms.
Our investigator said photos provided by Mrs G clearly showed the dishwasher was 
damaged. And she had tried to sort the problem with the retailer in the first instance. Given 
this, our investigator recommended that PayPal refund Mrs G for the cost of the dishwasher. 
PayPal didnt agree. It maintained that it had acted in line with the user agreement in place. 
It also said that under its buyer protection policy that to be eligible for protection Mrs G must 
not have received a recovery or agreed to an alternative resolution related to the purchase, 
from another source. 
Because PayPal didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Mrs G feels PayPal has acted unfairly in declining the dispute she raised. So, Ive thought 
carefully about this. The starting point being the terms of the user agreement between 
PayPal and Mrs G. This being because it is the basis of the contract between the two 
parties.
On looking at the user agreement, I can see that PayPal offers the opportunity to raise a 
dispute in a number of different situations  including where an item purchased is received 
but is significantly not as described. And this is what Mrs G did here. 
The user agreement gives some information for disputes raised in this area. It provides a 
number of reasons why an item might be significantly not as described. These reasons 
include the item being materially different to the sellers description of it, the item arriving 
damaged or missing major parts of features.
Mrs G has explained that the dishwasher she has ultimately received is damaged. The panel 
on the side of it protruding, with clips that are on the other side of the dishwasher being 
missing on this side. And she has provided photos, which illustrates damage to the item. So, 
Im satisfied Mrs G did the right thing in raising the dispute under this category.
Im aware PayPal accepted the claim the item was significantly not as described  
providing that Mrs G return the dishwasher to the retailer and provide the tracking 
information for the return. So, it was willing to provide the refund  if a return was completed.
When it didnt receive this information, PayPal declined the claim. So, Ive thought about 
whether that was fair, and in line with the user agreement in place. And I dont think it was.
PayPal has pointed to the user agreement saying Mrs G would need to return the item and 
was responsible for those shipping costs. But reading the terms, the following is actually 
said:
Step 4: Comply with PayPals shipping requests in a timely manner, if youre filing a 
Significantly Not as Described claim. PayPal may require you, at your expense, to ship the 
item back to the seller, to PayPal or to a third party (which will be specified by PayPal) and to 
provide proof of delivery.Given the above, Im aware the term says PayPal may require this action. The word may is 
important here. This doesnt say it is required in every claim  but it might be. It is at 
PayPals discretion, and it suggests PayPal doesnt need to do this in every claim. So, Im 
satisfied the above shows PayPal has some flexibility around this.
Ive thought about whether it would have been fair for PayPal to use this flexibility in Mrs Gs 
case. And I think it would have been. 
I say this because, for Mrs G to return the dishwasher to the retailer, it would have meant her 
incurring a significant cost, that wasnt a strict requirement in the terms. Mrs G has provided 
a screenshot of a quote for collecting and returning the item  which was just above £155. 
Ive also run a quote for this, and based on Mrs Gs location, and the location of the online 
retailer, this came out at a similar cost. 
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to expect Mrs G to pay this amount to return the 
item, given the flexibility PayPal could use, the lack of firm requirement in the terms, and the 
fact the return cost would be around half of the total refund Mrs G would be due to receive 
back. Given the above, I dont think PayPal acted fairly in declining Mrs Gs claim, when she 
didnt return the dishwasher.
PayPal have mentioned that Mrs G is required to provide documents it asks for  to be 
eligible to claim under buyer protection. But, given the user agreements only says it may 
require the return of the item and proof of delivery, Im satisfied the lack of return or return 
documents doesnt make Mrs G ineligible here.
PayPal has also noted that Mrs G must not have received a recovery or agreed to an 
alternative resolution related to the purchase, from another source. But, she hasnt. When 
the dishwasher was sent to her, and was faulty, she did not receive a recovery  she wasnt 
given a new, fixed one. And she didnt agree to the offer of £20 compensation offered by the 
retailer. So, Mrs G still had an item that was significantly not as described. Given this, Im 
satisfied this point doesnt make a different to the outcome of the complaint.
With the above in mind, Im satisfied that PayPal should refund Mrs G for the entire value of 
the claim for the dishwasher. And as is usual in instances such as this, PayPal should 
provide Mrs G with 8% interest, simple per annum on this amount, from the date she raised 
the dispute to the date of settlement, less any tax properly deductible.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I require PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA to:
Refund Mrs G for the entire value of the claim for the dishwasher
Provide Mrs G with 8% interest, simple per annum on the above refund, from the 
date she raised the buyer protection claim, to the date of settlement, less any tax 
properly deductible. If HM Revenue & Customers requires PayPal (Europe) Sarl et 
Cie SCA to deduct tax from this interest, PayPal should give Mrs G a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted, if they ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman