DRN-4389234
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about Monument Life Insurance Dacs decision to withdraw from the 
income protection market which means his policy has been cancelled.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Monument has made a commercial decision to withdraw from the market. The 
Financial Ombudsman Service cant interfere with that commercial decision.
The decision to withdraw from the market was Monuments. They are the insurer who 
underwrite the risk for Mr Ks policy. Thats why this complaint is directed to 
Monument, not Mr Ks bank.
Mr K has raised concerns about the sale of the policy as well, including potential 
issues with a language barrier and that the policy term relating to cancellation wasnt 
explained to him. Those concerns would first need to be addressed by the bank 
which sold him the policy. So, Mr K needs to complain about the sale of the policy, 
and any other income protection policies he was sold at the relevant time, to the 
bank. 
The policy terms say, We can cancel your insurance by giving you 30 days notice in 
writing. Its a common term that is found in lots of insurance policies, including 
income protection insurance policies. I dont think its an unusual or onerous term. 
And, in any event, I think the policy terms were clear that the policy could be 
cancelled with notice. 
Im satisfied Mr K was given at least 30 days notice that his policy would be 
cancelled. I dont think Monument has acted unreasonably as its acted in line with 
the policy terms. 
Ive considered what Mr K has said about being robbed of his premiums and 
defrauded. But I dont think thats whats happened. Hes paid premiums for the 
benefit of cover. He has benefitted from cover because hes claimed twice on the 
policy. And, whilst he might have paid more in premiums than he claimed, hes still 
had the benefit of the policys protection whilst it was in force.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman