DRN-3251746
The complaint
Miss D complained that TFS Loans Limited lent to her irresponsibly and provided a loan that 
was unaffordable. She mainly said that changes in her circumstances meant she wasnt able 
to get her finances back on track and she went from one loan to another. 
What happened
Miss D took out a loan with TFS as follows:
Date taken Loan paid Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountMonthly  
repayment*
26 March 
201531 March 
202060 £7,500 £279.25
Miss D told TFS that she would use the loan to repay two other outstanding loans totalling 
£3,500 and the balance was to pay tuition fees. 
When Miss D complained to TFS it didnt uphold her complaint and so she brought her 
complaint to us. Our investigator upheld Miss Ds complaint and set out directions indicating 
what he thought TFS should do to put things right. 
TFS disagreed with our investigators view. It mainly said: 
the application was approved based on the information provided by Miss D and a 
number of discussions took place to determine the details were accurate. 
TFS saw nothing to suggest she would be unable to afford the loan and it was 
entitled to rely on what it was told. 
All four active credit accounts were maintained accordingly and there were four 
searches actioned before the completion of this loan.
Two loans that werent shown on Miss Ds credit file were discussed and applied to 
the income and expenditure form, so disposable income calculated is correct.
The loan purpose was to consolidate her debt and reduce the payments required 
which would allow having more disposable funds each month
The checks were proportionate and reasonable to ensure Miss D could sustainably 
repay this loan.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower who is 
already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information TFS relied 
on when it decided to lend this loan to Miss D. 
TFS asked Miss D about her income and expenses. TFS used an online income checker 
and verified that Miss Ds minimum monthly pay was around £1,900. TFS also did its own 
credit checks to understand Miss Ds credit history. Having reviewed all the information it 
had gathered, it calculated that Miss Ds total expenditure would be approximately £1,881 
each month after she had taken out this TFS loan. TFS was satisfied that as these figures 
left Miss D with around £18 surplus income, she shouldve been able to afford the monthly 
repayment on this loan. 
TFS could see its credit check showed that Miss D had just four active accounts with a total 
balance outstanding of £68 on a telecommunications account. And it told us it had taken into 
account two loans mentioned by Miss D during phone conversations carried out as part of 
the loan application process.
Ive taken carefully into account everything TFS has said in response to our investigators 
assessment about the way it assessed affordability. And I've thought carefully about what 
I think a responsible lender should have made of all this information and in particular 
whether it was enough for TFS to make a fair decision to lend.
I think our investigator was right to think that the affordability assessment that TFS carried 
out didnt appear to leave her a sufficient safety margin to allow for any variation in her 
income or expenditure  particularly keeping in mind the 5 years loan term, which I think was 
long enough to go beyond what would be a reasonably foreseeable period to expect 
complete stability in her finances. Having so little surplus income meant that Miss D was at 
real and immediate risk of money problems if her income went down or her expenses 
increased even by only a small margin. 
As things stood, I dont think TFS was reasonably able to be satisfied that Miss D would be 
able to make the loan repayments in a sustainable way over the whole loan term. 
As well as this, as the term and the cost of the loan was high, I think reasonable and 
proportionate checks wouldve involved TFS Loans obtaining a thorough knowledge of Miss D financial circumstances, including evidence. I say this because the monthly cost 
presented a high risk of becoming unaffordable or unsustainable over the term of the loan, 
even leaving aside the fact that her finances were already very stretched. And TFS checks 
needed to be borrower focused, so they needed a thorough understanding of Miss Ds 
financial circumstances to be satisfied she could afford the loan. I cant see that TFS did a 
proportionate check.
I've taken into account that TFS said it allowed for the two loans Miss D had mentioned even 
though these werent shown on her credit report  and it understood that she would be 
sending payments of £3,000 to one and £500 to the other to clear those debts. In fact, 
Miss D had three loans outstanding  as well as the loans she had mentioned to TFS, she 
had taken out another loan with a different lender just a month or so earlier that was going to 
cost her a further £179 for the next £12 months. I believe TFS would likely have found out 
about this third loan if it had carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check before 
providing this loan. And TFS wouldve realised after factoring this into its affordability 
calculations that Miss D was already over reliant on credit and she couldnt afford further 
borrowing from TFS. 
I think TFS would likely have discovered that the actual outstanding balances on the two 
loans she had mentioned were more than the settlement figures recorded on Miss Ds loan 
application  in total around £6,264 as opposed to £3,500. This meant the TFS loan would 
be insufficient to finance her spending plans to repay outstanding loans as well as tuition 
fees. 
Ive carefully considered everything TFS has said in response to our investigators view and, 
in particular, considered whether the fact that part of the loan was intended for debt 
consolidation has any impact on the outcome of this complaint.
I have seen that Miss D appears to have used the TFS loan to repay two loans that were 
costing her £179 and £146 each month plus a third loan. So its fair to say that the TFS loan 
replaced all these payments with a single reduced monthly repayment of £279  so 
potentially improving her financial situation. 
But given that TFS had worked out that her disposable income would be less than £20 each 
month this was unlikely to be enough to substantially improve her financial situation overall 
bearing in mind that it left her still needing to borrow further in order to finance her tuition 
fees. And she was now signed up to an expensive loan that shed be paying for the next five 
years which extended the length of time she faced being indebted. So, even allowing for the 
debt consolidation, this still meant Miss D was likely to have a significant amount of 
outstanding debt, this loan most likely didnt much improve the amount of spare cash Miss D 
would have each month and TFS own affordability assessment suggested finances would 
still be very tight with little or no scope for any variation in income or expenditure. 
So its hard to see how taking out this loan with TFS was going to be enough to enable 
Miss D to make any significant overall improvement in her financial situation. I think, taking 
all this into account, TFS ought reasonably to have been aware that taking this further, costly 
lending was unlikely to help Miss D and more likely to potentially increase her indebtedness 
over the longer term. And it looks like my concerns about this are borne out by a later credit 
report Ive seen showing she continued to take out further borrowing and within less than two 
years her total credit balances had increased to well over £18,000.
So, I am planning on upholding Miss Ds complaint that she should not have been given the 
loan.What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Miss D had nothing further to add.  
Briefly, TFS still felt that its underwriter went through all Miss Ds expenses in detail and TFS 
saw nothing on her credit file to give any reason to doubt what she had told it or any reason 
to think Miss D was not in a good position financially. It said her prospects and income would 
be likely to improve and pointed out that she made every monthly repayment on time.
As I have now heard back from both parties I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my 
review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and for responding so promptly to my provisional decision. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. Id like to assure TFS that I've thought carefully about everything again before 
coming to my final decision. And whilst I have highlighted above only what seem to me to be 
the main points of concern raised, I have read thoroughly and taken into account everything 
TFS has said.  
TFS hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about this case. 
Id already considered all the main points mentioned above when thinking about my 
provisional decision. The fact that Miss D was able to make her monthly repayments to the 
loan on a timely basis doesnt mean she was able to do so on a sustainable basis  as 
I think is borne out by the evidence Ive mentioned showing that her reliance on using credit 
increased following this loan. And whilst I agree that a lender certainly shouldnt presume a 
customer hasnt honestly provided information in support of a loan application, it also has to 
carry out a proportionate check and evaluate all the information gathered in order to make a 
fair lending decision. I explain in my provisional decision why I dont think TFS did that in this 
particular instance. 
I have addressed in my provisional decision all the points which have a bearing on the 
outcome. I appreciate that TFS takes a different view to me. But I still think its fair to uphold 
this complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Our investigator didnt recommend that TFS should pay any additional redress. Miss D 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think TFS acted 
unfairly towards Miss D in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss D to repay the principal amount that she 
borrowed because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has had to pay interest and 
charges on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to her.In line with this Services approach, Miss D shouldnt repay more than the capital amount 
she borrowed. 
If TFS sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take the 
following steps. Otherwise, TFS should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results 
outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Miss D received as a result of having been given 
this loan. The repayments Miss D made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Miss D having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
whilst its fair that Miss Ds credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend this loan. So TFS 
should remove any negative information recorded on Miss Ds credit file regarding 
this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. TFS should give 
Miss D a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Miss D. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman