DRN-1808304
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Saffron Building Society said he didnt meet the criteria for a £90,000 
further advance he wanted to apply for. He says Saffron turned him down not because he 
couldnt afford it, but because Saffron wanted to force him to repay his mortgage.
What happened
Mr R had just under £50,000 outstanding on his mortgage with Saffron and he wanted to 
borrow a further £90,000. Once hed provided his income and expenditure information to 
Saffron it said the application didnt meet its affordability criteria.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed and so its been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr R wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that 
I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered 
it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions 
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what questions should be asked 
and answered. 
Im aware Mr R is suspicious of both Saffron and our service, with accusations of information 
being massaged and doctored. As our team manager explained when dealing with Mr Rs 
complaint about our service, were not the regulator and we only deal with individual disputes 
between financial businesses and their consumers. For that reason, I wont be answering 
Mr Rs allegations of financial impropriety on the part of Saffron, nor will I be commenting on 
the IT issues that meant Mr R wasnt able to access all the emails hed sent and received 
from our service. To reassure him, however, the casefile Ive reviewed is entirely separate 
from that system, so Ive got access to all the correspondence and evidence.
Although Mr R has said the complaint isnt that Saffron wouldnt lend him the £90,000, I think 
thats the best starting point as that was the event that triggered all that followed.
I appreciate Mr R feel Saffron is being unfair. But it isnt my role to tell lenders whether to 
lend to particular consumers. Lenders are able to use their commercial judgement to decide 
how much, if anything, to lend to consumers. My role is to ensure such judgement is applied 
fairly and reasonably; it isnt to substitute my judgement for the lenders.
In this case, Saffron applied its lending policy to Mr Rs proposal. The lending policy is 
commercially sensitive so were unable to disclose it to Mr R, but Ive seen the policy and Im 
satisfied Saffron applied it fairly and reasonably. 
Ive also seen a copy of the affordability calculator that was completed, and I can reassure 
Mr R that the information recorded on it reflects the income and expenditure information he 
provided, and it has been calculated correctly. Whilst it doesnt have Mr Rs name and 
account number on it, Im satisfied it is the affordability calculator completed for him due to 
that income and expenditure information, and the details of his existing mortgage 
sub-account balances and remaining terms. 
In general terms, the main reason Mr R failed the affordability check is that Saffron doesnt 
base it on the current mortgage payments, it instead uses a stressed rate (that is, it uses 
the actual balance and term, but then calculates what the payment would be at a higher 
interest rate). It does this because it has to be sure a mortgage will still be affordable if 
interest rates rise. Unfortunately, that affordability calculation using the stressed rate 
indicated Saffron couldnt be sure Mr R would be able to afford everything if rates increased, 
therefore it wasnt able to lend further funds to Mr R at that time. 
The requirement to carry out an affordability assessment using a stressed rate is set out in 
the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (known as MCOB) 
issued by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
MCOB says, at 11.6.18:
 in taking account of likely future interest rate increases for the purposes of its 
assessment of whether the customer will be able to pay the sums due, a mortgage 
lender must consider the likely future interest rates over a minimum period of five years 
from the expected start of the term of the regulated mortgage contract (or variation), 
unless the interest rate under the regulated mortgage contract is fixed for a period of five 
years or more from that time, or for the duration of the regulated mortgage contract (or 
variation), if less than five years.
Mr R has told us about the financial security of his limited company and the assets owned by 
him personally, by his limited company and as part of his SIPP. Im pleased to hear that 
Mr R  and his company  are financially secure at this difficult time for the economy. 
Unfortunately, those things arent what mattered here as this was a mortgage in Mr Rs 
name (not in the name of his limited company) so what Saffron had to base its decision on is 
Mr Rs personal income and expenditure; it couldnt take into account any assets or the 
financial status of his limited company.
I understand Mr R is upset that hes not been provided with a copy of the calculation, saying
So, with all this undisputable new evidence I have provided, I am asking for all 
information the Society have provided for the case. So that a fair and accurate 
assessment of the situation can be presented to the ombudsman.
I can reassure Mr R that I dont need him to present his assessment of the situation to me, 
as Ive got all the evidence both sides have provided on file and my job is to make my own 
assessment of the situation.Mr R has also said
As for the societys claim that this is sensitive commercial information, I am not a general 
member of the public with nothing to lose by posting information on Facebook for 
example. I own and manage a very respected document and data management business, 
and I have attached my ICO certification for your perusal. With a 25 year faultless data 
breach record, it is almost impossible to imagine any scenario where I would risk this, and 
all my customers by breaking all codes of practice, and indeed the law on a second rate, 
grossly incompetent, provincial building society, is utterly absurd.
But for the purposes of this relationship Mr R was just a general member of the public. 
Saffron wouldnt disclose this information to any of its customers. It would be entirely 
unreasonable if Saffron disclosed it to Mr R just because of his work history but didnt afford 
its other customers  who may be just as worthy and trustworthy  the same privilege. Its 
not just a matter of Mr R disclosing the information to others anyway, it is the fact Mr R 
would be privilege to commercially sensitive information that he could use personally to 
manipulate an application to fit Saffrons criteria. Im not saying Mr R would do that, but the 
fact remains it is a risk, and therefore Saffron did nothing wrong in refusing to provide the 
information to Mr R.
Mr R says the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) has told him Saffron has to provide 
the calculation to him, whereas Saffron says it has contacted the ICO itself and was told it 
didnt have to provide the calculation. Thats not something that is appropriate for this service 
to get involved in, as thats a matter between Mr R, Saffron and the ICO. All Ill say here is 
that my understanding is that this doesnt need to be provided to Mr R and, on that basis, I 
cant release it as it has been provided to us in confidence, which is allowed under our rules.
As I said, Ive reviewed the information input and the calculation. Having done so Im 
satisfied that Saffron applied its lending criteria and carried out the calculation correctly. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Saffron didnt act unreasonably when it turned 
down Mr Rs request for a further advance. 
Mr R has said that Saffron refused him access to a mortgage adviser or someone senior 
when he was told hed failed the affordability check. How Saffron chooses to run its 
mortgage function isnt something we can interfere with. Saffron chooses to use other staff to 
carry out the initial affordability checks, rather than tying up a mortgage adviser with those, 
and that is its right. An affordability check doesnt need a mortgage adviser to complete it, 
and Mr R wasnt entitled to then speak to a mortgage adviser (or someone senior) because 
he was unhappy with that. 
If Mr R had passed the affordability check then he would have been passed to a mortgage 
adviser to complete the next stage of the process, but as his enquiry couldnt be taken 
forward then there was no need for that. As Im satisfied the staff member completed the 
affordability check correctly, then it follows Im also satisfied that Saffron did nothing wrong in 
not allowing Mr R access to a mortgage adviser, or someone senior to confirm that decision.
Finally, Mr R has given us the reasons why he thinks Saffron turned down his request, 
saying:
I believe the reason for this is that part 4 of the mortgage is a 0.45% bank of England 
base rate tracker, with only 7 years of the term left to pay. In view of the fact that most 
interest is paid in the first half of the mortgage and the product is currently running at 
1.20% this makes virtually no interest payable over the period.I believe Saffron are either falsifying the information in their calculation or using the 
wrong one, to extract themselves from a very bad deal.
I think you are completely missing the point I do not require a mortgage, I can get a 
mortgage for £90,000 from anywhere I like, as I have said right from the outset in our 
first conversation the fact that Saffron did not want to lend to me is irrelevant, I am not 
asking you to get me a mortgage with them as I have one, they used that as an excuse 
to drive me out of a mortgage which was going to run at 0.01% for the next 7 years.
 the Society was not running a very strong balance sheet, and meant they were not 
able to take on new mortgages for the period in 2019, which was when my mortgage 
application was submitted. This can be seen in the reduction of their mortgage book 
for the period. This must represent either deception (due to information withheld), or at 
best gross incompetence.
With my application they stood to gain in three areas: -
Firstly, they did not have the funds to provide the loan (as they openly admit in their 
2019 report. However, apparently there were enough resources to pay substantial 
bonuses to the financial director.
Secondly, by forcing me out of the old mortgage they got back £35,000.00 to bolster 
their financial position,
And finally, by removing my mortgage, which was very costly to them at a 0.45 Bank 
of England base rate.
This was used to extract me from a mortgage that was very expensive to them, and 
to get back the £35,000.00 I owed them to bolster their own finances and profit to pay 
for a very big mistake they had made.
Ive considered everything Mr R has said here but theres simply no evidence to support the 
claim that Saffron wilfully chose to reject a further advance enquiry on affordability grounds 
just so Mr R would close his mortgage accounts. The argument is flawed as turning down 
the further advance would not guarantee Mr R would redeem his mortgage as he could have 
raised the funds another way; such as utilising the various assets hes told us about or taking 
a second charge loan. And even if he did redeem his mortgage, the amount he owed of 
under £50,000 would have had very little impact on Saffrons finances, either in terms of 
having that money available, or by charging a higher interest rate in lending it out again.
Three of Mr Rs sub-accounts were due to come to a natural end in 2020, which would have 
just left under £40,000 to run until 2027. At the time Mr R applied for the further advance the 
part of his mortgage that was due to run until 2027 was charged at 1.20%. That rate, in itself, 
wasnt an unusually low rate in the market at the time for someone with the amount of equity 
that Mr R had. For instance, at that time products were available in the general mortgage 
market for new customers offering fixed rates around 1.40% and base rate trackers of 
around 1.30%. And Saffron offered rates as low as 1.74%, for mortgages right up to 80% 
loan to value.
The chargeable rate is much lower now since the pandemic, but that could in no way be 
predicted in 2019 and at that time it seemed more likely that rates would increase (albeit in 
the longer term, rather than immediately).
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Saffron didnt do anything wrong and so I simply 
cant uphold Mr Rs complaint, however much he may want me to.My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman