DRN-3187382
The complaint
Mrs W is seeking to recover £23,795 from Lloyds Bank PLC, for a series of payments she 
made from her bank account as a result of a third-party scam.
What happened
In January 2021, Mrs W joined a social media dating site where she struck up a relationship 
with a man, who I will refer to as E. After messaging and calling one another, E told Mrs W 
he was overseeing the construction of a casino-hotel complex overseas.
In March 2021, E told Mrs W he needed to make several payments for the costs of the 
construction. He claimed he was unable to make the payments himself from abroad, so 
provided Mrs W with his details to log into a website and asked her to make the payments 
for him using his account. Mrs W made two transactions of £80,000 each, but the third 
payment was unsuccessful. E said he would need to travel to the UK in order to make the 
payment.
E was supposedly arrested whilst trying to leave the country due to the payment of 
£80,000.00 not being processed. A lawyer claiming to represent E contacted Mrs W and 
informed her E was in debt. Between 9 March and 6 July 2021, Mrs W made a total of 13 
payments totalling £23,795.00 to several different international bank accounts, incurring a 
charge of £9.50 for each payment. Mrs W was told the payments were for various costs E 
had accrued, including hotel bills and penalties by the authorities. During this time, Mrs W 
also received a total of £4,000.00 from someone I will refer to as S - which helped facilitate 
several payments. 
The view of 29 November 2021 covered the detailed timeline of the transactions.
Eventually Mrs W was asked to make a payment of £16,500.00 to the Court of Justice, and
she told her son what was happening. He told her that she was being scammed. Mrs W 
contacted Lloyds on 12 August 2021 and raised a complaint.
Lloyds told her they were unable to recover any funds from the receiving bank and held her
liable for the loss. Mrs W believes Lloyds hasnt treated her fairly; she says the transactions
in dispute are unusual enough that Lloyds ought to have been aware something was 
happening, and as her bank they have a responsibility to protect her against falling victim to 
a scam. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She explained the transactions were not 
covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) because they were made to 
international accounts. She also didnt think the payments were particularly unusual or 
suspicious. Although she acknowledged they were international payments; but they were 
spread over of period of five months and a balance remained in Mrs Ws current account.
Mrs W didnt agree, so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons.
I realise my decision will be a significant disappointment to Mrs W, I sympathise with her 
circumstances and I am sorry she has fallen victim to a scam. I understand that Im 
delivering a very difficult message and Id like to reassure Mrs W that Ive carefully 
considered her complaint before reaching this decision. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Mrs W has provided some newspaper articles she feels might be relevant to her case. 
However, each case is judged on its own merits and what may appear (on the face of it) to 
be a similar set of circumstances, may often transpire not to be the case. Mrs W has also 
provided an information leaflet on the voluntary code on authorised push payments (APP) 
scams but as the investigator explained this code - the CRM - doesnt apply in this case 
because the payments were made to an international account.
In broad terms, the starting position is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that 
into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Whilst I recognise Mrs W is the victim of a scam and didnt know she was paying fraudsters; 
these factors alone dont mean Lloyds should refund her. In this case, I need to decide 
whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs W when she made the 
payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered the position 
carefully.
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice Lloyds should have 
been on the lookout for out of character or unusual transactions. So, Ive first considered 
whether the payment requests Mrs W made were out of character and unusual. What can be considered unusual or uncharacteristic requires reference to common activity 
on an account. Ive looked back at the account statements as far as May 2020 to assess 
this. These were international payments which was unusual for the account, but the 
payments were between £500 to £3,000 and Mrs W had made faster payments before  
albeit for slightly lower amounts. Whilst I understand the amounts Mrs W transferred were 
significant sums to her, each individual payment wasnt so large Id expect Lloyds to ask 
questions about them  especially as the payments didnt empty her account.
I also dont think this pattern of activity would obviously have aroused suspicion with Lloyds. 
As Ive said above, the payments werent significantly large enough on their own and there 
were large gaps between the payments to the scammer  the shortest being two days. After 
the sixth payment, transfers were made to the same known payee. The 13 payments were 
made over a period of four months and not in quick succession and this pattern of spending 
isnt what Id typically expect to see in cases of fraud.  Overall, I dont think there was 
enough suspicion about them that I wouldve expected Lloyds to have intervened.
There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. Of course, those arrangements 
do need to accommodate that spending habits alter, unusual needs arise, and it will be 
impossible to prevent all fraud without a significant number of genuine payments being 
delayed considerably and inconveniently. To the bank, these payments appeared as 
genuinely authorised payments. On the face of it, it seems to me that that there was no 
reason why the payments wouldnt have seemed genuine. Ive thought carefully about the 
values of the transfers here, as well as the gaps between each transfer, but overall, I'm not 
persuaded that there was enough suspicion about the activity that I wouldve expected 
Lloyds to intervene here. 
Mrs W was in her mid-60s. She was widowed and her husband had passed away in 2017. 
She says she was lonely, and this is what drew her in to the scam. I do think Mrs Ws 
personal circumstances meant she was more likely to be vulnerable to this type of scam  as 
it seems to me, she was someone understandably looking for companionship. But Lloyds 
dont seem to have been aware of her circumstances at the time the transactions took place.
In this case, the funds were transferred to an international bank account. International banks 
arent bound by the same rules and regulations as banks within the UK.  The first scam 
payment was made in March 2021 and the last on 6 July 2021 and the scam was reported 
on 10 August 2021, over a month after the last payment. I understand that Mrs W didnt 
know she was the victim of a scam before this, but the delay means any recovery action was 
unlikely to be successful, as scammers usually remove funds within hours. Lloyds contacted 
the receiving banks and asked for the funds to be returned to Mrs W. But Lloyds is reliant 
upon the international banks choosing to return funds. It cant require or force them to and 
unfortunately no funds have been returned. From what Ive seen Lloyds have done what it 
shouldve to try and recover the funds for Mrs W, but have been unable to obtain a refund for 
her.
I do accept Mrs W has fallen victim to what can only be described as a cruel and
callous scam. Im sorry she has lost money and I can understand why she would like to be 
compensated for her losses. However, despite my natural sympathy for the situation she 
finds herself in ultimately, I dont think the activity was suspicious enough such that Lloyds 
should have intervened. It therefore follows that I dont think that Lloyds refusal to reimburse 
Mrs W for those transactions is unfair or unreasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman