DRN-3647441
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) didnt inform him that a merchant had 
challenged a Chargeback request in relation to goods he didnt receive. He would like a 
refund, with interest, of the cost of the item he didnt get, and his credit limit reinstated.
.What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision .
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:
Lloyds say it sent  Mr B a text message to say the merchant was disputing his claim. 
Mr B says he didnt get this. However, I am not persuaded getting or not getting 
Lloyds text would have altered the outcome here .Mr B had already made a 
comprehensive submission to Lloyds. So, I think it unlikely he had any further 
substantive information to provide.
The merchant evidenced attempted delivery of the goods, the problem, from what I 
have seen, seems to be with customs in the receiving country. I dont believe that is 
the merchants responsibility . Given the information the merchant provided  I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to conclude the Chargeback request wouldnt 
succeed and so not to take it any further. On that basis I cant reasonably ask Lloyds 
to refund Mr B the cost of the goods
Mr B says that Lloyds should have considered a Section  75 claim, but I dont think 
that would have been appropriate here . Section 75 claims are where there has been 
a breach of contract or misrepresentation. In terms of a breach of contract the 
merchant has shown it did send the goods. And there has been no suggestion of 
misrepresentation of the goods.
Finally, Mr B has made some comments about his credit file and credit limit. As I 
understand it Mr B chose not to make payments to his account once Lloyds re -
debited his account for the purchase in dispute. That was his choice to do that. I have  
noted in Lloyds customer contact notes it advised Mr B of the impact of doing this. As 
a result of not making payments Mr Bs account defaulted and the debt was sold on . 
In not making payments Mr B was in breach of his terms and conditions so I cant say 
Lloyds were wrong to take the action it did. So, I cant reasonably ask it to reinstate 
his account and credit limit
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont upheld this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman