DRN-3180305
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that Vanquis Bank Limited increased credit limit on her credit card 
account, which she feels was unaffordable for her at that time. Miss C also feels that the 
credit agreement she reached with Vanquis was unfair and that as a result shes paid 
Vanquis significantly more than shes ever borrowed. Miss C is also unhappy that Vanquis 
sold her credit card debt to a third-party debt purchasing company.
What happened
Miss C had a credit account with Vanquis which had an initial credit limit of £250. In 
December 2014, Vanquis increased the credit limit on Miss Cs account to £1,000. A further 
credit limit increase was also offered to Miss C in May 2015, which increased the credit limit 
on Miss Cs account to £2,000. Unfortunately, Miss C fell into financial difficulty in 2018 and 
this led to Miss C falling into arrears on her Vanquis account, with the account being 
defaulted by Vanquis for unpaid arrears in February 2020. 
Miss C wasnt happy with the Vanquis account, including that she felt that she hadnt been 
able to afford the credit limit increases that Vanquis had offered her or with the unreasonably 
large amount that shed paid towards her Vanquis account during the time that the account 
had been active. Miss C also wasnt happy that Vanquis sold her credit account debt to a 
third-party debt purchasing company. So, she raised a complaint. 
Vanquis looked at Miss Cs complaint. But they didnt feel that thered been anything in the 
checks theyd undertaken into Miss Cs financial position at the time of the credit limit 
increases that should have given them cause to suspect Miss C might not be able to afford 
the credit limit increases being offered to her at those times. Additionally, Vanquis were 
satisfied that theyd administered the credit account in line with the terms of the account, 
including the interest and charges that had been applied, and that the sale of the account to 
the debt purchasing company was also permitted by the account terms. So, they didnt 
uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Miss C wasnt satisfied with Vanquis response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that there hadnt been 
any reason for Vanquis to have felt that Miss C wouldnt be able to afford the credit limit 
increases on the account, and they also felt that the interest and charges applied to the 
account, as well as the sale of the account debt to the debt purchasing company, hadnt 
been undertaken by Vanquis unfairly.
Miss C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before approving a 
customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of credit available to a 
customer on an existing line of credit, the business would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate borrower focussed checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a 
customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
In this instance, before offering the credit limit increases to Miss C, Vanquis reviewed how 
Miss C had managed her account in the months leading up to the offer, and they also 
obtained information from a credit reference agency to gain a better understanding of      
Miss Cs wider financial position at those times.
At the time of the first credit limit increase offer in December 2014, the credit account 
statements demonstrate that Miss C had largely maintained the balance of her account 
within the agreed credit limit up to that time, only exceeding the credit limit on one occasion, 
and I dont feel that that single occasion ought to have given Vanquis cause to consider that 
Miss C might have been struggling financially at that time such that she an offer to increase 
the credit limit on her account from £250 to £1,000 shouldnt have been made.
Im also satisfied that the information that Vanquis obtained from the credit reference 
agency, which included that Miss C didnt have an excessive amount of existing external 
credit and didnt have any active payday loans or was in arrears on any of her existing credit 
accounts, also shouldnt have given Vanquis any reasonable cause to suspect that Miss C 
might not be able to afford the credit limit increase. And while there was a record of Miss C 
defaulting on a credit account previously, that default had occurred over five years prior, and 
so I dont feel should have reasonably prevented Vanquis offering the additional credit to 
Miss C that they did.
I also find it difficult not to reach a similar conclusion with regard the second credit limit 
increase, from £1,000 to £2,000, which was offered to Miss C by Vanquis in May 2015. And 
this is because again, the account statements in the months leading up to that credit limit 
increase dont show any record of Miss C exceeding the credit limit on her account, and the 
updated credit file information hat Vanquis obtained also didnt highlight anything which I feel 
should have given them cause to consider that Miss C wouldnt be able to afford that second 
credit limit increase.
It's also notable that Miss C has provided her current account statements to this service and 
so Ive assessed these to see if, had Vanquis reviewed these statements before offering the 
further credit to Miss C  which in consideration of the above, Im satisfied there was no 
reasonable requirement for Vanquis to do  whether there was any information present on 
the statements which might suggest that Miss C was in financial difficulty at those times.
But having done so, I havent seen anything which I feel would have given Vanquis any fair 
cause to reach such a conclusion, and I say this because its evident that Miss C did have 
surplus funds available to her after her essential monthly spending was complete and also 
that Miss C wasnt paying a notably high amount to other credit providers at that time.
All of which means that I dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably conclude that Vanquis, from 
the information available to them at the time of the credit limit increase offers in December 
2014 and May 2015, should have had any reasonable cause to suspect that Miss C might 
not be able to afford those credit limit increases, such that they shouldnt have been offered 
to her.Miss C is also unhappy with the terms of the credit account and feels that shes paid enough 
to Vanquis over the time that shes held that account such that it would be fair now for 
Vanquis to write off the balance that remains currently outstanding.
But I havent seen anything to suggest that Vanquis have applied interest or charges to the 
balance of this account outside the agreed terms of the account. And while Miss C has 
stated that she didnt understand the terms of the account, including that the account would 
accrue interest on a monthly basis on the balance outstanding, I feel that it was incumbent 
on Miss C, as the account holder, to have understood the terms of the account that she 
applied for, and as such I dont feel that the outstanding balance of the account can be 
considered as being unfair.
Finally, Miss C has stated that shes unhappy that Vanquis sold her account to a third-party 
debt repurchasing company. I can appreciate how Miss C might not want to have been 
contacted by a debt purchasing company in relation to the balance outstanding on this 
account, but again its evident that the terms of the account permit such a sale of debt to 
occur, and I note that such a term is a common feature of credit accounts such as this.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Vanquis have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Miss C, either in regard to the credit limit increases that they offered 
to her or in regard to how they administered the account. And it follows from this that my final 
decision will be that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Vanquis to take any 
further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss C was wanting here, but I hope that shell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman