DRN-3516425
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC caused delays when he was transferring his ISA 
and share dealing account to a new provider.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. In summary, our Investigator recommended Barclays pays Mr C £350 compensation 
for delays it caused. 
Barclays has asked us to justify the trouble and upset payment of £350 and feel it hasnt 
seen the emails the new provider sent to it that the Investigator referred to. It doesnt believe 
it caused a delay. Mr C would like compensation for his potential investment loss due to 
being unable to trade and fees he incurred for holding his account with Barclays for longer 
than he had to. 
The only thing in dispute is whether Barclays received the transfer instructions for Mr Cs 
share dealing account earlier than 27 November 2020 and if it did, what compensation is 
due for the delay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our Investigator for similar reasons. Im upholding this 
complaint and Im directing Barclays to pay Mr C £350 for the trouble and upset caused. Ill 
explain why.
ISA transfer
Looking at the evidence I can see that the ISA transfer completed in the right timeframe. 
There was an issue where Barclays missed the proposed trade and settlement dates but the 
transfer completed on 30 October 2020 and there doesnt seem to have been a delay that 
would affect Mr C in the circumstances to warrant compensation.
Share dealing account transfer
Ive looked carefully at the evidence provided by both Barclays and the new account provider 
to determine when delays occurred and the reasons behind the delay. Barclays has said that 
the transfer request for Mr Cs share dealing account was received on 27 November 2020 
and it sent the valuation on 30 November 2020. The transfer was then completed on 31 
December 2020 and that the residual cash was sent on 5 January 2021. It says it didnt 
cause any delays and it completed in a reasonable time.
Ive reviewed evidence of emails from the new provider which confirms to me that the 
request to transfer the share dealing account was made on 22 September  at the same 
time as the ISA transfer request. Barclays has said throughout its complaint notes that it only 
received a transfer request for the ISA, but Ive seen two emails with two references from the 
new provider to Barclays asking for the transfers of the ISA and the share dealing account. 
Its possible there was confusion on Barclays end, but in any event after the ISA transfer 
completed there were six additional emails from the new provider asking for the valuation. It 
wasnt until 11 November that Barclays said it didnt have a transfer request. The other 
emails simply went unanswered. And I can see they were sent to the same address and 
contained the reference the new provider used for the share dealing account transfer 
request. So, I think its reasonable to suggest that Barclays should have done more and 
actioned the request earlier. It didnt send a valuation until 30 November and so delayed 
things by around two months.
I can also see that when the transfer was complete, the residual cash was sent with the 
incorrect reference number, the money was returned and wasnt then settled into Mr Cs 
account until March 2021  another two months delay.
From the evidence Ive seen from both parties, I think Barclays are at fault for the delays as 
it ought to have acted on the many emails the new provider sent it asking for a valuation  
after the ISA transfer had completed.
Mr Cs losses
Mr C has calculated his losses at over £9,000. Hes told us that he wouldve been able to 
purchase shares earlier, but wasnt able to due to the delays. I can see he wasnt able to 
trade whilst the transfer was happening, but Ive also seen nothing to suggest he was 
expecting to. And, whilst I appreciate hes seen a date at which he couldve made some 
gains, I think its too speculative to suggest he wouldve made those trades without the 
benefit of hindsight. In this case, Ive not seen enough to suggest Mr C lost out from being 
unable to trade over the time of the transfer.
I do acknowledge that Mr Cs account with Barclays remained open longer than it needed to. 
And hes also asked for interest on the residual cash that took time to transfer over. I can 
see our Investigator recommended Barclays pays Mr C £350 compensation. I think this 
amount is fair and reasonable overall. I think the continual delays wouldve caused him 
significant frustration  as well as mixed messages over who was responsible for the delays. 
I think that total compensation of £350 is reasonable to compensate for that frustration, as 
well as any fees and interest Mr C has lost as a result of the delays. I appreciate Mr C has 
completed calculations and wants £350 in addition to interest and account fees, but I think a 
total of £350 is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK Plc must pay Mr C 
£350 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman