DRN-4463288
The complaint
R complains that Premium Credit Limited, who Ill call Premium Credit, took two payments
towards his running credit agreement in the same month when they merely wanted to
change the payment date.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in October 2023. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
I dont currently agree with our investigators view. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When R wanted to change the date of his running credit payment it was agreed that
payment would be taken on 13th of the month. The first, delayed, payment was already set
up for 13 March 2023 and Premium Credit have explained they accepted the date change on
the basis the date would be accelerated and thus moved forward. That meant that the
payment due on 1 April 2023 was brought forward to 13 March 2023, meaning that two
payments were deducted that day.
I cant see that Premium Credit communicated that to R and I think it would only have been
fair for them to do so, he was their customer and I dont think it would be reasonable to rely
on the broker to provide that information. Afterall it seems the reason R wanted to repay the
credit in 12 instalments rather than the usual 10 was because it was more affordable for him.
I think that should have made it clear that R would struggle to pay two instalments in March,
even if that meant there would be no instalment to pay in April 2023.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that the additional monthly credit burden in March 2023 would have been
worrying for R, but it seems the payment was made, and Ive not seen evidence there was
any financial impact. In the circumstances, I think Premium Credit should pay R £50 in
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My provisional decision
Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Premium Credit Limited to pay R £50 to
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Further comments and/or evidence
Premium credit had no further comments, but R did respond. He said that Premium Credit 
could have sorted the issue on the same day that he called them. He said it was 
unnecessary to wait a month, and to ask him to make two payments when he did not have 
the budget. He explained that he had no option but to pay as he needed the insurance 
cover, and he stessed that there had been a financial implication as his insurance cost had 
risen significantly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded Mr R has provided sufficient evidence of financial detriment. I dont think I 
have sufficient information to suggest his insurance increased as a result of the issue, and 
while I understand there was distress and inconvenience caused by Premium Credits 
actions, I think £50 is sufficient compensation in the circumstances.
Putting things right
My provisional decision, therefore, remains unchanged and becomes my final decision on 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and tell Premium Credit Limited to 
pay R £50 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman