DRN-3931305
Complaint
Ms J has complained about personal loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to her. She says that the loans were unaffordable and so shouldnt have 
been provided to her.
Background
Everyday Loans initially provided Ms J with a first loan for £1,750.00 in April 2019. This loan 
had an APR of 93.6% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £3,273.96, which included interest, fees and charges of £1,523.36, was due to be 
repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just under £140.
 
Everyday Loans then provided Ms J with a second loan for £2,000.00 in February 2021. This 
loan had an APR of 77.7% and a term of 18 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £3,069.72, which included interest, fees and charges of £1,069.72, was due to be 
repaid in 18 monthly instalments of just over £170.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Ms Js complaint and she thought Everyday Loans didnt 
do anything wrong when providing loan 1. But she also that Everyday Loans ought to have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided Ms J with loan 2. So she thought that Ms Js 
complaint should be partially upheld. 
Ms J didnt disagree with our adjudicators assessment but Everyday Loans didnt agree with 
the outcome on loan 2. So the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. As 
the parties appear to be in agreement on the outcome reached for loan 1, this decision on 
only looking at whether Everyday Loans should have provided Ms J with loan 2.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Js complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Ms Js complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out reasonable checks to be able to understand 
whether Ms J could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
before loan 2 was provided. The results of which showed that Ms J was significantly 
indebted and that a significant proportion of her monthly income going towards credit 
repayments. And she was still borrowing from payday type lenders despite the fact that she 
had been given loan 1 to consolidate her debts.
Im also mindful that Everyday Loans relied on the use of average data to calculate Ms Js 
living expenses. This is despite the fact that the information on her credit file showed she 
didnt fit the profile of the average borrower. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Ms J has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time of loan 2. And while its possible Ms Js financial position wasnt 
as a result of financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest 
this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from Everyday 
Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept Ms Js version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Ms Js existing financial position meant that she was 
always unlikely to be able to afford the payments to loan 2, without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. And Im satisfied that, bearing in mind everything, reasonable and 
proportionate checks would more like than not have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt 
have provided loan 2 to Ms J. As Everyday Loans provided Ms J with loan 2, notwithstanding 
this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Ms J ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Ms J lost out because of what Everyday Loans did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Ms J
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Ms J by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Ms J paid on loan 2;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Ms J to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Ms Js credit file as a result of loan 2. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Ms J a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Js complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman