DRN-2538267
The complaint
Ms S complains about the default that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance, has recorded on her credit file relating to payments under a fixed 
sum loan agreement.
What happened
Ms S entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Barclays Partner Finance that she 
signed in February 2019 to pay for a mobile phone. The price of the phone was £1,048 and 
she made an advance payment of £69 so the loan was for £979 which she agreed to repay 
by 20 monthly payments of £48.95. The loan was interest free. 
Ms S didnt make the repayments that were due from April to June 2019 so she was issued 
with a default notice  she then made the required payment of £146.85. She contacted 
Barclays Partner Finance in August 2019 to discuss her situation. She didnt make the 
payments that were due from October to December 2019 so it sent her arrears notices. She 
contacted Barclays Partner Finance in November 2019 and gave it further information about 
her situation, including that she was living overseas, and it put a 30 day hold on her account. 
She contacted it again in December 2019 and it put a further 14 day hold on her account. 
When that period had ended and she hadnt made a payment to it, it sent her a default 
notice in January 2020. She contacted it again and it put another 30 day hold on her account 
but, as she didnt make a payment to it, the default was registered on her account.
Ms S complained to Barclays Partner Finance and it accepted that it should have advised 
her during the phone calls that it would be registering a default  so it paid her £25 
compensation. But it said that her account was in arrears so she should contact its 
collections team to discuss possible repayment plans. It also provided her with information 
about debt-counselling organisations. 
Ms S wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service but our investigator 
didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She didnt consider that Barclays 
Partner Finance had acted unfairly or reasonably.
Ms S has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says that 
Barclays Partner Finance told her that it would call her back to find out what her situation 
was and that she was never told that she needed to make any payments or that it had been 
trying to write to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ms S had agreed to make 20 monthly payments of £48.95 for the phone  she didnt 
make the payments due between April and June 2019 so Barclays Partner Finance 
sent her a default notice  and she then paid the required amount;
she didnt make the payments due from October to December 2019 but she 
contacted Barclays Partner Finance in August, November and December 2019 and 
January 2020 to provide it with information about her situation  and she told it that 
she was living overseas;
although Ms S was living overseas, it was her obligation to make the required 
payments to Barclays Partner Finance when they became due, and she hadnt 
provided it with a change of address so I consider that it was reasonable for it to send 
letters and notices to the address that it held for her;
Barclays Partner Finance says that it doesnt send default notices, arrears 
notifications or other communications that include account numbers or other personal 
information by e-mail as it isnt a secure form of communication;
Barclays Partner Finance put a hold on collection activity on Ms Ss account for 30 
days in November 2019, a further 14 days in December 2019 and another 30 days in 
January 2020 - but Ms S didnt make any payments to it;
it had sent her a default notice in January 2020 requiring her to pay it £146.85 by a 
specified date in February 2020  and when the last 30 day hold ended and Ms S 
hadnt made the payment required in the default notice, it registered the default on 
her account;
I consider that it was fair and reasonable for it to send a default notice to Ms S at the 
address that it held for her and that, by doing so, it gave her the required information 
about the default  even if she didnt receive that letter because she was living 
overseas;
Barclays Partner Finance is required to provide true and accurate information about 
Ms Ss loan to the credit reference agencies  and I consider that the default that it 
recorded is a true and accurate record of her payment history;
although Ms S had explained her situation to Barclays Partner Finance she was still 
required to repay the loan and I consider that she ought reasonably to have known 
that it was likely that it would record adverse information on her credit file if she didnt 
make the loan repayments;
Barclays Partner Finance says that it should have advised her during the phone calls 
that it would be registering a default and it paid her £25 compensation  but, other 
than that, Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that it has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in its dealings with Ms S about her loan agreement;
it has asked her to contact its collection team to discuss possible repayment plans 
and it has provided her with information about debt-counselling organisations - I 
consider that its response to her complaint has been fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Barclays Partner Finance 
to remove the default from Ms Ss credit file, to pay her any further compensation or 
to take any other action in response to her complaint.
I suggest that Ms S contacts Barclays Partner Finance to try to agree an affordable 
repayment arrangement for the amount that she owes to it. If she doesnt do so, I consider it 
to be likely that it will take further action to recover that amount from her, to the extent that 
its legally entitled to do so. If Ms S is experiencing financial difficulties, its required to 
respond to those difficulties positively and sympathetically.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman