DRN-3758908
Complaint
Mr H has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him. He says
L2G irresponsibly lent him this loan.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr H and L2G had told us. And he thought that L2G
hadnt lent irresponsibly. So he didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. Mr Hs representative 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint.
L2G needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr H could
afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think about
when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G provided Mr H with a loan for £250 in November 2018. It had an APR of 1,382.4% and 
was to due be repaid in 78 weekly instalments of £12.91, which meant the total amount to be 
repaid was £1,019.89. 
L2G says it agreed to Mr Hs application after he provided details of his monthly income and 
expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out 
on Mr H. The information Mr H provided about his income and expenditure showed hed be
able to comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. But it, in any event,
adjusted Mr Hs declarations to account for what its verification checks showed and and this 
left enough for Mr H to be able to make his payments. L2G says, in these circumstances it 
was reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Mr Hs representative has said Mr H shouldnt 
have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr H and L2G have said. The first thing for me to say is 
that this was Mr Hs first loan with L2G. The information provided does suggest Mr H was 
asked to provide details of his income and expenditure and L2G didnt just rely on what it 
was told.
Its fair to say that Mr H had defaulted on credit accounts in the past. But this was well over a 
year before this loan was provided and I think it is reasonable for L2G to have placed less 
weight on this. Bearing in mind the amount of the repayments, the credit search not showing 
much in the way of recent payment difficulties,  Mr Hs lack of any previous lending with L2G 
and the low weekly and monthly repayments, I dont think it was unreasonable for L2G to 
rely on the payments being affordable as, on the face of things, they did appear to be. Id 
also add that while it wasnt necessary for L2G to have obtained further information before 
lending, despite having been given the opportunity to do so, Mr H hasnt provided us with 
anything at all which contradicts the disposable income figure L2G arrived at, or more 
crucially suggests that repayments were unaffordable. 
I accept that its possible Mr Hs actual circumstances may not be reflected in the information 
gathered. But its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances 
where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that L2G did anything 
wrong in deciding to lend to Mr H - it carried out reasonable checks even though its possible 
the information it was provided with may not have told the whole story. L2G reasonably 
relied on this information and given the amount of the repayments involved and its lack of 
previous history with Mr H, I dont think it was unreasonable for L2G to provide this loan.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr H. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman