DRN-4381438
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Mrs N says that she only recently realised that lenders were required to carry out checks to 
ensure she could afford the repayments without taking on further debt. She didnt think that 
Shawbrook carried out adequate checks before lending to her and said that at the time the 
loan was provided she had a poor credit history and several other debts outstanding.
Shawbrook issued a final response letter dated 30 June 2023. It said that Mrs N applied for a 
£16,000 loan on 4 January 2018 repayable over 54 months. Its underwriting team called 
Mrs N to ask the purpose of the loan and she said it was to consolidate her debts being her 
overdraft, two loans and three credit cards. It said that the lending wasnt providing new 
funds but instead managing Mrs Ns existing debts. It said that affordability checks were 
carried out based on the information provided at the time of application and Mrs N met its 
lending criteria.
Our investigator thought that Shawbrook could have gathered further details to ensure it had 
a clear understanding of Mrs Ns financial circumstances at the time of the loan. He found 
that had Mrs Ns income been verified it would have supported the amount Mrs N had 
declared. He noted that Mrs N had several other debts at the time, but these were generally 
being managed well. He considered the costs involved in the new loan compared to the 
debts Mrs N was consolidating and he didnt think that Shawbrook was wrong to provide this 
loan. 
Mrs N didnt accept our investigators view. She reiterated that she didnt think that 
Shawbrook had carried out adequate checks before the loan was provided and noted her 
credit file showed she had missed payments and had two previous defaults. She said she 
used the money to consolidate some debts but it wasnt enough to consolidate all of her 
debts and while the Shawbrook loan may have reduced her credit costs, it was still 
unaffordable. She provided further evidence to support her position that the loan shouldnt 
have been provided.
The additional information provided didnt change our investigators view and as a resolution 
hasnt been agreed this complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to issue a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible lending  including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set out on our website.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But while it is down to the firm to decide what specific checks it wishes to 
carry out, these should be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit 
being provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments, and the 
total cost of the credit. 
Shawbrook gathered information from Mrs N through the application process and based on 
this it said Mrs N met its lending criteria. I have looked at the information gathered and can 
see that Mrs N declared an annual income of £52,000. The credit check showed that Mrs N 
had two defaults, but these were historic (from 2014) and she was generally managing her 
credit commitments well. That said, the check showed she had several debts outstanding 
including a mortgage, loans, credit cards and overdrafts. Given this I think that Shawbrook 
was required to carry out further checks to ensure it had a clear understanding of Mrs Ns 
financial circumstances.
Mrs N declared an annual income of £52,000. Given the size and term of the loan and noting 
Mrs Ns existing credit commitments I think it would have been reasonable to have verified 
Mrs Ns income. I have looked through the bank statements Mrs N has provided and based 
on these, I find that verification would have confirmed Mrs Ns declared income.
Mrs N had several debts outstanding. Shawbrook called Mrs N when she applied for the loan 
to understand the loans purpose. Mrs N said the loan was for debt consolidation and noted 
consolidating her overdraft, two loans and three credit cards. It is important to take this into 
account and to note that this loan wasnt intended to provide Mrs N with additional new 
lending but instead was consolidating existing debt. 
I have looked through Mrs Ns bank statements and the additional information she has 
provided as well as the information gathered through Shawbrooks credit checks. The 
Shawbrook monthly loan repayments were around £374. This loan was used to repay 
Mrs Ns overdraft, two loans and three credit cards. Noting the amounts that she was 
previously paying for these existing debts, consolidating into the new Shawbrook loan would 
have reduced her monthly repayments. Given this it appears that the new loan was to 
Mrs Ns benefit.
Mrs N has said that although the Shawbrook loan reduced her costs it was still unaffordable. 
Mrs Ns monthly income was around £3,000. She has said that her husband paid certain 
costs which I think she would have explained had she been asked. After the consolidation of 
her debts she still had outstanding debts which she has noted as car finance, two loans and 
credit card debts. While I note these accounted for a significant amount of her income, I do 
not find I can say that these, alongside the additional regular expenses I have noted from her 
bank statements show that the new Shawbrook loan was unaffordable. So, while I note that 
after the debt consolidation Mrs N was still paying a substantial amount for her credit 
commitments, given the Shawbrook loan reduced her outgoings I find in this case that I 
cannot say Shawbrook acted irresponsibly by providing the loan. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman