DRN-3209666
The complaint
Mr E complains about credit limit increases made by NewDay Ltd on two credit cards that he 
held with it. Mr E said that he was already in a difficult financial situation, and this increased 
lending made things worse.
  
What happened
Mr E told us hed taken out two credit cards with NewDay, a marbles card and an aqua card.
He said on both of these cards, the credit limits were increased to levels that he simply
couldnt afford. He said if NewDay had checked his financial position at the time, it wouldve
seen that he was struggling. Hed been in a debt management plan since well before the
cards were taken out. He was also at the limit of his overdraft, and he was relying heavily on
payday loans.
Mr E didnt think that these increases should have been made. He wanted NewDay to pay
back all the interest and charges it had applied after these limit increases had been made,
with interest.
NewDay didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that it assessed whether Mr E could
afford each of these increases, and it thought he could. NewDay said it had checked again
since, and still thought these increases had been affordable for Mr E.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. First, he set out the position on
both cards.
The Aqua card was opened on 20 September 2012. The limits were then increased
on the following dates:
-  May 2014 - £500 to £650
-  November 2014 - £650 to £1,300
-  May 2015 - £1,300 to £2,050
-  October 2015 - £2,050 to £3,100
-  April 2016 - £3,100 to £4,050
-  December 2016 - £4,050 to £4,800
The Marbles card was then opened in September 2015 with a limit of £900. The credit limit 
was then increased on the following dates:
-  January 2016 - £900 to £1,900
-  May 2016 - £1,900 to £3,100
Mr E challenges the credit limit increases given from 2015 onwards.
Our investigator explained that before deciding whether to lend, NewDay had to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr Es ability to repay any increased lending in
a sustainable manner. He then looked at each account in turn.
Our investigator had understood that NewDay hadnt considered fresh and up to date data
from credit reference agencies (CRAs) each time it agreed to make further lending to Mr E,
after 2012. He inferred that it had continued to rely on the data it received in 2012.
Our investigator didnt think that NewDay shouldve increased Mr Es aqua card credit limit
from £1,300 to £2,050 in May 2015. He thought NewDay shouldve done a complete credit
check on Mr E at this point. He also said that NewDay shouldnt have made limit increases
between October 2015 and December 2016, which added a further £2,750 to Mr Es
available lending. He also noted that the CRA data that NewDay had, started to show a high
level of payday lending from March 2016 onwards.
Our investigator also looked at the lending NewDay made on Mr Es marbles card. He didnt
comment on the initial lending, which Mr E hadnt complained about. But he said that when
NewDay increased this cards limit, in January 2016 from £900 to £1,900, it was clear that no
proportionate affordability check was done. And Mr E already had a card with a limit of
£2,050. Mr E had been consistently taking out payday loans within this period.
Our investigator listed a very high number of payday loans taken by Mr E, from 2013 to
2018. He said Mr E was living in his overdraft, and using this to pay his credit card and
payday loans. Payments to his debt management programme were also being missed. So
our investigator felt it was clear that Mr E was in an unstable financial position from at least
May 2015 onwards. Our investigator thought NewDay made a mistake by providing Mr E
with the credit limit increases on his marbles and aqua cards, because a more proportionate
check wouldve shown he was in an unstable financial position.
Our investigator said that because NewDay shouldnt have increased Mr Es card limits, it
should restructure both accounts to refund all interest and fees paid up to and including the
May 2015 credit limit increase on the aqua credit card and January 2016 limit increase on
the marbles card. If there were any surplus after this money was refunded, that should be
paid back to Mr E with 8% simple interest applied.
Our investigator said NewDay should reduce Mr Es credit limits back to where they were
before the disputed increases. And if there were any late payment markers associated with
these accounts, then the credit file should be amended. 
NewDay didnt agree. It thought that the checks it had done on Mr Es cards were sufficient.
It wanted to stress how well managed the cards were. It said it would be unusual if Mr Es
limits hadnt been increased during this time.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I note that the Lending Standards Board, which provided best practice guidelines for 
credit limit increases that have been in place since 2011, starts its guidelines for 
responsible lending with the following 
General Checks for Credit Limit Increases
Issuers should undertake appropriate checks to assess a customers ability to 
repay and overall creditworthiness before increasing a credit limit. These 
checks should include reference to information from credit reference agencies 
plus at least one of the following three points:
-  The customers income and financial commitments-  How they have handled their finances in the past
-  Internal credit scoring techniques
I think what this means is that NewDay should use recent, up to date information 
from CRAs. Not that it should use the old information it had received when it first lent 
to Mr E.
Unusually, NewDay hasnt been able to show us that when all of these lending 
decisions were made, it had access to a monthly update detailing Mr Es overall 
lending, including a running total of Mr Es total debt position throughout the time that 
the contested lending decisions were made.
It looks as if NewDay didnt start to get this information until March 2016. So NewDay 
does appear to have made a number of lending decisions without reference to 
recent, up to date information from CRAs. I dont think thats compatible with the 
guidelines Ive reproduced above. I dont think that NewDay is able to demonstrate, 
using Mr Es use and management of his NewDay cards alone, that the contested 
lending was responsible.
I think, as our investigator noted, that the position was slightly different after March 
2016, because NewDay did then start to get regularly updated information on Mr Es 
overall debt position, including the number of payday loans he had. But again, I 
agree that additional checks should have been done at this stage, because the 
information NewDay was getting then showed that Mr E had a high number of 
payday loans.
I think our investigator was right to say that further checks should have been done, 
before credit limit increases from May 2015 onwards were made. My overall 
conclusion here is the same as that of our investigator, that NewDay simply didnt 
have enough up to date information about Mr Es financial position to make a 
decision on increased lending from May 2015 onwards.
So now I have to consider what NewDay would have done, if these additional checks 
had been made.
Our investigator has looked in considerable detail at Mr Es financial position, and 
what NewDay would have uncovered if it had looked closely at this. He set out in 
detail the very high number of payday loans that Mr E had taken out, over the time 
that NewDay made the contested increases.
What our investigator said about Mr Es reliance on payday loans is consistent with 
what I can see on Mr Es credit file. NewDay has said that it wouldnt have seen this 
data before March 2016. But I can also see other things on Mr Es file which would 
have been clear to NewDay if it had checked  such as the additional credit card hed 
taken out in 2013, which had an increased credit limit in April 2015 and substantially 
increased lending almost immediately after this.
I think if NewDay had carried out additional checks, so that proportionate and 
borrower focussed checks were done, then its likely that at least some of the 
information indicating Mr Es precarious financial position would have been revealed. 
And if so, I think its reasonable to assume that NewDay wouldnt have offered Mr E 
additional lending at this time.
For that reason, I also think this complaint should be upheld.To put things right, Ive reached a slightly different conclusion to our investigator. Mr 
E hasnt complained about lending made before May 2015, or about the initial 
decision to open a marbles card for him in September 2015. So the lending that 
NewDay made then has not been challenged. I dont think its appropriate to ask 
NewDay to make a refund of interest on this lending. Ill ask NewDay to refund any 
fees and interest applied on lending above these amounts.
So I think NewDay should 
-  Refund onto Mr Es aqua account, all interest and fees charged from May 
2015, on amounts above the limit of £1,300, which was in place prior to the 
May 2015 credit limit increase on this card. It should do that from May 2015 to 
date.
-  Refund onto Mr Es marbles account, all interest and fees charged from 
January 2016, on amounts above the limit of £900, which was in place prior to 
the January 2016 credit limit increase on this card. It should do that from 
January 2016 to date.
This rarely results in a surplus, but if there is any surplus after this money was 
refunded, that should be paid back to Mr E with 8% simple interest applied.
Our investigator said that NewDay should reduce Mr Es credit limits back to where 
they were before the disputed increases, but NewDay couldnt responsibly make this 
change where Mr Es current balance exceeds those amounts. And Mr Es accounts 
are closed for further spending, so I dont think this is required.
Our investigator also said if there were any late payment markers associated with 
these accounts, then these should be removed from Mr Es credit file. I also think this 
is appropriate. Although I note that no such markers are visible on the file Mr E has 
shared with us, I cannot be entirely confident that no such markers are shown on 
other CRA files, or have been added since, so I will also include this in my award.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
NewDay acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision, but said it didnt intend to reply. 
Mr E replied to ask me to expand the scope of my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E said he accepted my decision about the aqua card in full. But he also wanted me to 
look at whether he should have been granted a marbles card in September 2015. He said 
hed like to get back all the interest and charges ever applied to that card, not just from the 
first credit limit increase. 
Mr E said when he first made this complaint in early 2021 this was one of many such 
complaints he made at the time, and he just got his dates muddled up. He thought the 
marbles account had been opened earlier, so NewDay would have said he was out of time 
to look at the decisions taken when the account was opened. 
Mr E said wed be able to see, from an email he sent us in October 2021, that he had 
realised then he should also have complained about the marbles card application. Mr E said, 
having read my provisional decision closely, he thought NewDay Ltd had admitted it didnt 
get any monthly credit report data for him before March 2016. So he thought it was clear that, just as the May 2015 and October 2015 increases were wrong, the approval of the 
marbles card in September 2015 must also be wrong. 
Mr E said he didnt want to cause me extra work, or delay my decision. But he thought the 
conclusion on his marbles application would be clear from the findings Id already made. And 
he said it would be unfair if he didn't ask for it to be looked at now, as it could make a big 
difference to the redress figure. He said if hed known that NewDay Ltd never accessed his 
regular credit report, then he would have asked for the account to be looked at from the 
start, not just from the first credit limit increase. 
Im sorry to have to tell Mr E that Im not able to add this point into his case now. Thats for 
two reasons. 
Firstly, it has been clear from the start that Mr E didnt include the initial lending on the 
marbles card in this complaint. And this position does appear to me to have been consistent. 
As late as October 2021, Mr E told us hed clearly missed this at the start, but he also 
indicated then that he wasnt asking us to go back to add this in. 
NewDay addressed the issue of Mr Es marbles card in its complaint response letter to him. 
But, because Mr E didnt then include this in his complaint to us, NewDay hasnt had an 
opportunity to expand on this reasoning, or to address any conclusions our service might 
reach on this lending. 
And secondly, a conclusion on the initial marbles card lending doesnt follow quite as simply 
from my existing findings as Mr E suggests. My findings on his limit increases were made on 
the basis that NewDay hadnt specifically requested credit file information on Mr E before 
those increases, and we know it wasnt receiving regular summary information on his credit 
file before March 2016. It should not be inferred from this that NewDay did not specifically 
request credit file information when Mr E asked it to open a new marbles account for him in 
September 2015. 
So I dont think Im able to simply add in this issue to Mr Es existing complaint now. I could 
not do so without significantly delaying a final decision in this case, which Mr E has said he 
doesnt want. And Im not clear that it would be fair to both sides to add this in now. 
For those reasons, I make no findings on whether or not it was appropriate for NewDay to 
open a new card for Mr E in September 2015. That will need to form the subject of a different 
complaint.
I still think Mr Es complaint about credit limit increases should be upheld, for the reasons I 
gave in my provisional decision. So Ill now make the award I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that NewDay Ltd must 
 Refund onto Mr Es aqua account, all interest and fees charged from May 2015, on
amounts above the limit of £1,300, which was in place prior to the May 2015 credit
limit increase on this card. It should do that from May 2015 to date.
 Refund onto Mr Es marbles account, all interest and fees charged from January
2016, on amounts above the limit of £900, which was in place prior to the January
2016 credit limit increase on this card. It should do that from January 2016 to date.
If there is any surplus after this money was refunded, that should be paid back to Mr E with 
8% simple interest applied. And if there are any late payment markers associated with these 
accounts, then these should be removed from Mr Es credit file.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman