DRN-3781883
The complaint
Mr I complains that Trading 212 Ltd placed restrictions on trading shares in companies he 
owned. He says he wasnt given any notice and that hes lost money because he couldnt 
trade.
What happened
Mr I has an execution only share dealing account with Trading 212. He had four holdings of 
US microcap penny stocks. He says Trading 212 restricted trading in the four stocks without 
giving him notice. And wasnt given any indication of how long the restriction would last. He 
cant buy any of the stocks and, for one of them, he cant sell either. Hes unhappy that 
Trading 212 has passed the blame to an intermediary; he says it should have been better 
prepared and that its failed in its duty of care to him.
Trading 212 said that an increase in the number of traders choosing to trade in these types 
of stocks had triggered concerns and investigations from regulators and liquidity providers. 
This led to its execution intermediary suspending purchases in these stocks. It said that, for 
one of the stocks, sales were also suspended, but this was lifted at the beginning of October 
2021. Trading 212 offered Mr I £25 as a gesture of goodwill, which he rejected.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think 
Trading 212 had any option to restrict trading, because the restrictions were put in place by 
its execution intermediary. He said that the terms and conditions allowed Trading 212 to 
suspend or remove instruments from its platform. For these reasons, he thought 
Trading 212s offer of £25 was fair.
Mr I didnt agree. He said, in summary, that he lost more than £200 because he couldnt sell 
his stock when it was showing a profit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for the 
following reasons:
Trading 212s terms and conditions say:
We shall have the right to Introduce new Financial Instruments and Market Hours for 
trading at the Trading Platform and to suspend and/or remove from the Trading 
Platform any Financial Instrument and Market Hours at our sole discretion. (5.12)
Im satisfied that, when Trading 212 restricted trading in the four US microcap penny stocks 
Mr I held, it acted in line with these terms. And Im satisfied Mr I would have been supplied 
with the terms during the account application process.
But, whilst Trading 212 acted in line with the agreed terms, I also need to be satisfied that 
treated Mr I fairly and reasonably.
Trading 212s execution intermediary suspended trading in the shares in response to 
unprecedented market conditions. In the circumstances, I find Trading 212 was left with little 
choice other than to stop accepting orders. Im satisfied it provided a reasonably clear 
explanation to Mr I; it said:
During the recent months, there has been unprecedented market activity and 
volatility worldwide, including in U.S. microcap penny stocks. These stocks are 
especially risky due to the lack of liquidity, public information, and extreme volatility. 
Many microcap companies are new and dont have any proven track record. That 
said, the recent trading frenzy has triggered concerns and investigations from 
regulators, and liquidity providers. 
When theres a sudden influx of orders for a certain microcap security, it triggers an 
investigation for market manipulation and could lead to a potential suspension of the 
stock. Even when theres no evidence for misconduct, brokers have to take care that 
the traded volumes are not disproportionate to the normal activity.
Based on the above, we are required to temporarily suspend the purchasing of penny 
stocks that are highly illiquid and have a market cap in the tens of millions. If we dont 
do so, we risk being suspended by both the relevant exchanges and market makers.
The explanation was similar to the Financial Conduct Authoritys statement issued a few 
weeks earlier which said:
Broking firms are not obliged to offer trading facilities to clients. They might withdraw 
their services, in line with customer term and conditions if, for instance, they consider 
it necessary or prudent to do so. Firms are exposed to greater risk and therefore 
more likely to need to take such actions during periods of abnormally high transaction 
volumes and price volatility.
In the circumstances, Trading 212 couldnt have provided Mr I with any notice of the 
restrictions, as that would likely have resulted in an increased volume of trading in a short 
period, which was exactly what the suspension was seeking to avoid.
I appreciate it will have been frustrating for Mr I to watch the price movements of the stocks 
he held without being able to purchase more shares  or, in the case of one of his stocks, 
not being able to sell them for several months. But, in light of the unprecedented market 
activity, I dont find Trading 212 acted unreasonably, or that it treated Mr I unfairly. It follows 
that I dont find it is obliged to compensate Mr I for any loss he feels hes made by not being 
able to trade the stocks.
Trading 212 offered Mr I £25 as a gesture of goodwill, which I consider to be a fair offer in 
the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that Trading 212 Ltd should pay Mr I £25.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman