DRN-3009003
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the settlement UK Insurance Limited (UKI), as his travel insurance 
provider, have offered in respect of a claim he made. Mr P is also dissatisfied by the level of 
service provided to him during the claims process.
What happened
On 5 March 2020 Mr P embarked on a long-haul trip, to visit family abroad. He had 
purchased a return flight for the trip, at a cost of £640.29 and was due to return to the UK on 
28 March 2020.
Mr P has said that during the trip there were daily changes in the rules and regulations in 
respect of Coronavirus in the country he was staying in, and this was causing some alarm. 
But his trip, staying with his family, continued.
However, around a week before Mr P was due to travel home, the flight provider made 
contact, because the flight, which had included a transfer through a third country, was 
cancelled as a result of the coronavirus pandemic.
Mr P has noted that for the rest of the week he attempted to secure another flight home, and 
was finally successful in booking one for 29 March 2020, a day after his original flight had 
been scheduled. The flight cost him £1,508.58, and he had to get a flight from one area of 
the country to another, then stay overnight, before boarding a flight with a transfer in another 
country, before arriving in the UK.
Shortly after returning home, Mr P made a claim under his travel insurance policy for the 
additional flight hed needed to purchase. Mr P said when he spoke to the advisor from UKI, 
they suggested the claim would be settled  for the cost of the flight, minus a £75 excess. 
But that settlement wouldnt likely be provided until May 2020.
Mr P said he submitted evidence he was asked to provide in support of his claim. And, he 
chased the matter a few times, after not receiving any settlement by May. He said it wasnt 
until July that he received a sum of £250 from UKI. Considering that the settlement amount 
sent to him was incorrect, Mr P contacted UKI.
UKI told Mr P that the settlement of £250 was correct. It said it had considered the claim 
under the section of the policy for delayed and missed departure. And that Mr Ps policy had 
a limit of £250 per insured person, for delayed departure. So, this is what was due to him. 
Mr P disagreed. UKI maintained its position but acknowledged there had been problems with 
how it had handled Mr Ps claim  noting that it hadnt told Mr P what section his claim would 
be considered under when he made the claim. It offered and paid Mr P £140 compensation 
for this mistake.
Mr P remained dissatisfied with UKIs position. So, he referred his complaint to this service 
for an independent review. On referring his complaint here Mr P said he thought that the 
cancellation and curtailment sections of his policy were more relevant to his claim than the 
missed departure section. And so UKI should have dealt with his claim under those sections 
instead. In addition to this, Mr P said his relative had made a claim and their claim had been 
settled for the cost of the flight, minus the excess. And he hadnt been told he wouldnt be 
entitled to the same.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that 
the cancellation and curtailment sections of the policy didnt apply to Mr Ps claim. She said 
this was because the cancellation section of the policy was only for cancellation of a holiday 
before the trip began  and Mr P was already on holiday when the issue occurred.
In respect of the curtailment section, our investigator said Mr Ps trip wasnt cut short, so the 
claim couldnt be considered under that section either.
Instead, the investigator said Mr Ps departure was delayed, because he had needed to 
purchase another flight. And despite this section of the policy excluding delays caused by 
flight cancellation, UKI had paid £250, which was the limit for delayed departure per insured 
person, under this section. So, she thought the settlement provided was fair.
Our investigator also said she thought the £140 compensation offered was reasonable, 
given the moderate impact not being told what section the claim would be considered under 
had caused.
Mr P didnt agree. He said the staff he had spoken to at UKI all thought the claim should 
have been covered in full, minus the excess. And he reiterated the settlement his relative 
had received when they made a claim under their insurance policy, with a different provider. 
Mr P also remained of the opinion £140 compensation wasnt fair either. 
Because Mr P disagreed, his complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. This is because Im satisfied 
UKIs settlement of Mr Ps claim and offer of £140 compensation is fair. Ive explained my 
reasoning for this below.
Ive reviewed Mr Ps policy documentation, to see what cover Mr P has under his travel 
insurance policy. Im aware that Mr Ps policy is divided into sections. And for a claim to be 
covered, the loss needs to have occurred because of one of the events listed in the policy 
booklet. If the loss hasnt occurred because of one of those events, then it isnt covered.
The sections relevant to this decision are sections A, B and C, which relate to cancellation of 
a trip, curtailment of a trip and missed or delayed departure.
Mr P feels his claim, for the cost of the additional flights he needed to purchase, should have 
more correctly been dealt with either under the cancellation section of the policy, or the 
curtailment section. So, Ive looked at these.
The cancellation section says it provides cover for cancellation, before the trip is due to start. 
And trip under the policy is defined as a journey that begins and ends at your home during 
the period of insurance Mr Ps holiday, or part of it (such as the flights), wasnt cancelled before his trip had started. Mr P was already abroad. So, Im satisfied that UKI hasnt acted 
unfairly by not dealing with the claim under this section. It doesnt apply to Mr Ps case.
The curtailment section is called Cutting Short Your Trip (after is has started). So, only 
applies when the trip has started, and the policyholder needs to come home early, because 
of particular reasons detailed in that section. But Mr Ps trip wasnt cut short, or effectively 
cut short in any way. Mr P was staying with his family and he didnt come home early. So, I 
also dont think UKI did anything wrong by not dealing with the claim under this section.
The only section left, that would potentially be applicable in the circumstances, is the section 
for delayed or missed departure. Mr P has said he considers this to be for when a 
policyholder has arrived at the airport for example, but the flight has gone, or it has been 
delayed and you need unexpected costs covering as a result. This is often what this section 
is for. But, UKI have considered Mr Ps delay of a day, to be a delayed departure, because 
he needed to stay abroad for one more day, because his flight had been cancelled and hed 
had to arrange another one. So, his return home was delayed.
Mr Ps circumstances wouldnt be considered a missed departure  because Mr P didnt 
miss the scheduled flight for the reasons set out in that section. But I can see why UKI has 
considered Mr Ps departure delayed. He had to wait an additional day to board a flight 
home.
This section of the policy provides £250 cover, per insured person. As UKI has accepted Mr 
Ps claim under this section of the policy, Im satisfied its fair for it to pay Mr P up to the limit 
of that section. As its done this, I dont require it to do anything more. 
To add to the above, the missed and delayed departure section of Mr Ps policy in fact 
excludes delayed or missed departure where this is because of a flight being cancelled by its 
operator. And it was due to the flight being cancelled that Mr Ps departure was delayed. But 
UKI hasnt sought to rely on this exclusion and has already paid Mr P the £250 policy limit. 
So, this doesnt change my outcome on this complaint. The provision of £250 is therefore 
fair, and UKI doesnt need to take any further action in relation to this claim.  
Mr P has said that one of his relatives, with a different travel insurance provider, received the 
cost of their additional flights, minus the relevant policy excess. But I cant consider other 
peoples policies here. I can only look at Mr Ps, and what is fair and reasonable based on 
the facts of this case. And Im satisfied the above is fair.
UKI has provided Mr P with £140 compensation in addition to the claim settlement, because 
of some poor claims handling that Mr P experienced. In line with the industry guidelines, UKI 
needed to have dealt with Mr Ps claim promptly and fairly. And it has a duty to provide 
guidance to the policyholder. 
UKI has accepted that it didnt provide the relevant guidance to Mr P. There were a number 
of occasions where Mr P spoke to UKI, and it didnt let him know the claim would be 
considered under the missed or delayed departure section of the policy. I think if UKI had 
provided this guidance, it would have meant less confusion and frustration for Mr P when he 
found out his claim would be paid up to the limit of £250. So, I do think its reasonable for 
UKI to compensate Mr P for this trouble and upset. 
But I do consider the £140 already offered in this respect to be reasonable. Mr P suffered a 
loss of expectation, after waiting four months for his claim to be settled. And I think £140 
fairly recognises the impact of this.
My final decisionGiven the above, my final decision is that UK Insurance Limiteds settlement of £250 in 
respect of Mr Ps claim is fair, as is the £140 compensation provided. And so, I dont require 
UK Insurance Limited to do anything more than this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman