DRN-1373653
The complaint
Mr R complains that Arval UK Limited overcharged him for damages to a car he returned at 
the end of a finance agreement.
What happened
Mr Rs finance agreement came to an end and his car was collected in May 2019 by a third 
party acting for Arval. The car was inspected and a number of areas of damage were 
identified. The inspector produced a report with photographs showing the damaged areas. 
Arval sent Mr R a bill for £869.78. Mr R didnt dispute there was damage, but he thought 
charges were excessive.
Arval responded to his complaint and explained that the car had been inspected by a trained 
British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) inspector. It said he had followed 
the BVRLA guidelines on what constitutes fair wear and tear and Mr R had only been 
charged for items which fell outside that. It reviewed the charges and set out why it thought 
the damage for which a charge had been raised went beyond fair wear and tear.
Mr R remained unhappy and so he brought his complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She went 
through the report and looked at each area of damage. She said that those items for which 
Arval had raised a charge fell outside the BVRLA guidelines for fair wear and tear.
She went on to say that Arval hadnt given labour rates or VAT charges as it didnt have the 
work carried out. The charges were to reflect the reduced value of the car. Arval wasnt 
required to mend the car, but it sold it on with the damage and therefore it expected to 
receive less than it would if it had been in a reasonable condition. 
Mr R didnt agree and said when the car was collected he wasnt told about the damage to 
the tyre. He thought Arval had expected the car to be in showroom condition and he asked 
that the complaint be considered by an ombudsman
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read the report from the inspector and examined the photographs and I can see there 
was significant damage to the car which clearly goes beyond fair wear and tear. The BVRLA 
guidelines set out what constitutes fair wear and tear in as objective manner as is possible 
and I am happy the inspector has followed that guidance.
I have also noted that Arval hasnt charged for quite a few areas of damage which it is happy 
to accept as being down to wear and tear. Although neither party has provided a copy of the 
agreement I am happy to accept that it contains the standard wording as regards damage 
and Mr R will have signed to accept he is responsible for the cost.When the agreement was offered to Mr R, Arval will have calculated the monthly payments 
to be made taking into account the likely value if the car at the end of the agreement period. 
This will have been based on it being subjected to fair wear and tear. It follows that the cars 
value will have been reduced by the damage and it is reasonable for Arval to seek 
recompense accordingly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman