DRN-2921476
The complaint
Mr O and Mrs R have complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited mis-sold a van 
insurance policy and as a result didn't pay a claim for their stolen trailer. 
Mr O is the principal policyholder and Mrs R is a named driver on the policy. Mrs R has 
taken the lead in dealing with this matter. So, for ease of reading, where I refer to her 
comments below those should be read as being in respect of both herself and Mr O.
Reference to Admiral includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs R bought a van policy from Admiral online, although she did speak with Admiral during 
that process. The policy renewed the next year. In March 2020 Mrs R claimed on the policy 
because a horsebox/trailer she was towing was stolen. Admiral refused Mrs Rs claim. It said 
the trailer was only insured on a third party basis so wasn't covered for theft.
Mrs R brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He didn't think 
Admiral had done anything wrong. Mrs R didn't agree so the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mrs Rs made a number of detailed points. Ive considered 
everything she said carefully. But in this decision I dont intend to address every issue raised 
but will instead focus on what I see as being the key outstanding issues at the heart of 
Mrs Rs complaint.
When Mrs R was applying for the policy online she rang Admiral to sort out some issues that 
had arisen. Ive listened to a call recording in which Mrs R told Admiral that her 
comprehensive cover needed to include towing. Admiral told her she would be fine to tow 
but:
the trailer would only be covered on a third-party only basis when its actually attached to the 
vehicle.
Mrs R replied:
Attached, thats fine, no problem.
Mrs Rs told us that when asking Admiral about fully comprehensive cover for towing she 
clearly meant she was also asking about fully comprehensive cover for the trailer being 
towed.
I understand Mrs R wanted to know if the trailer would be covered on a comprehensive 
basis. Admirals answer was that while she would be covered to tow, her trailers cover 
would be limited to third party only. I think Admirals answer was concise and direct. I don't 
think there was anything ambiguous or mis-leading in it. And if Mrs R didn't understand what 
Admiral meant by third-party only then she could have asked a follow up question. But she 
didn't, she said it was fine, there was no problem.
Mrs R said it was obvious that she was trying to cover the trailer on a comprehensive basis. 
And there was no reason for her to insure the van if the cover didn't extend to a trailer 
attached to it. But if that was the case, then Mrs R should have told Admiral she didn't want 
the cover when it told her the trailer would only be covered on a third party only basis. But 
she didn't say that, instead she said attached, thats fine, no problem. I don't think Admiral 
could have understood that Mrs R would interpret Admirals statement that the trailer would 
be insured on a third party only basis as meaning that it was actually insured fully 
comprehensively while attached to the van. And I'm satisfied that Admiral answered her 
question fairly and reasonably. So I don't think it mis-sold the policy.
Further, Mrs R's said that Admirals policy documents aren't clear that they won't cover 
trailers for theft as thats not specifically excluded. I acknowledge that the policy doesn't 
have a specific exclusion for damage or theft cover for trailers. But I don't think it needs one 
in order to be clear. The policy sets out what it does cover and under the theft section it says 
it will cover:
your vehicle
your vehicles standard accessories and spare parts whilst in or on your vehicle
Clearly, a trailer (or horsebox) isn't part of the vehicle and isn't a standard accessory or 
spare part. And the policy doesn't ever imply that it will cover trailers on a fully 
comprehensive basis. Indeed the only point at which the policy mentions a trailer is in the 
liability to other people section, which is clearly about claims made against Mrs Rs policy 
by third parties. So I'm satisfied that the policy is clear that it won't cover the theft of a trailer. 
It follows that I think it was fair and reasonable for Admiral to decline to pay Mrs Rs claim.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman