DRN-3202338
The complaint
Ms B complains about the time it took Barclays Bank PLC (Barclays) to provide her with a 
deed of postponement in connection with her property.
What happened
Ms B wanted to sell her property to a developer Ill refer to as S. Barclays held a second 
charge over the property. In order to complete the sale, S solicitors required Barclays to 
provide a deed of postponement. 
Ms B and her solicitor made several requests from 25 January 2021 for the deed of 
postponement by phone and email. However, Barclays didnt provide it until mid-May 2021.
Ms B says she has been very stressed by this matter. Shes concerned that house prices 
have increased in the area since she agreed to the sale, so she feels Barclays delays 
caused her to lose out financially. Thats because Ms Bs sale is conditional on S getting 
planning permission. So S wasnt in a position to apply for planning permission until after the 
deed of postponement was received. S applied for planning permission in August 2021 and 
the decision still hasnt been received. Ms B doesnt think the price she agreed with S will 
reflect the market value for the property when the sale eventually goes through. 
Barclays apologised for the delays and offered Ms B £300 in compensation for the stress 
and inconvenience they caused. However, it said it wasnt responsible for house prices 
going up in the area where Ms Bs property is based. So it wasnt prepared to compensate 
Ms B for this. Ms B remained unhappy, so she complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into what happened. He accepted that house prices in Ms Bs area 
have increased since she agreed to the sale, and that she might get more money if she were 
to sell her property on the open market now. However, he said that Ms B had agreed to the 
sale price knowing that S would have to apply for, and get, planning permission. So she 
knew that the price she accepted wouldnt necessarily reflect the market price at completion 
of the sale. He thought that the £300 Barclays have offered was a reasonable amount of 
compensation to resolve this complaint.
Ms B disagreed with our investigator. She says Barclays delays added several months onto 
the sale timetable, and she has had to live with the uncertainty of wondering if shell sell her 
property to S or not throughout that time.
Ms B has also told us that her finances had been substantially affected by the pandemic. So 
shed really hoped she couldve sold her property sooner. She said S had agreed to buy her 
property, along with those of her neighbours as it wanted to develop all three properties. It 
needed planning permission for that, and S wanted to put in one planning application for the 
whole development. It wouldnt do that until after Barclays had sent the signed deed of 
postponement. That meant Barclays delays meant that she came under pressure from her 
neighbours as she was holding up their property sales.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion our investigator has reached. Ill explain why.
Ms B complains that Barclays took five to six months to provide the deed of postponement. I 
appreciate how frustrating that delay was, and that she and her solicitor chased Barclays for 
the deed on a number of occasions.
 
However, looking at the relevant dates I can see that Barclays was only responsible for 
around four and a half months of delays (from 25 January 2021 until mid-May 2021). Having 
said that theres no dispute that it shouldve provided it sooner. So Im pleased to see that 
Barclays have apologised and offered to pay Ms B compensation.
Ms B thinks Barclays should give her more than £300 compensation given the stress this 
delay caused her. She says she lost her income during the pandemic, so Barclays actions 
meant her protracted house sale (as a result of needing to wait and see if planning 
permission is granted) was further delayed. Ms B has also told us that she was pressurised 
by her neighbours as a result of Barclays delay, as their house sales were tied up with hers.
In addition, Ms B is unhappy that she hasnt benefited from the increase in house prices in 
her area as a result of the sale she agreed with S. She says she thought shed got a good 
price for her property when she agreed to the sale in August 2020. However, the price she 
agreed isnt so good now. Ms B accepts that Barclays isnt responsible for this. But she says 
that if Barclays hadnt caused the delay she could have expected S to buy her next property 
sooner, when house prices were lower. She has told us that house prices in her area 
increased by 13% in the last year.
I understand the points Ms B has made and I dont underestimate her strength of feeling 
about what happened and the impact on her. However, Im conscious that Ms B knew when 
she accepted S offer for her property that she was unlikely to complete the sale of her 
property for a significant period of time. I say that because S had three months from 
exchange of contracts to apply for planning permission. S then had to wait for that 
permission to be granted, and there was no guarantee it would be. So Ms B always knew 
shed have to live with considerable uncertainty about the sale, and that house prices could 
go up or down in that time.
Taking the matter as a whole I think that £300 is a fair and reasonable amount to reflect the 
inconvenience Ms B was caused by Barclays delay and the impact it had on her. That 
amount is in line with what our service would usually recommend in cases where a 
consumer has been affected by an issue for a few months. I appreciate that Ms B has told us 
that she felt pressurised by her neighbours as a result of Barclays delays. But I think the 
£300 Barclays have offered is enough to cover that too. Having looked at Barclays notes of 
its contact with Ms B and her solicitor, I dont think this wouldve been reasonably 
foreseeable to Barclays.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Barclays Bank PLC should pay Ms B 
the £300 it has offered to resolve this complaint if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Laura ForsterOmbudsman