DRN-3058919
The complaint
Miss P is the executor for the late Mrs Ps estate. Miss P, on behalf of the estate of Mrs P, 
complains that Scottish Widows Unit Trust Managers Limited (Scottish Widows) informed 
her of the wrong value shed receive when selling Mrs Ps Individual savings account (ISA) 
holdings.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision issued on 11 August 2021. In my provisional decision I explained how I intended to 
resolve the complaint. I said:
In February 2020 Miss P called Scottish Widows to enquire about closing her late mothers 
ISA. Scottish Widows told Miss P shed receive either the value of the investment at the time 
of her mothers passing or the value at the point it was sold, whichever was higher. The 
value had dropped, so on this basis Miss P agreed to close the ISA and obtain the higher 
value.
When Miss P received the funds on 16 March 2020 there was a shortfall of £4175.56 from 
what she expected. Miss P asked why and was told shed previously been given the wrong 
information. Scottish Widows confirmed the value wouldve always been based upon the 
date the investments were sold. It apologised and initially offered Miss P £400 compensation 
for the disappointment and upset this had caused.
Miss P remained unhappy and complained, she felt Scottish Widows should honour the 
quote she was given over the phone in her original call. Scottish Widows explained it 
couldnt agree to what Miss P requested but did eventually increase its offer to Miss P from 
£400 to £500.
Miss P referred the complaint to our service, she felt that had the correct information been 
provided she wouldnt have sold the investment. Whilst our investigator looked into the 
complaint Scottish Widows offered to reinvest the funds into an Open-ended investment 
company (OEIC), which was where the investment wouldve been placed if it wasnt sold. 
But Miss P confirmed this wasnt possible as the funds were no longer available.
Our investigator felt the offer was a fair one  and that it was unfortunate Miss P no longer 
held the funds to reinvest.
Miss P accepted the sale of the investment was completed correctly  and that it was the 
initial advice from Scottish Widows which was the error. Had she been aware of the option to 
reinvest the funds into the OEIC earlier Miss P explained she wouldve done so, but that this 
offer had been made too late.
She asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its no longer in dispute that Scottish Widows made a mistake when initially informing Miss P 
of the ISA sale process. I agree this was an error on its part. Miss P has also accepted that 
Scottish Widows acted correctly when selling the investment at the price it did. The mistake 
was the information it provided before she made the decision to sell. So, the question now is 
whether the estates loss is greater than Scottish Widows current offer recognises.
I understand Miss P believes the loss amounts to £4175.56. She sold the investment based 
on the information Scottish Widows had given her and so feels it should honour the amount. 
But even if everything had gone correctly, the estate never wouldve received this difference, 
so it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Scottish Widows to pay this amount.
I appreciate there was some delay before Scottish Widows full offer was made, but I dont 
think it would be fair to expect it to do any more than what its already offered to do to. This is 
because its offer to reinvest the funds is a fair one and what I would have recommended in 
the circumstances.
I know Miss P no longer has the funds available to reinvest, and so Scottish Widows offer to 
invest the amount into an OEIC is sadly no longer possible. But that also means the estate 
has made use of the funds over this time - which wouldnt have been possible if they were 
still invested in an OEIC.
Im also aware of the offer Scottish Widows has made to compensate Miss P for the upset its 
mistake caused. Ive had to consider that the complaint is brought by the estate, not by    
Miss P in her personal capacity. When considering Scottish Widows actions, I can only 
investigate what impact those actions have had on the complainant.
Here, the complainant is the estate of Mrs P, as Mrs P had the relationship with Scottish 
Widows. Miss P, as an executor, can bring a complaint on behalf of Mrs Ps estate. But that 
unfortunately doesnt mean I can consider the impact Scottish Widows actions have had on 
Miss P directly.
So, whilst Im sorry to hear of the impact this mistake has had on Miss P, our service 
wouldnt be able to make any award or recommendation for that impact. I understand that 
Scottish Widows has made a revised offer of £500 to Miss P, its a matter for Miss P to 
decide whether to accept this offer.
I think Scottish Widows offer to reinvest the funds is a fair one, so I dont think it should do 
any more to resolve the complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further submissions they had before I issued my 
final decision. Scottish Widows provided no further submission, whilst Miss P provided 
further comments which Ill now address.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In doing so, Ive carefully considered the further representations made by Miss P.
Miss P has described convincingly how she wouldnt have sold the investment had she been 
informed correctly at the outset. This is something Ive already agreed with in my provisional 
decision and is why the offer to reinvest the funds is a fair one in the circumstance. 
Miss P reiterated that Scottish Widows revised offer was made later than it shouldve been. I 
agreed in my provisional decision that the offer was made too late for the estate to now 
make use of, as the funds had already been spent  but this also means the estate has had 
use of the funds during this time. 
Miss P has highlighted that she received no notification of Scottish Widows revised offer 
directly from Scottish Widows. This was because the revised offer was made whilst our 
service investigated the complaint, so it was communicated by our investigator. I dont think 
this has any bearing on the outcome of the complaint as Miss P was still informed.
Miss P has explained that she still has her portion of the funds available, but it wouldnt be 
fair to expect Scottish Widows to reinvest only part of the whole investment. This is because 
this never wouldve been an option had Miss P originally been informed correctly and the 
sale had not happened. Id only expect Scottish Widows to make up any potential loss if the 
estate was able to transfer the full amount back to Scottish Widows.
I know its disappointing that the outcome is not the one Miss P was hoping for  but I can 
assure her Ive considered the matter in detail and that given all the evidence, Im satisfied 
the outcome Ive reached is a fair and reasonable one in the circumstances.
I agree that Scottish Widows made a mistake that impacted the estate of Mrs P  and Im 
still satisfied the offer to reinvest the funds is a fair one in the circumstances. So, I still dont 
think Scottish Widows should do any more to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman