DRN-2430628
The complaint
Miss C complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A.has turned down a cancellation claim she made on a travel insurance 
policy.
Miss Cs represented by Mr C.
What happened
Miss C and a friend, who Ill call Miss S, booked a trip abroad. They booked parts of the trip 
in late June 2019 and their hotel on 17 July 2019. Miss C took out a travel insurance policy 
online at around 2pm on 20 July 2019.
Unfortunately, that evening, Miss C learned that Miss S had been diagnosed with a brain 
tumour and had been admitted to hospital. She underwent surgery on 31 July 2019. So Miss 
C and Miss S had to cancel their trip. Miss C made a cancellation claim on her travel 
insurance policy.
Mapfre turned down Miss Cs claim. It said given Miss C had taken out the policy on the 
same day Miss S was admitted to hospital, it thought shed likely known that she was 
experiencing symptoms and that she was undergoing tests. So it thought Miss C had been 
aware she might need to make a claim when she took out the policy. It said the policy was 
designed to cover unforeseen events.
Miss C was unhappy with Mapfres decision and so Mr C asked us to look into her complaint. 
He said that Miss S had suffered from migraines for many years which Miss C had known 
about. But he said she hadnt known there was a serious problem until Miss S father told 
them about Miss S diagnosis a few hours after Miss C had bought the policy. And he said 
the final part of the trip had only been booked a few days before Miss C took out the 
insurance, which showed she thought she was going on the holiday.
Our investigator didnt think Miss Cs complaint should be upheld. He accepted that it was 
unlikely Miss C had known that Miss S migraines would lead to her eventual diagnosis. But 
he noted Miss S headaches had been getting worse. Shed seen a GP in the build-up to 
Miss C taking out the policy and tests had been planned to investigate the cause. He felt it 
likely that Miss C had known that Miss S migraines were worsening and that investigations 
were planned. So he felt Miss C likely did know about the condition which caused the claim 
when she took out the policy. And he felt it was fair for Mapfre to turn down Miss Cs claim. 
He explained that if Miss C could gain permission to access Miss S medical records, Mapfre 
might be able to look further into the claim.
Mr C disagreed on Miss Cs behalf. He provided evidence of text messages between Miss C 
and Miss S on 20 July 2019 which he said showed Miss C hadnt known about the diagnosis 
until after shed bought the policy. He said itd been he whod suggested Miss C take out 
insurance on that day  and he hadnt known Miss S was going to have any tests. Miss S 
had seen a doctor earlier that week and had been assured it was just a migraine. The online 
insurance application didnt include any questions about the health of a travelling 
companion, only questions about Miss Cs own health. He didnt think it was reasonable to 
ask Miss C to provide Miss S medical history. And Miss S insurer had paid her claim at 
least a year ago.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Mapfre to turn down Miss Cs claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive looked carefully at the policy terms; the 
available evidence and the circumstances of the claim to decide whether Mapfre handled 
Miss Cs claim fairly.
It seems both Miss C and Mapfre accepted that the policy terms our investigator relied on in 
reaching his assessment are the correct ones. So Ive also relied on the same version of the 
policy in making my decision. The policy includes a section called Health Conditions. One 
of these conditions says:
This policy will not cover any claims under section A - Cancelling and cutting short your 
holiday, that result directly or indirectly from any medical condition you knew about at the 
time of taking out this insurance or when booking a trip, and that affects:
  Someone travelling with you who is not insured under this policy; 
Subject to the terms and conditions, such claims may only be covered if the patients doctor 
is prepared to state that at the date you bought this policy or of booking a trip, he/she would 
have seen no substantial likelihood of his/her patients condition deteriorating to such a 
degree that you would need to cancel your trip. If the doctor will not confirm this, your claim 
is not covered. In the event of a claim the doctor must complete the medical certificate on 
the claim form.
Insurance policies are designed to cover unforeseen and unexpected events. Generally, 
insurers wont cover claims which are made because of something a policyholder knew 
might lead to a claim when they took out a policy. In this case, Mapfre concluded that when 
Miss C took out her travel insurance policy, she most likely knew that Miss S was having 
investigations and that the results could mean that their trip would have to be cancelled. So 
Ive looked carefully at the available evidence to decide if this was a reasonable conclusion 
for Mapfre to draw.
Mr C acknowledges that Miss C had known for many years that Miss S suffered from severe 
headaches. Hes also told us that Miss S had seen her GP shortly before Miss C took out the 
policy because her headaches were getting worse. While hes said the GP told Miss S her 
headaches were just migraines and advised her to take painkillers; he also told us that Miss 
S father was worried enough that he asked the doctor to refer her for investigations. Given 
the doctor agreed to do so, it appears they were also aware of the possibility that there might 
be an underlying cause of Miss S headaches. It seems these investigations were arranged 
with the local hospital very promptly. 
Ive looked closely at the text messages between Miss C and Miss S dated 20 July 2019 to 
establish, what, if anything, it seems likely Miss C wouldve known when she took out the 
policy. One message (from around an hour and a half after Miss C bought the insurance) says: Are you going to get the results of that scan today? Miss S said she had and that the 
doctors didnt think there was much to worry about. Miss C replied: Ok well thats a relief at 
least.
Mapfre considered the text messages and said that they confirmed the scan had been 
arranged before Miss C took out the policy and that Miss C had known about it. I dont have 
the messages from the few days before the texts Ive seen to establish whether this was the 
case. But I dont think it was unreasonable for Mapfre to conclude the messages suggested 
that Miss C knew Miss S was having a scan on 20 July 2019 and that she was being 
investigated for the cause of her headaches. I think though, on the evidence to hand, that 
the messages do seem to support Mapfres conclusions.
I acknowledge that Miss C couldnt have known what Miss S eventual diagnosis would be 
before she had the tests. But Mr C accepts Miss C knew about Miss S migraines. And it 
does seem more likely than not, given the text messages, that Miss C knew that Miss S had 
seen her GP with worsening symptoms and that shed been referred for a scan to look into 
the cause. The migraines were a symptom of the underlying condition which ultimately led to 
the cancellation of the holiday. And I think Miss C would likely have been aware that the 
investigations could reveal a more serious diagnosis which might lead to cancellation, even if 
she didnt think it was likely. So in these circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Mapfre 
to turn down her claim.
Most insurers wont ask questions about the health of a travelling companion when a 
policyholder buys insurance, because their pre-existing conditions simply arent covered. 
And the fact Miss S insurer paid her claim doesnt mean Mapfres bound to pay Miss Cs. 
Ive considered what Mr Cs said about encouraging Miss C to take out the policy when she 
did. But the policy specifically refers to what a policyholder knew when they took out the 
insurance. And the available evidence does suggest that Miss C knew at least that Miss S 
migraines had been getting worse and likely that shed been referred for tests that day.
Overall, I think it was fair and reasonable for Mapfre to turn down Miss Cs claim. But if Miss 
C can obtain evidence from Miss S doctor which supports her claim, its open to her to send 
this to Mapfre to consider further. If shes unhappy with the outcome of any further review, 
she may be able to bring a new complaint to us about that issue alone.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman