DRN-4133227
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy with the amount of interest shes paid on her mortgage with Santander 
UK Plc. She says that, despite frequently asked Santander for help, it didnt offer her a lower 
interest rate and she considers that she has been in mortgage prison. 
What happened
Miss F took out a mortgage with Abbey (now Santander) in March 2008. She borrowed 
around £320,000 over 25 years on an interest only basis. 
The mortgage was initially taken out on a two year tracker deal, with a starting interest rate 
of 5.64%. At the end of the initial term, the mortgage reverted to Santanders Standard 
Variable Rate (SVR). 
Santanders contact notes show that in 2012 to 2013, Miss F contacted Santander because 
she was having some difficulty meeting her mortgage repayments. 
In 2016, Miss F applied to Santander for a further advance, but this was turned down on the 
basis of affordability. 
In 2017 Miss F contacted Santander because she was again experiencing some difficulty 
making her repayments. After missing one payment in August 2017, she then made two 
payments the following month, thus getting back on track straight away.  
In 2019, Miss F again experienced some difficulty making repayments. She didnt make her 
contractual monthly payment in both May and September 2019, however on both occasions 
she made double payments in the months that followed (June and October 2019). 
Then, from January 2020, Miss F was persistently in arrears.  
In May 2021 Santander moved Miss F onto a different rate  its follow-on-rate. This rate 
has similar flexibility, but is lower than the SVR. Around the same time, Miss F complained 
about the way the mortgage had been sold and also about the amount of interest shed been 
paying over the years.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. It said the mortgage had been sold via a broker and 
so any concerns about the sale would need to be directed to the broker. Regarding the 
interest Miss F had paid, it said that it was the customers responsibility to ask about any 
different rates that are available. 
Miss F complained to Santander again in January 2023. She said she had been struggling 
for much of the mortgage and had contacted Santander several times about this, since 2012. 
Santander upheld the complaint in part. It said that from January 2020, its financial support 
team should have made Miss F aware of any products with a lower rate of interest, that were 
available to her. 
Santander calculated that had Miss F moved onto the lower rate in January 2020 instead of 
May 2021, she wouldve paid £4,346.32 less interest and it paid this money into Miss Fs 
account. Santander said it wouldnt backdate the interest any further, because Miss F hadnt 
requested a different rate before that time and it didnt have to proactively promote new 
rates. 
Santander said it would also amend Miss Fs credit file to reflect the correct amount of 
arrears from January 2020, taking account of the refund of interest. It also paid £350 to 
Miss F as compensation to reflect the impact of it having not switched the rate sooner than it 
did. 
Miss F still thought Santander shouldve done more about the interest she was paying going 
back further and she referred her concerns to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
An investigator here issued an opinion on the case. They said that under the rules that set 
out what we can and cant look at, we could only consider the interest charged and 
action/inaction by Santander in the previous six years. They didnt think Santander needed 
to do anything further, because the onus was on a customer to request a different rate and 
Miss F hadnt done that. 
The investigator noted that Miss F had contacted Santander on several occasions to make 
manual payments, but they didnt think this meant that Santander should have done anything 
further. They also thought the compensation offered was sufficient to recognise the impact of 
what had gone wrong. 
Miss F didnt agree and asked for her case to be escalated to an Ombudsman. She said she 
had repeatedly asked for a better deal by telling Santander that she was struggling. She also 
said her credit file hadnt been updated as had been promised. 
The case was passed to me to decide. 
I asked another investigator to contact Santander to request further information about the 
further advance that was declined in 2016 and the contact in 2017, including any available 
call recordings. I also wanted to know why Santander didnt backdate the interest refund to 
when Miss F began experiencing financial difficulties in 2019.
Santander said it didnt have any call recordings available. It said that in 2016 Miss F had 
met all of the mortgage repayments, suggesting she wasnt struggling to meet the 
repayments on her existing mortgage. For 2017, it said that the payment issues were short 
term in nature, such that no arrears would have been reported to credit reference agencies. 
In terms of why the interest refund was backdated to January 2020 and not when Miss F 
experienced difficulties in 2019, Santander said this was because the follow-on-rate only 
became available to customers in arrears from January 2020.
I asked the investigator to share this further information and my provisional thoughts about 
the complaint, with Miss F. I said that I too thought I could consider six years back  from 
when Miss F first complained about the interest she had been charged (2021). 
I said that I wasnt currently minded to say that Santander needed to do anything further, 
because the start point is that the onus is on a customer to request a different rate and I 
couldnt see that Miss F had ever done this. 
I said that neither of the events in 2016 or 2017 meant that Santander ought to have 
proactively offered Miss F a different rate in the context of forbearance. I also said that 
although I wasnt necessarily persuaded by what Santander had said about the reason why 
it backdated the interest calculation to January 2020, the payment issues Miss F faced 
during 2019 all seemed short term in nature, at the time. So I didnt think there was a need for Santander to go any further back than it had already done. I also said I thought the £350 
compensation was reasonable and in line with our approach to compensation awards. 
The investigator provided an update to Santander and asked Miss F to provide any further 
representations before I went on to make a final decision.
Miss F reiterated that she had experienced difficulties from 2012. She said that Santander 
had made reference to her having called to speak to them in 2017, so she thought there 
were call recordings. She said that her application for further borrowing was a clear sign she 
was struggling. 
Miss F didnt agree that the payment issues had been short term. She said she had been in 
arrears and asked for help on multiple occasions. She said shed paid £72,000 in extra 
interest and it wasnt acceptable that she had only been given a better rate when she asked 
in 2021. She also said her credit file hadnt been updated.
The investigator asked Santander for clarification of what it had (or hadnt) done regarding 
Miss Fs credit file. It responded to say that it had worked out the position Miss F wouldve 
been in with the lower repayments and had updated the credit file accordingly. It supplied 
evidence of this. 
The investigator also asked Miss F for a recent copy of her credit file. She replied to say that 
she could see there had been some changes. She reiterated how she felt strongly that 
Santander ought to have offered her a better rate when she had asked for help at various 
times. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties are aware and in agreement that I can look at the action/inaction of Santander 
in the six years leading up to the complaint Miss F raised in May 2021. 
Miss F feels strongly that she has paid more interest than she should and that, had 
Santander enabled her to pay less interest (as she thinks it should have done), she would 
now be in a much better position than the one she finds herself in.
Santander has already conceded that it should have offered Miss F a lower rate before it did 
and it has paid Miss F an amount of money to reflect the unnecessary additional interest that 
she did pay. It also paid her £350 to reflect the impact of this. 
I therefore need to decide whether this represents fair compensation or whether Santander 
needs to do more to put things right. This turns on whether there is a point in time before 
January 2020 where Santander ought to have enabled Miss F to be paying lower interest. 
Having considered everything very carefully, I dont think this is the case and I am not going 
to say that Santander needs to do anything more than it already has. I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment to Miss F, but I hope that my explanation helps her to understand 
why Ive come to this conclusion. 
Before I explain why, I want to set out my role as an Ombudsman. It isnt to address every 
single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given 
the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I 
think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue to keep in 
mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when 
doing that.
It would only be appropriate for me to uphold this complaint and say that Santander ought to 
have enabled Miss F to pay less interest, if one or both of the following were true:
- Miss F asked Santander for a different/lower rate and it didnt give the request fair 
consideration.
- Santander ought to have proactively offered Miss F a rate switch as a forbearance 
measure (potentially as part of a package of measures), given what it knew about her 
circumstances. 
Miss F requesting a rate
It is not in dispute that Miss F did not ask Santander for a different rate before January 2020 
(the date it has already provided redress to). The start point is that the onus is on a customer 
to ask for a different rate  in general there is no obligation for a lender (outside of financial 
difficulties in certain circumstances) to proactively offer an existing borrower a different rate.
Miss F has said that she repeatedly asked for a better deal by telling Santander she was 
struggling. While I appreciate Miss F told Santander she was struggling and she would 
perceive this as asking for a new interest rate, this isnt in fact the case. Asking for a new 
rate is different to someone saying they are finding it difficult to maintain their mortgage 
payments - they are not one and the same thing. It would be up to Santander to decide what 
forbearance may be suitable for Miss F and this would not always mean a new interest rate. 
So, Ive gone to think about whether the evidence suggests that Santander ought to have 
proactively offered Miss F a rate switch as a forbearance measure. 
Was there a time before January 2020 when Santander ought to have proactively offered 
Miss F a different rate?
It is not the case that a lender needs to proactively offer a borrower a different interest rate at 
the first sign of any kind of financial difficulty. In the absence of a borrower requesting a 
different rate, the circumstances in which a lender should be thinking about proactively 
offering a different rate are typically where a borrower has experienced difficulty for a period 
of time but then their situation has stabilised.
In this type of situation, a lender offering a different rate as forbearance (potentially 
alongside other things such as capitalisation of any arrears), can help a borrower to be able 
to meet their repayments and get back on track. 
When sharing my provisional thoughts about the case, I referenced three periods of time 
within the six years I can look at, where Santanders records indicate that Miss F was or may 
have been experiencing some kind of financial difficulty. These are:
- 2016 when Miss F applied for further borrowing;
- 2017 when Miss F had some difficulty making some repayments; and
- 2019 when Miss F was in and out of arrears.
Regarding the application for further borrowing in 2016, Miss F has I think suggested that the fact she applied for the further borrowing was a clear indication that she was struggling 
financially at the time and that Santander ought to have offered her a different rate. 
However, someone applying for further borrowing doesnt necessarily indicate theyre 
struggling with their finances. I havent seen any evidence to indicate to me now (or to 
Santander at the time) that she was struggling in such a way that it wouldve been 
appropriate for Santander to offer Miss F a different rate on her existing mortgage.
The application for new borrowing was declined on the grounds of affordability. But this 
simply means that the Santander didnt think the additional borrowing would be affordable for 
Miss F. The mortgage account statements show that Miss F was making full repayments 
around this time, so I do not consider there was any reason that Santander ought to have 
proactively offered Miss F a new rate. 
Regarding 2017, Miss F has said that Santander told her she had called in 2017 and so it did 
have call recordings. However, Santander has told me it doesnt have call recordings. It 
seems to me that the reference it made to Miss F about calls in 2017 may have come from 
its account/contact records (which I have seen), rather than any call recordings it had 
located. Given the passage of time, it is not surprising that Santander no longer has call 
recordings from this time. 
In terms of Miss Fs circumstances at the time, I still consider that the evidence suggests the 
difficulties she was facing making repayments appeared to be short-lived. I say this because 
after missing one payment in August 2017, she then made two payments the following 
month, getting back on track straight away. I still dont think it was necessary for Santander 
to proactively offer Miss F a different rate, in these circumstances. 
Regarding whether Santander ought to have offered Miss F a rate in 2019, when she 
experienced further difficulties making her repayments. As set out in the provisional thoughts 
that I shared, the issues Miss F was having appeared to be short term in nature. She didnt 
make her monthly payment in both May and September 2019, however on both occasions 
she made double payments in the months that followed (June and October 2019). 
Looking at the account history, its not until January 2020 that the account becomes 
persistently in arrears. And this is the point that Santander already carried out its refund 
calculation back to. 
Bearing in mind everything Ive said, I still dont consider that there was a point before 
January 2020 where Santander ought to have proactively offered Miss F a different rate. I 
appreciate that Miss F feels strongly that she was in a mortgage prison. However, I dont 
agree and I consider the steps Santander has already taken to put things right are sufficient.
As set out in my provisional thoughts, I still think that £350 represents a fair amount of 
compensation for the impact of Santanders error and is in line with our approach to 
compensation awards. 
Finally, regarding Miss Fs credit file, Santander has provided evidence that it has updated 
Miss Fs credit file to reflect the position as it would have been had she been making the 
lower payments from January 2020. As such, Im satisfied that Santander has done what it 
said it would do, regarding Miss Fs credit file.
If Miss F still considers this not to be the case, she should raise this with Santander in the 
first instance. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint about Santander UK Plc, because 
Im satisfied that the steps it has already taken to put things right, are sufficient.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman