DRN-3093997
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Vanquis Bank Limited failed to update her credit file after a Debt Relief 
Order (DRO) ended. 
What happened
Mrs L had a credit card with Vanquis. In 2016 a DRO in relation to Mrs Ls debts was 
approved and Vanquis recorded an unsatisfied default on her credit file. 
The DRO ran for 12 months after which Mrs L was discharged from her obligation to repay 
the debts included. Mrs L says Vanquis shouldve updated her credit file to reflect the end of 
the DRO. 
Recently, Mrs L complained to Vanquis and it agreed to amend her credit file to show the 
default as satisfied. Vanquis said it hadnt been notified the DRO had ended so didnt update 
Mrs Ls credit file. 
Mrs L referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Vanquis had dealt with Mrs Ls complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mrs L asked to appeal and said Vanquis initially told her it had no record of her DRO. As Mrs 
L asked to appeal her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator contacted The Insolvency Service to ask what happens at the end of a 
DRO. As the investigators said, The Insolvency Service has confirmed it doesnt notify 
creditors when someones DRO comes to an end. 
So whilst I understand Mrs L feels Vanquis shouldve marked the default as settled in 2017 
(when her DRO ended), Im satisfied it didnt receive notification before she got in touch. 
Mrs L told Vanquis the DRO was complete and it took steps to update her credit file so the 
default was recorded as settled. Im satisfied thats the point Vanquis was notified the DRO 
had completed. As a result, I dont agree it delayed making the necessary amendments to 
Mrs Ls credit file. 
Mrs L advised our investigator that Vanquis initially told her it was unaware of the DRO when 
she contacted it. Ive looked at Vanquis contact notes going back to 2016 and I can see the 
DRO is featured. I can also see Vanquis took steps to close the credit card and record a 
default in 2016, when notified the DRO was in place. So Im satisfied Vanquis was aware of 
the DRO in 2016 and took steps to act accordingly. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs L but as I havent found Vanquis made a mistake or treated her 
unfairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman