DRN-3697428
The complaint
Mrs P complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited and their decision to limit the 
settlement amount she could receive following her claim for a damaged TV on her home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs P held a home insurance policy, underwritten by Admiral. This policy included cover for 
the contents of Mrs Ps home. So, when her TV was damaged, she contacted Admiral to 
make a claim. Admiral accepted Mrs Ps claim, but limited the settlement amount she could 
receive to £1,000 as they felt the TV was a high-risk item that hadnt be specified on Mrs Ps 
policy schedule. Mrs P was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint. 
Mrs P didnt think Admiral were fair to limit the settlement she could receive as she didnt 
think it was made reasonably clear to her in either the original sales call, or the documents 
she received, that she needed to specify her TV as a high-risk item. And she explained if it 
had of been, she wouldve specified it. So, she thought Admiral should pay her a settlement 
that reflects the full value of her TV.
Admiral responded and didnt agree. They listened the original sales call between 
themselves and Mrs P. And they thought the advice they gave on this call was clear and 
correct. They also thought it was made reasonably clear in Mrs Ps policy terms and 
conditions that a TV would need to be specified on her policy schedule and so, they thought 
they acted fairly when limiting the settlement amount. Mrs P remained unhappy with this 
response, so she referred her complaint to us.,
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They didnt think the policy terms 
and conditions were reasonably clear, as several electronic items were described when 
detailing what qualified as a high-risk item, but not a TV. And they didnt think Mrs P was 
given any indication on the original sales call, or the follow up paperwork, that a TV would 
need to be specified. So, they didnt think Admiral were fair to limit the settlement and though 
Admiral should pay the full value of the claim, less any excess and additional premiums Mrs 
P may have paid had the TV been specified. They also thought Admiral should pay 8% 
statutory interest on the increase in settlement from the date of the original settlement offer 
to the date of payment.
Mrs P accepted this recommendation. But Admiral didnt. They maintained their belief it 
shouldve been reasonably clear to Mrs P that a TV would fall under the audio-visual 
category mentioned in their terms and conditions. And they didnt think it would be 
reasonable to expect them to list every item that fell under this category. So, they maintained 
their position that it was reasonable to limit the settlement amount Mrs P was offered, in line 
with the terms and conditions related to unspecified high-risk items. As Admiral didnt agree, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Ive thought about the terms and conditions of the policy at length to decide whether I think 
Admiral acted in line with these when deciding to reduce the settlement offer. And if I think 
they did, I must then also be satisfied that they acted fairly by doing so. And having done so, 
I dont think they have on this occasion.
Ive seen the definition of a high-risk item, which states the following:
The following personal belongings owned by you and your family.
-Any collectible articles which are rare or unusual
-Musical instruments or audio-visual, photographic or sporting equipment
-Computers, laptops, mobiles phones, tablets and electronic notebooks
-Jewellery, watches, pearls, precious metals or precious stones
-Pictures, prints or works of art, Stamp, coin or other collections.
And I can see the terms and conditions explain that for any items that fall into the categories 
above, the settlement will be capped at £1,000 unless they are specified within the policy 
schedule. Having looked at the policy schedule, I cant see that a TV is specified.
So, I understand why Admiral believe they acted within the terms of the policy when 
reducing the settlement. But for Admiral to fairly rely on these terms, I need to be satisfied 
that the terms make it reasonably clear to Mrs P that her TV would need to be specified. And 
I dont think they do.
I understand why Admiral believe a TV falls into the category of audio-visual equipment as a 
TV does produce both sound and picture. But in the terms above, directly after audio-visual 
equipment is mentioned, it goes on to list several items that are audio-visual in the same 
way a TV would be. Yet a TV isnt stated. I think this creates a certain level of confusion and 
I dont think its unreasonable for a consumer to expect a TV to be stated within this list 
alongside the other electrical appliances.
I appreciate Admiral dont agree. And they make the point that it would be impossible for 
them to list every item that falls under the more generic examples that provide. But I think a 
TV is a very common appliance that almost every home they insure is likely to have. 
Considering several appliances that qualify as audio-visual are listed together, and all of 
these items are portable, I dont think its unreasonable for me to say not listing a TV could 
create the impression a TV doesnt need to be specified as it isnt portable in the same way.
Further to this, I can see from Admirals own notes detailing the conversations Mrs P held 
with them that she did make a point of clarifying exactly what classed as a high-risk item. 
And again, the items Admiral confirmed were all portable in nature, whether they be 
electronic or piece of jewellery. And crucially, following these conversations, I can see that 
Mrs P has specified several items that were mentioned by Admiral in these calls. So, it leads 
me to be believe that had Admiral made it reasonably clear a TV needed to be specified, 
then Mrs P wouldve done so.
So, while I can understand why Admiral believe the settlement limit is applicable in this case, 
I dont think the terms and conditions, nor the information Mrs P received in calls with 
Admiral directly, were clear enough to allow Mrs P to have fair and reasonable knowledge that the TV she owned shouldve been specified. And so, it follows that I dont think Admiral 
acted fairly when they reduced the settlement offer provided to Mrs P.
Putting things right
As I dont think Admiral acted fairly, Ive then thought about what I think Admiral should do to 
put things right. Any award or direction I make is intended to place Mrs P back in the position 
she shouldve been in, had Admiral acted fairly in the first instance.
In this situation, I think if it had been made reasonably clear to Mrs P within the terms and 
conditions, or in some other way, that the TV needed to be specified, then she would most 
likely have done so. I think its fair for me to make this assumption as I can see she has 
specified several pieces of jewellery, following clear instructions from Admiral.
And if Mrs P had specified the TV as a high-risk item, she wouldve been offered a 
settlement amount that reflected the full value of the TV she owned. So, I think Admiral 
should settle the claim, paying Mrs P the full value of her TV, less an excess that is 
applicable under the terms of the policy and any increase in premium that may have been 
caused by the specification of the TV.
I also think that had Admiral acted fairly, they wouldve done this when they initially 
processed Mrs Ps claim. As they didnt, the claim was disputed and so, Mrs P didnt receive 
the settlement amount when she shouldve done. So, I think Admiral should pay 8% 
statutory interest on the settlement amount over £1,000, to recognise the length of time Mrs 
P has been without the settlement unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint about Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Settle Mrs Ps claim in full, without any limitation, less any applicable excess and 
premium increases that may have resulted from the TV being specified; and
Pay 8% statutory interest on the settlement amount that exceeds £1,000 from the 
date the original settlement offer was made to the date of the new settlement 
payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman