DRN-3441132
The complaint
Mrs K complains about the level of service received from Nutmeg Saving and Investment 
Limited when they closed her Lifetime Individual Savings Account (LISA).  
What happened
In July 2021 Nutmeg wrote to Mrs K saying that due to her being a United States Tax 
Resident (USTR) they would no longer service her account. This was a decision which 
affected all Nutmeg customers who are a USTR. 
Mrs K complained to Nutmeg saying she shouldve been told earlier about the USTR issue 
which wouldve allowed her and her husband to organise their finances differently. Nutmeg 
said their terms and conditions allowed them to make changes as long as 30 days notice 
was given, which is what they had done. 
Nutmeg acknowledged the surprise of the change and as a gesture of goodwill offered to 
cover some of the costs should the account be transferred or closed. After some time the 
account was closed and Nutmeg paid Mrs K £7,149.83 which covered her withdrawal 
penalty for the LISA. 
Remaining unhappy about what happened Mrs K brought her complaint to our service where 
one of our Investigators looked into what happened. They didnt think Nutmeg had done 
anything wrong by no longer offering a LISA to Mrs K, and that they thought the 
compensation paid was reasonable for what happened. Mrs K didnt agree saying she felt 
more compensation was due, so the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K has provided a lot of information about the complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
she feels about what happened. I want to assure Mrs K that Ive read and considered 
everything thats been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised some of 
what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service.
The terms and conditions of the account allow Nutmeg to make changes or amendments as 
long as they give customers reasonable notice of the change. Looking at what happened I 
think the terms and conditions were applied fairly and reasonably by Nutmeg when they said 
they would no longer service a LISA because of customers being a USTR. So I dont think 
Nutmeg took any action they werent entitled to do. But its clear that what happened 
affected Mrs K.
Mrs K found out that Nutmeg had stopped opening new accounts for customers with USTR 
in 2018. She feels that Nutmeg at the very least shouldve given her a heads up that there 
might be a problem. I can certainly see why Mrs K feels this way because had this of 
happened her and her husband couldve organised their long-term finances differently. 
However its not uncommon for businesses to change account requirements for new account 
holders, or to stop offering products while keeping existing accounts open; as happened 
here. So whilst, with the benefit of hindsight, letting Mrs K know back in 2018 wouldve 
helped her, I dont think Nutmeg had any obligation to let her know of the change for new 
account holders at that time. And I dont think that in 2018 Nutmeg knew with any certainty 
they would at some time close all accounts for USTR customers. 
Mrs K is also unhappy with the customer service she received when dealing with the issue. 
During the process Nutmeg offered some information about other potential LISA providers 
who might take the account, but it turns out these other providers couldnt help Mrs K. I can 
see why Mrs K was unhappy about the information she was given but I think its important to 
say that Nutmeg doesnt offer advice so they couldnt make any recommendations. I think 
Nutmeg were trying to be helpful in offering Mrs K a potential solution to the issue. 
Because another LISA provider couldnt be found the funds were withdrawn. As a gesture of 
goodwill Nutmeg paid Mrs K £7,149.83 which was the withdrawal penalty for the account. 
Mrs K doesnt feel this is sufficient compensation for what happened when thinking about the 
long-term effects of the account closure. 
With the starting point being that I dont think Nutmeg made any mistakes in taking the action 
they did, I think this is a fair and reasonable way of resolving the complaint. I think it also 
accounts for any customer service issues Mrs K was unhappy with.
Having carefully considered everything that happened, Im satisfied Nutmeg acted fairly and 
reasonably when dealing with Mrs Ks account closure. Thats not to say that Mrs K wasnt 
affected by what happened, as she clearly has been, and I see her frustration. But I dont 
think there were any errors made by Nutmeg and Im happy the compensation was 
reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman