DRN-2289564
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy with how esure Insurance Limited has dealt with her claim on her car 
insurance policy after an accident. She wanted her car repaired not written off, she doesnt 
agree with the valuation and salvage figures esure has given her and shed like
compensation for the distress and inconvenience she says esure has caused her.
What happened
Miss P claimed on her car insurance in April 2019 following an accident. Esure said Miss Ps
car was uneconomical to repair, so it was written off as a total loss. Miss P disagreed with
the final valuation esure gave her and so thought her car was economical to repair. She also
queried the salvage figure esure gave her for the car.
When Miss P complained to esure, it didnt uphold her complaint. She says she was left with
no choice but to accept esures settlement offer.
Miss P then complained to us. But in the meantime, she says there were delays in esure
paying its settlement offer and a cheque it sent her bounced. So she complained about
these things as well.
The investigator who looked at Miss Ps complaint didnt uphold it. He thought it was
reasonable for esure to write off the car and he thought its valuation was fair. He didnt think
esure had done anything wrong in how it dealt with the salvage part of Miss Ps claim. And
he thought esure had resolved the problems Miss P had with the cheque fairly.
Miss P disagreed and so her complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision 
on 24 September 2020 in which I explained why, although I agreed with most of our 
investigators findings, I intended to uphold one part of Miss Ps complaint.
Miss P has given me some comments on my provisional decision. Esure hasnt responded 
to it. Miss Ps complaint has now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Ive decided to 
uphold one aspect of Miss Ps complaint, about the distress and inconvenience esures 
cheque bouncing caused her. But I dont uphold any other aspect of Miss Ps complaint. 
In my provisional decision, I explained my reasons by going through each of Miss Ps main 
complaint points:
Writing off the car
Miss P thinks esure shouldve repaired her car, rather than writing it off.
In looking at this issue, my starting point is Miss Ps car insurance policy. Where 
theres damage to her car, esure says it will:
pay to repair the damage; or
replace whats been damaged if its more cost effective than repairing it; or
pay to settle Miss Ps claim.
It also says it will decide which method to use to settle Miss Ps claim. And Miss Ps 
policy says if esure settles Miss Ps claim as a total loss, her car will belong to esure.
These are all standard terms in car insurance policies. And the main point here is that, 
under Miss Ps policy, it is esure  and not Miss P  who has the right to decide how to 
settle her claim. But esure must make its decision fairly and reasonably. So thats what Ive 
looked at here.
I can see esure relied on an engineers report, which said the car was a total loss, to reach 
its decision that it was uneconomic to repair. I can also see the estimated repair costs 
(which I know increased by around £150 over time) were a significant proportion of the 
cars likely value (Ill come on to the question of value shortly). I dont think esures decision 
to write off the car in reliance on its engineers report was unfair or unreasonable in Miss 
Ps case and I think what it did was in line with her policy terms.
Valuation
Miss P doesnt think esures valuation of her car is fair.
Again, Miss Ps car insurance policy is my starting point here. It says esure wont pay more 
than the market value of her car at the time of loss (less the excess).
The policy goes on to say market value is the amount Miss P could reasonably have 
expected to sell her car for on the open market immediately before her accident. It says its 
assessment of the value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar 
age, condition and mileage at the time of accident. And it says this value is based on 
research from motor trade guides including Glasss, Parkers and CAP. Finally, it says 
market value may not be the price Miss P paid when she bought the car.
Assessing the value of a used car isnt an exact science. And it isnt my role to decide a 
value for Miss Ps car. Its to decide if the valuation esure gave her was fair and 
reasonable. And in making that decision, I think the valuations given in the motor trade 
guides are persuasive, because theyre based on extensive nationwide research of likely 
(but not actual) selling prices. And the valuations these guides offer can often be adjusted 
to include optional extras, such as those Miss P says her car had.
I can see esure wrote to Miss P giving her valuations from the above three trade guides, as 
well as another one called Cazana. And the valuation it gave Miss P was within the range 
of those four valuations. Our investigator also checked three of these guides at the time he
sent out his view (and he says, where possible, he included the extras Miss P said her car 
had, such as heated seats, leather trim and a media pack). The valuations he got were 
broadly similar to esures.
Looking at all of this, I think esure acted fairly and reasonably and in line with Miss Ps 
policy terms in giving the valuation it did.
SalvageMiss P is unhappy her car was moved to a salvage yard once it was declared a total loss. 
But, as Ive said, once esure settled Miss Ps claim as a total loss her car was its to deal 
with as it chose.
And I can see esure wrote to Miss P asking her if she wanted to retain her cars salvage, 
subject to a 35% deduction (or £1,885). In the circumstances of this complaint, I think that 
was the right thing to do. So I think Miss P couldve kept her car and got it repaired herself 
if shed wanted to (although I understand thered have been a shortfall in repair costs that 
she wouldve had to meet, so I can see why this might not be her preferred option).
Weve asked esure about the salvage figure it gave Miss P of 35%. It says this is the 
average figure it achieves, as it can get up to 60% salvage for some cars and less for 
others. It says its impossible to know exactly what it would achieve without selling a 
damaged car, but it believes the 35% deduction in Miss Ps case was fair. Miss Ps car was 
assessed as a category N total loss, meaning it wasnt structurally damaged. In these 
circumstances, I dont think the salvage percentage esure offered Miss P was 
unreasonable.
Delays and bounced cheque
Miss P says esure delayed in sending her a settlement cheque and, when she paid it 
into her account, it bounced.
Miss P says she was told by esure shed be sent a cheque but, when she called a week 
later to find out where it was, was told it hadnt been issued. Around a week after that, she 
got the cheque. Three days later, the cheque bounced. Miss P says she called esure at 
least three times and sent an email when she found out the cheque had bounced. I 
understand esure electronically transferred the settlement amount to her within a day or so 
of Miss P first calling in about the bounced cheque.
Our investigator thought that, in apologising for the issue and making an electronic 
payment transfer quickly, esure had fairly resolved this part of Miss Ps complaint. In part I 
agree with him because I dont think esure delayed unreasonably in sending the cheque 
(though clearly it couldve been quicker). But I do think it wouldve been worrying and 
annoying for Miss P to find out the cheque had bounced. And, from what she says, she 
was clearly put to the trouble of making some calls and sending an email to sort things out 
because of it. So, even though esure did make an electronic payment transfer quickly 
when it became aware of the problem, I think Miss P did have some unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience. And for this I intend to direct esure to pay Miss P £150 in 
compensation.
Ive looked at all of Miss Ps other comments about her complaint but they dont change 
my current views on it. I know, for example, Miss P wanted esure to reimburse her for 
various costs shes incurred following the accident. But because from what Ive seen so far 
(and other than in relation to the bounced cheque) I dont think esure has treated Miss P 
unfairly, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask it to pay these costs.
In response to my provisional decision, Miss P hasnt given me any new evidence. But she 
has said again why she thinks esure has treated her unfairly. Miss P says she wanted to 
pay for repairs to her car herself. She says she asked for it not to be moved to a salvage 
yard and that, by ignoring her request, esure forced her into a situation where she had to 
accept its settlement cheque. Miss P says if esure had given her a correct valuation, it 
wouldve known her car was repairable.But, for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I dont think it was unfair or 
unreasonable for esure to write off, rather than repair, Miss Ps car. And I think it acted in 
line with her policy terms in doing so. Also, as I explained in my provisional decision, I 
think esures valuation was fair and reasonable and also in line with her policy terms. And , 
in relation to paying for repairs herself, as Ive said, I can see esure did offer Miss P the 
salvage.
Having taken into account all of Miss Ps comments, they still dont change the conclusions 
I set out in my provisional decision, which now form part of this final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Miss Ps complaint in part and direct esure Insurance 
Limited to pay her £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her 
after its cheque bounced. I dont make any other award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman