DRN-2978183
The complaint
 Miss B complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva). Her complaint is about the 
amount offered by Aviva to settle her claim under her home insurance policy for damage to 
her property from a leak, as well as how Aviva handled her claim.
Aviva uses agents to assess claims and repair damage covered by policies. References to 
Aviva includes these agents. 
What happened
 Miss B took out a home insurance policy with Aviva in early December 2020. Later that 
month there was an escape of sewage from an upstairs toilet in the bathroom at Miss Bs 
property, leaking through the floor into the kitchen below. The damage affected the bathroom 
floor, kitchen ceiling and walls as well as the kitchen floor.
Miss B contacted Aviva but was unhappy at the way her claim was handled by Aviva, 
including being contacted by an investigator who Miss B felt was questioning the legitimacy 
of her claim. Miss B said that her previous policy was in fact with Aviva.
Aviva agreed to cover the claim and their assessor (S) considered the damage and offered a 
cash settlement of £2,951 (less the policy excess of £450). Miss B wasnt happy the offer 
would be enough to repair the damage, so she asked Aviva to delay payment while she 
obtained her own estimate. Miss Bs contractor (M) provided an estimate of £7,014 to repair 
the damage. Miss B discussed the situation with S, who didnt change their offer but did offer 
to appoint contractors to carry out the work.
Miss B then complained to Aviva who increased the offer by including a 20% contingency, 
taking the offer to £3,541 (less the excess). Aviva also confirmed the alternative of their own 
contractors to carry out the work. Miss B was still unhappy and complained to this service.
 
Miss B felt her honesty had been questioned when she first made her claim. Also that Aviva 
hadnt properly assessed the damage and the scope of work needed, and that the offer 
wouldnt cover the repair costs. She was also concerned whether any work carried out would 
be to an acceptable standard. Miss B was also unhappy at the length of time taken to deal 
with her claim and the impact of the nature of the damage to her property.
Our investigator upheld Miss Bs complaint. Although he thought Aviva had acted fairly in 
offering either a cash settlement or to appoint contractors to carry out the work, he thought 
they hadnt included the cost of replacing the damaged flooring, so hadnt made a 
reasonable offer. He said Aviva should increase their offer to £4,306 (less the excess) to 
include the cost of the damaged flooring. He also thought offering a contribution towards the 
cost of replacing all the flooring that included the kitchen (so it would be of consistent 
appearance) was fair. While he didnt consider Aviva had acted unreasonably in how they 
had handled Miss Bs claim, he said they should pay Miss B £150 for trouble and upset. 
Aviva didnt accept the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. Aviva said that the cost of the flooring was included in the cash settlement offer 
and didnt agree with the £150 for trouble and upset.
In my findings I agreed with the investigators conclusion that Aviva had acted fairly in 
offering a cash settlement or to appoint contractors to carry out the work. I also agreed with 
their conclusions that Aviva had acted fairly in offering to make a contribution to the cost of 
replacing all the flooring with the kitchen and that Aviva should pay Miss B £150 for trouble 
and upset. But I disagreed with the investigators conclusion that Aviva hadnt included the 
cost of replacement flooring and therefore hadnt made a reasonable offer.
 
Because I disagreed with the investigators view on whether Avivas offer included the 
replacement flooring, I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to 
consider things further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. My role is to decide whether Aviva has 
acted fairly towards Miss B.
Miss Bs first point of complaint is about the cash settlement offered by Aviva, the scope of 
the work and the offer for Aviva contractors to carry out the work. On the latter point, Ive 
noted Miss Bs policy, under the heading Settling Claims, states:
We can choose to settle your claim by
Replacing
Reinstating
Repairing
Payment
If we can repair or replace property but agree to make a cash or voucher 
settlement we will only pay you what it would cost us to repair or replace it.
These terms mean Aviva can offer Miss B a cash settlement or for their contractor to 
reinstate or repair the damage. I also think it reasonable that, with access to a network of 
contractors, it would cost Aviva less than Miss B using her own contractor.
On the scope of the work, Ive looked at the reports from S and M. Both appear to include 
similar elements, consistent with the damage caused by the incident. On the question of 
whether S included the replacement flooring, Ss report specifically includes the need for 
replacement of the vinyl floor (bathroom) and the laminate floor (kitchen) in the cash 
settlement figure of £2,951 (and at figures not dissimilar to the equivalent figures from M). So 
I agree with Aviva that its included.
 
Ive noted that Aviva increased the offer to £3,541 and offered a contribution towards the 
cost of replacing all the flooring on the floor with the kitchen, if its not possible to match the 
replacement kitchen flooring to other areas. This offer was made even though Miss Bs 
policy doesnt include the optional cover for matching of this nature. I think thats fair. Aviva 
hasnt said what level of contribution it would be willing to make, either by value or by 
proportion. In similar cases, we would suggest that 50% is a reasonable figure.
 
Ive noted Miss Bs reservations about using Aviva contractors to carry out the work. But the 
figure is based on Ss professional assessment of the work required. Its also reasonable for 
Aviva to base these costs on what it would cost them to carry out the work, which are likely 
to be lower than those Miss B would be likely to obtain. Id expect Any contractors appointed by Aviva to be appropriately experienced and qualified  and separate from S, who are 
assessors. I think thats fair and reasonable.
Turning to the question of compensation, Ive considered carefully what Miss B has told us 
about the impact of how her claim was handled. Aviva told us that when Miss B took out her 
policy in December 2020, it wasnt a direct renewal and she previously had a policy with 
them that lapsed in December 2019. So they treated the policy taken out in December 2020 
as new business. Aviva have said that in those circumstances they needed to validate the 
claim, to establish that the leak wasnt something that might have started when they werent 
the insurers. This approach was also confirmed to Miss B when she first lodged her claim. 
That may have been why Aviva appointed an investigator to carry out an initial assessment 
of the claim, leading Miss B to think that she was under some suspicion.
 
Miss B maintains that her policy preceding the one she took out in December 2020 was also 
with Aviva. I asked Aviva and Miss B for further evidence on this point. Miss B provided a 
policy reference for her earlier policy. Using this Aviva were able to confirm that it was in fact 
with them. But it was taken out through a broker, whereas the following policy was taken out 
with them directly. Aviva said this meant the policies were recorded on two different systems, 
one of which was no longer in use. Which is why they treated the second policy as new 
business and followed their standard approach in such circumstances, to validate a claim of 
the nature lodged by Miss B coming so soon after the policy came into effect.
Ive considered these points. While they explain why Aviva sought to validate the claim, I 
think Aviva should have been able to determine that both policies were with them, 
irrespective of how they were taken out. I think it reasonable for Miss B to have assumed 
that Aviva would have linked the two policies.
 
Ive then considered the impact on Miss B. Looking at the timeline from the date Miss B 
lodged her claim, it appears that the initial validation of the claim added a couple of weeks to 
the process. It also led to Miss B feeling that she was under some suspicion, causing her 
some anxiety - although Ive noted that Aviva did tell her when they first contacted her that 
they would need to validate the claim. Ive concluded that Aviva should have done things 
differently in the initial handling of Miss Bs claim. I think £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience would be a fair and reasonable amount of compensation.
my provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Miss Bs complaint. I 
intend to require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Offer Miss B the option of a cash settlement figure of £3,541 (less the policy 
excess) or to have their contractors carry out the necessary repair and 
reinstatement work.
Make a contribution of 50% towards the cost of replacement flooring on the floor 
with the kitchen (should it not be possible to match the replacement kitchen 
flooring to that of the adjoining areas)
Pay Miss B £150 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Miss B didnt respond to my provisional decision by the date requested.
Aviva responded to say they noted the provisional decision confirmed their actions regarding 
settlement were correct and in line with the terms of the policy, also that it confirmed that 
their offer was inclusive of the replacement flooring for the bathroom and kitchen.
However, Aviva were concerned with the compensation offer. While they acknowledged they 
should have a more robust system to recognise all polices, whether taken out through a 
broker or direct, they said their validation process would have been the same, regardless of the route through which the policy was taken out. Thats because all escape of water claims 
are considered by an investigator to allow validation to take place, and that this wasnt a new 
process. Aviva maintained that at no time did they insinuate that Miss B was under 
suspicion.
Aviva also noted that their offer to contribute towards any unmatched flooring was also more 
than Miss B was entitled to, as she hadnt taken out that element of cover. Therefore, in 
Avivas view, this offer should be deemed as a compensatory gesture. As Miss B hadnt 
taken out this element of cover, she would be receiving a benefit that she wasnt entitled to 
as she hadnt paid the additional premiums that would have been due. That would, in Avivas 
view, be unfair on those policyholders that had paid additional premiums for that element of 
cover.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld.
Ive considered carefully the response from Aviva. On their first point on the compensation 
offer and that the validation approach would have been the same, whichever route the policy 
had been taken out, Im not persuaded. The case notes from Aviva indicate that they 
followed the validation process they did because of doubt over whether Miss B had a policy 
with Aviva in the period shortly before the incident, so there was doubt (as the notes state) 
the claim happened during cover with Aviva. Nor was it made clear to Miss B that the 
validation process was the same regardless of the route through which she had taken out 
her policy. In these circumstances, its understandable that Miss B thought she was under 
some suspicion, and that she felt anxiety as a result. As Aviva have acknowledged that they 
should have a more robust system to recognise all polices (regardless of route) I havent 
changed my view on £150 compensation being fair and reasonable.
  
On the second point. I recognised that Avivas offer to contribute towards the cost of 
unmatched flooring, should it be necessary, did go beyond the policy terms and conditions 
as Miss B hadnt taken out this element of cover. But it was Avivas decision to make that 
offer, so Im not persuaded by the argument that in doing so it was unfair to other 
policyholders who had taken out the cover. I also note that Aviva havent made any 
comment on the suggested 50% level of contribution set out in my provisional decision. Nor 
do I think that it changes my conclusion that Aviva should have done things differently in the 
initial handling of Miss Bs claim, as Ive set out in response to Avivas first point. 
Taking all these points into account, then I havent changed my view to uphold Miss Bs 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Miss Bs complaint. I require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Offer Miss B the option of a cash settlement figure of £3,541 (less the policy 
excess) or to have their contractors carry out the necessary repair and 
reinstatement work.
Make a contribution of 50% towards the cost of replacement flooring on the floor 
with the kitchen (should it not be possible to match the replacement kitchen 
flooring to that of the adjoining areas)
Pay Miss B £150 in compensation for her distress and inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman