DRN-3285041
The complaint
Ms C is complaining that Cynergy Bank Limited wont refund transactions she didnt
authorise.
To be clear, this complaint only concerns transactions from Ms Cs personal account.
What happened
Ms C was called by a fraudster posing as a BT cyber security engineer on 
30 October 2020. Shes said she was told her internet had potential security issues. 
To reassure Ms C they were genuine, they sent an email from BT security.
Ms C recalled that she was asked to click on a link and log on to Cynergys online 
banking to check her money was safe. She was asked to do this a few
times during the call. At times, when she tried to log on, she couldnt access her 
accounts. Instead the screen would go blank or show a BT cyber security page.
Ms C was called by the same engineer the following day. She explained she was told 
the work to clear the cyber threats had 5% more to finish. Ms C recalled having 
similar problems accessing her accounts as the day before. 
Ms C also remembered that she was asked to download software on her mobile 
phone. Again, this was to check her internet.
Ms C managed to access her accounts later on 31 October 2021, after the call 
ended. She realised two withdrawals had been made from her personal account  for 
£25,000 and £15,000. There were also significant sums withdrawn from her business 
accounts, which are outside the remit of this decision.
Ms C reported the fraud on the same day. Cynergy later recovered £176.57 of the 
money taken from the personal account. They declined to refund the remaining 
losses  it said they were caused by Ms Cs negligence in authenticating the 
transactions by providing the online banking secure authentication codes.
On 11 January 2022, I sent my provisional findings explaining why I thought the 
complaint should be upheld. Ms C accepted this. Cynergy acknowledged my findings 
and said it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking into account that neither party has submitted anything further, Ive not changed my 
mind about the outcome of this complaint. For completeness, Ive included my provisional 
findings below:
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Ms C isnt liable for 
payments she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to 
comply with the terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe.
Cynergy hasnt disputed that these payments were unauthorised. Thats because Ms 
C didnt authorise Cynergy to act on the payment instructions by entering and 
submitting the required security information. Indeed, Ms C wasnt aware of the 
instructions, as it seems the fraudster duped her into providing remote access to her 
computer and using her online banking.
I dont think Ms C failed with intent to comply with her terms and conditions or keep 
her details safe. She genuinely believed what she was doing was to sort out her 
internets security issues.
Ive gone on to consider whether Ms C failed with gross negligence. In other words, 
whether she was significantly careless; acted so far below what a reasonable person 
wouldve done; or seriously disregarded an obvious risk.
Ms Cs internet is provided by EE, part of the BT group. So I can see why a call from 
a BT engineer sounded plausible. Ms C explained she had doubts but was sent an 
email from BT Security which reassured her. Most people dont realise how 
fraudsters can cleverly make emails look like theyre from someone theyre not. So 
Im not surprised Ms C ultimately trusted who she was talking to. I think lots of people 
wouldve done.
Ms C explained how she was told her internet had been hacked and attempts to steal 
her funds were imminent. She was instructed to click a link and log on to her online 
banking to check her money was safe. While Ms C wasnt aware, it seems this was 
part of how the fraudsters remotely accessed her computer and online banking.
Given Ms Cs belief that she was dealing with someone from a trusted company with 
expertise in cyber security, I can understand why she followed these instructions. Im 
mindful that most people arent familiar with remote access software (which is 
legitimately used to help people with IT problems). So they dont appreciate how 
someone can manipulate what youre seeing and take control of anything you 
access.
With access to Ms Cs online banking, the fraudsters wouldve needed the following 
to make the payments:
oUsing the Cynergy app on Ms Cs registered device, scan the authentication 
image on the online banking session;
oOn the app, enter the memorable PIN or complete biometric verification;
oThe app then displays a 6-digit authentication code that needs to be 
entered on Ms Cs online banking session.
Ms C acknowledged she went through these steps a few times to log on, but shes 
said she didnt do this to make any payments.
But Im not persuaded the fraudsters couldve done this without her involvement. 
Cynergy has provided video evidence that the app displays a blank screen if 
someone tries to access it remotely. And its difficult to see how they couldve still used the camera on their device to scan the image in combination with accessing the 
app on Ms Cs device.
From Ms Cs testimony and our experiences dealing with similar scams, I think its 
likely Ms C was persuaded to go through these steps to secure her internet and 
stop her money being stolen. Its clear the fraudster manipulated her screen, given 
her reports of struggling to log on and seeing a BT cyber security page. So I think 
its likely they couldve misled Ms C into going through these steps, without revealing 
it was connected to making payments. Indeed, given that these steps are materially 
the same as those for logging on, its possible that they duped Ms C to go through 
them under the guise of checking that her money was safe.
In these circumstances, I dont think Ms C was significantly careless. Shed been 
cleverly manipulated into thinking she was doing the right thing to keep her money 
safe.
In saying this, I recognise that the app gives some details of what youre 
authenticating. But, Im mindful of how many times Ms C wouldve used this process 
for different purposes in the past, and that it seemingly doesnt ask you to interact 
with the details. Instead, you just enter your PIN or use biometric verification. So I 
can see how she may have missed these details in the moment  instead being on 
auto-pilot to follow the advice of who she thought was a trusted professional.
Its also worth reflecting how most people arent experts in this field. So they wont 
know enough about how to legitimately protect their internet to question what theyre 
being told to do by a supposed expert.
Ive thought carefully about how many times Ms C must have followed this process 
that day. But Ive weighed this up with the several hours that the scam went on for. 
So this wouldnt have been relentless questioning that could have raised alarm bells 
 its more likely Ms C was bored into submission. Moreover, if Ms C was 
adequately persuaded to take these steps once, I can see how she wasnt seriously 
concerned about doing the same thing again. Afterall, she hadnt any knowledge this 
was connected to payments. It follows that I dont think it meant she seriously 
disregarded an obvious risk.
On this basis, I dont think Ms Cs actions fell so far below what a reasonable person 
wouldve done that it amounts to gross negligence. So I conclude Ms C isnt liable for 
the transactions and Cynergy need to put things right. 
Cynergy ought to have refunded this sooner  and thats caused Ms C distress over 
whether shell get a significant amount of money back. So I also award £250 to 
reflect her non-financial losses.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is to uphold Ms Cs complaint and order 
Cynergy Bank Limited to:
Pay Ms C the total of the unauthorised transactions from her personal account 
(£40,000), less any amount already returned (which I understand was £176.57).
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).Pay £250 for Ms Cs distress.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman