DRN-2974196
The complaint
Mrs O complains about Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great lakes) for its decision to decline 
her claim for damage to her sofa. She wants Great Lakes to settle her claim. 
What happened
Mrs O purchased two sofas in July 2017. At the time of purchase, she also purchased an 
extended warranty with Great Lakes. This warranty covered accidental staining or damage 
sustained to the sofa within the warranty period of 5 years. 
In January 2021, Mrs O contacted Great Lakes and submitted a claim. This was because the 
top inner edge on all arms of her sofas had become flattened. 
Great Lakes sent out technicians to inspect the sofa on two occasions. They each concluded 
that there was a slight loss of resilience in the material of the armrests, but that this was 
consistent with wear and tear and had happened over time. 
Great Lakes therefore declined the claim. 
Mrs O complained and Great Lakes sent her its final decision letter in April 2021. It did not 
uphold her complaint and relied upon the warranty terms which set out that damage which 
occurred over time was not covered.
Mrs O was not happy and contacted us. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They considered that the evidence available 
was that the damage had occurred over time and was not due to a fault in the sofas and so 
Great Lakes had applied the terms of cover fairly. They did not ask Great Lakes to do 
anything further. 
Mrs O did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs Os upset in relation to Great Lakes decision. It is clear from the 
photographs that she has taken good care of her furniture and that she feels that the 
flattening of the armrests is from a defect in the furniture. 
She has explained that the flattening has occurred on all arms of the sofas, despite the 
levels of use differing on each sofa. She therefore thinks that the material must be defective 
to have flattened despite a range of levels of use.
I understand her view, however I agree with the investigators conclusion.  
This is because the evidence available does not show a structural defect, or a defect which 
has occurred suddenly, such as to be covered by the warranty. The evidence shows that the 
flattening has occurred over time, and the expert technicians considered this was consistent 
with wear and tear. Without an expert view opposing this evidence, or giving another 
explanation for the flattening, I cannot say the technicians view is wrong.
Damage caused by wear and tear, or which happens over time is explicitly excluded from 
cover in the policy documentation which was provided to Mrs O at the outset. 
I therefore think that, based on the available evidence, Great Lakes has acted in line with the 
agreed and accepted policy terms and has made its decision reasonably. 
Consequently, I do not think that Great Lakes has done anything wrong and I do not uphold 
the complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mrs O, but I hope it explains my reasons for 
reaching the decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mrs Os complaint and do not ask Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman