DRN-3193956
The complaint
Mrs T complained that National Westminster Bank Plc declined her application to port her 
mortgage she held jointly with her ex-husband to a new property. She said she had to get a 
new mortgage with a different lender and incurred an early repayment charge (ERC) with 
NatWest.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it here. 
Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
In moving house, a borrower pays off their old mortgage with the proceeds of the sale. 
They also, and separately, apply for a new mortgage to fund buying the new property. A 
lender will consider the new application on its own merits. If its prepared to grant a new 
mortgage, it will then consider whether to port across the old product  if the terms of the 
old product allow it. These are two separate decisions. If a lender isnt prepared to grant 
a new loan, then porting cant happen, and so the mortgage product ends with the old 
loan; depending on the product terms, an ERC may be payable. Looking at the 2018 
mortgage offer I think it was made sufficiently clear that while porting was a feature of the 
mortgage product there were conditions attached
I appreciate Mrs T feels NatWest was being unfair. But it isnt my role to tell lenders 
whether to lend  or how much to lend - to particular consumers. Lenders are able to use 
their commercial judgement to decide how much, if anything, to lend to consumers. My 
role is to ensure such judgement is applied fairly and reasonably; it isnt to substitute my 
judgement for the banks. In this case, NatWest correctly and fairly applied its lending 
criteria to Mrs Ts application and she didnt pass its internal credit scoring system. It 
follows that Im satisfied NatWest didnt act unreasonably in being unwilling to take 
Mrs Ts application forward.
Its not in dispute that the ERC was set out in the mortgage offer that Mrs T accepted 
when she took out the mortgage product in 2018. For the avoidance of any doubt, Im 
satisfied that the ERC was set out clearly and prominently in the mortgage offer. And the 
ERC was applied in line with the terms that Mrs T agreed to. As the mortgage was repaid 
before 31 March 2021, NatWest was entitled to apply an ERC.
For these reasons, although I understand Mrs Ts frustration, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman