DRN-2491334
The complaint
Mr G complains about the quality of a new car which was supplied to him through a hire 
agreement with Lex Autolease Ltd.  
What happened
In March 2020 Mr G leased a new car through a 48 month hire agreement with Lex. Mr G 
paid an initial rental payment followed by monthly payments of £630. 
Mr G explained that after entering into the lease agreement, the car has had ongoing issues 
with a rattling sound.
Repairs were attempted but these werent successful in the first instance. Mr G was without 
the car for several weeks whilst the issue was investigated. Ultimately, Lex agreed to an 
early termination of the agreement. It also offered to pay compensation of £350.
Mr G wasnt happy with the offer. He felt that Lex should be refunding his rental payments 
because he hadnt been able to use the car. He complained to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he car wasnt of satisfactory quality and that 
Mr G had suffered a loss of enjoyment in driving a courtesy car which wasnt comparable to 
the car he had ordered. The investigator said that Lex should refund 5% of all rental 
payments made by Mr G and refund his advance rental payment pro rata for the time 
remaining in the agreement.
Mr G didnt agree. He said hed been without the car for 4 months and wanted a larger 
settlement. He also said hed incurred additional costs because the courtesy car wasnt an 
electric car.
Lex said it agreed with the outcome. It also said the car had now been successfully repaired 
and that Mr G had collected it from the garage. But it was still willing to offer early 
termination of the agreement.
Our investigator looked at everything again. He was satisfied that Mr G had incurred extra 
costs and recommend that Lex refund these as well.
Lex agreed with the outcome. But Mr G didnt, so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lex has already agreed to an early termination of the agreement because the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.  So, I wont be focussing on this aspect. Instead, Ill look at whats a fair 
settlement. 
I can see that Mr G was without his car for several weeks. During this time, he was provided 
with a courtesy car, but it wasnt of the same type or specification as the car hed ordered. I 
think its fair to say that Mr G suffered a loss of enjoyment as a result. Ive taken account of 
the fact that he was kept mobile throughout, but I still think a percentage of his rental 
payments should be refunded to reflect loss of enjoyment. I think 5% is a fair percentage. 
The refund should be applied to all rental payments made from inception of finance to the 
date when Mr G collected the car from the garage following successful repair. 
Mr G has explained that the car he ordered was a hybrid, but the courtesy car he was 
provided with wasnt. He says hes incurred fuel costs as a result. Ive looked at the evidence 
that Mr G has provided and whilst I think its fair to ask Lex to refund some of his fuel costs, I 
dont think he would have used the hybrid car in electric mode all the time  especially not on 
longer journeys  so Im awarding 50% of the fuel costs. These should be refunded from 
inception of finance to the date when Mr G collected the car from the garage following 
successful repairs.
I understand that there was more than one attempt to repair the car and that on one 
occasion Mr G had to travel some distance to collect it. Im satisfied that Lex should refund 
the cost of Mr Gs flight in this respect. 
I appreciate that Mr G feels that he should be receiving a larger settlement. I understand that 
hes had a disappointing experience with the car. However, I dont think its reasonable to ask 
Lex to refund all of the rental payments, because Mr G was provided with a courtesy car 
throughout and Lex has offered fair compensation of £350 already. 
Putting things right
Lex has already offered early termination and compensation of £350. As Ive explained 
above, I think Lex needs to do more by refunding 5% of Mr Gs rental payments (for a 
specified period of time) and refunding some of the costs Mr G has incurred. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Lex Autolease Ltd must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr G
Refund 5% of rental payments from the inception of finance  to the date when the car 
was collected by Mr G following successful repairs
Refund Mr Gs advance payment pro rata
Refund 50% of Mr Gs fuel costs from the inception of finance to the date when the 
car was collected by Mr G following successful repairs
Pay compensation of £350 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman