DRN-3287868
The complaint
Mr E complains about Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (QFL) and the 
fee they charged him following a successful claim for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance 
(PPI).
What happened
In March 2019, Mr E authorised QFL to pursue a claim for mis-sold PPI against lender B on 
his behalf. In May, lender B confirmed Mr E had PPI present on one of his accounts. So, 
QFL returned to Mr E and asked that he complete a PPI questionnaire to support his claim. 
This was returned in June, and QFL submitted a full claim to lender B the same month. 
On 12 December, lender B wrote to QFL requesting more information before deciding the 
claim. But on 18 December, lender B wrote to both QFL and Mr E upholding the claim and 
offering Mr E a refund of £83.14 after tax had been deducted.
Neither QFL nor Mr E say they received this offer letter. Instead, in January 2020, QFL 
received lender Bs letter dated 12 December 2019, so they asked Mr E for more information 
which he provided and was forwarded to lender B.
No further action was taken until March 2021, when QFL received a spreadsheet from lender 
B which confirmed Mr Es claim had been upheld, and refund paid, in December 2019. So, 
they invoiced Mr E for their fee. 
Mr E initially disputed whether this fee was due, as he couldnt remember receiving a refund 
and QFL were unable to provide an offer letter to support their invoice. But after discussions, 
Mr E paid the invoice under duress. And he raised a complaint.
Mr E didnt think QFL were fair to invoice him for a fee on a claim they couldnt show had 
been upheld due to work theyd completed. He disputed QFL had been authorised to pursue 
a claim with lender B. And he was unhappy with the level of contact hed received from QFL 
when they chased him for their fee, which he felt was harassing. So, he wanted the fee to be 
refunded and compensation for the stress and anxiety hed been caused.
QFL didnt agree. They thought theyd acted fairly when invoicing Mr E for a fee, as the 
refund hed received in December 2019 resulted from the claim they submitted. And due to 
the time that had elapsed, they thought it was reasonable to assume the refund had been 
paid by this time. So, they thought theyd were fair to chase Mr E for payment of their invoice 
and didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr E remained unhappy with this 
response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They didnt think it was in 
dispute that QFL had submitted the claim. And they were satisfied the claim had been 
upheld following this submission. So, even though QFL were unable to provide Mr E with a 
copy of the offer letter from lender B, they thought QFL were fair to issue an invoice and 
theyd receiving confirmation that lender B had paid Mr E a refund. And while they 
recognised Mr E was unhappy with the contact he received from QFL; our investigator didnt 
think this contact was excessive considering a fee was due. So, they didnt think QFL 
needed to do anything more.
Mr E didnt agree. And he didnt think our investigator had considered the fact QFL had 
asked him for further information after the claim had been upheld. Our investigator explained 
QFL had received this request for further information after the claim had been upheld. And in 
that time, lender B had upheld the claim but neither party say they received the offer letter. 
So, while they recognised the confusion this had caused Mr E, they didnt think this meant 
the fee should be refunded, or compensation paid. Mr E didnt agree, and he maintained his 
view the contact from QFL had been excessive and harassing. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr E. I appreciate QFLs 
invoice was sent more than two years after Mr E had instructed them. As hed not heard 
anything from them for some time, I can understand why this invoice would come as a 
shock. And as Mr E say he hadnt received any notification from lender B, I can understand 
why Mr E would request proof of the upheld claim before agreeing to pay QFLs fee.
But for me to say QFL have acted unfairly, Id need to be satisfied they failed to act in line 
with the terms and conditions of the agreement Mr E entered when invoicing him for a fee. 
Or, if I think they acted in line with these, that the work they completed was of no value to the 
claim. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Although Mr B did initially raise concerns about whether QFL were instructed to pursue a 
claim against lender B, from what Ive seen I dont think this is in dispute any longer. Even 
so, Ive considered the evidence to satisfy me QFL did have Mr Es authorisation. And Ive 
seen Mr E signed a Letter of Authority (LOA) on two occasions, as well as completing a PPI 
questionnaire and providing further information at QFLs request. So, Im satisfied QFL were 
authorised to pursue the claim.
And Im satisfied QFL submitted the claim to lender B on Mr Es behalf. Ive seen from QFLs 
system notes that they submitted the claim to lender B in June 2019. And Ive seen lender B 
acknowledged this claim in letters sent to both Mr E and QFL in July 2019. So, I think its 
reasonable to assume the refund Mr E received from lender B in December 2019 was a 
result of the work QFL completed and because of this, I think QFL are entitled to charge Mr 
E for their settlement fee.
But I recognise Mr E doesnt think this is fair, as QFL were unable to provide him with the 
offer letter lender B issued in December 2019. Our investigator received a copy of this from 
lender B directly, which shows both QFL and Mr E were sent the offer letter on 18 December 
2019, the same day the refund was paid.
Both Mr E and QFL say this wasnt received. So, on the balance of probability, I think its 
reasonable to assume there was an issue when these were sent. But this issue wasnt the 
fault of QFL. As Im satisfied QFL never received this letter, I wouldnt expect them to be able to provide this when Mr E requested to see it. So, I dont think QFLs failure to produce 
this means Mr E shouldnt have paid their fee.
And although I recognise Mr E did receive a request for further information after the claim 
had been upheld, I dont think this is the fault of QFL. As Ive already explained above, I 
dont think QFL received the offer letter sent by lender B. So, the only information they had 
was the information request sent by lender B six days before the offer was made. So, I think 
QFL acted in good faith by obtaining that further information and sending it to lender B. I 
cant see any evidence to show lender B made QFL aware the claim had been upheld after 
that, until the contact QFL received in March 2021. 
And even so, lender B have confirmed Mr E received this refund in December 2019. And I 
wouldve expected Mr E to recognise a refund had been paid to him as it wouldve been 
received into his account.  The terms and conditions of the agreement Mr E entered into 
when he signed QFLs LOA explains that Mr E will inform {QFL} promptly of any relevant 
matters affecting the claim(s) such as direct contact from the company. So, when Mr E 
receiving his refund, I think he also had some responsibility to ensure QFL were aware of 
this. And if Mr E had, I think its likely QFL wouldve issued their invoice sooner and in that 
situation, I dont think Mr E wouldve felt the need to dispute the invoice hed received.
The terms and conditions also make it clear that QFL that they will invoice Mr E for a 
settlement fee on any successful refund he received. And they also make it clear what 
percentage this fee would be. Im satisfied the fee QFL charged Mr E falls within these terms 
and conditions. So, I cant say QFL have done anything wrong nor do I think they need to do 
anything more.
Ive then thought about Mr Es concerns about the contact he received from QFL. Mr E 
thinks the contact he received was excessive and amounted to harassment. But I think QFL 
were entitled to chase Mr E for their fee. And when this wasnt paid, I think they were fair to 
continue contact attempts to secure payment. While I appreciate receiving several calls, as 
well as some text and email messages, may have been worrying for Mr E, I dont think the 
volume of contact QFL made was excessive, considering their fee remained outstanding. 
Because of this, I dont think QFL need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr E was hoping for. But I hope it provides him with a 
detailed explanation of what happened during the progression of his claim and the delay in 
him being invoice for QFLs fee. And I hope this provides Mr E with some closure for his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint about Quickly Finance 
Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman