DRN-3577511
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about the administration and in particular, what she calls, misleading 
information she has been given by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited about her critical illness 
cover policy. 
What happened
Mrs M took out a standalone critical illness cover policy through a separate business in 
1996. A predecessor scheme of Aviva took responsibility for the provision of cover and 
administration of the policy. 
Mrs M complained in 2020 after she said she had received some contradictory information 
about the policy and what it covered her for. She said she had been led to believe that the 
policy also provided her with life cover. She was also unhappy that statement she had been 
sent has been misleading. 
Aviva responded to say that they had no record of telling Mrs M during a phone call some 
years previous, that the policy included life cover. They did have a copy of a letter from 2018 
which they felt clearly explained what cover was provided. However, they didnt feel they had 
been as clear in 2020 when Mrs M raised the issue and paid her £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience this had caused. 
Mrs M remained unhappy and so brought her complaint to our service for an independent 
review. Our investigator looked into it and she said that Aviva could have been clearer in 
addressing Mrs Ms issues and questions with the policy. But she felt £150 was adequate 
compensation for that. She also didnt see any evidence that Aviva had misled Mrs M that 
the policy included life cover. 
Mrs M didnt agree with the assessment. She said that she had been told after she retired 
that the policy included life cover, and thats why she included with it. She maintained that 
they hadnt done enough following the letter in 2019 and complaint in 2020. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Mrs Ms policy provides a sum assured of £36,000, paid out if she was diagnosed with one 
of the serious illnesses listed in the policy term and conditions. The policy document also 
defines serious illness. The illustration also stated that life cover wasnt included but that this 
was a standalone critical illness cover policy. Aviva arent responsible for the sale of the 
policy, but I think the information they provided at the time was clear. 
Mrs M says that she contacted Aviva after retirement to enquire about the policy. She says 
she was told that the policy included life cover and that is why she decided to continue with 
the policy, rather than cancelling it as she had initially planned to do after retirement. 
Unfortunately, probably due to the amount of time that has passed, there is no evidence of 
this call or what was discussed. I have therefore looked at what other information Mrs M was 
given, to decide if she was misinformed. 
Mrs M received a yearly statement for her policy and we have been provided with a copy of 
these. They state that Aviva will pay out on diagnosis of critical illness for Mrs M, the sum 
assured of £36,000. There is no mention of life cover. However, it also gives a plan value. 
This is an investment element of the policy that would pay on the policy holders death. 
Mrs Ms policy has also been reviewed at times and in the review letters it confirms a 
standalone critical illness benefit, with no mention of life cover. Based on this and the yearly 
statements that were sent to Mrs M, and without any further evidence of a call from around 
2009 stating that the policy included life cover, I cant safely or fairly conclude that Aviva 
have misled Mrs M as to the details of this policy. 
However, I do agree that Avivas service and communications could have been clearer 
following Mrs Ms request to change her address in November 2018 and her subsequent 
request for confirmation on whether she had life cover. Aviva didnt send policy 
documentation in July 2020 that they said they would and Mrs M had to chase this up. I also 
agree with the investigator that Aviva didnt do enough to explain what serious illnesses were 
covered under the policy. This caused Mrs M distress and inconvenience, but I think the 
£150 they have already paid for this was fair compensation in these circumstances. 
In summary, I cant fairly conclude that Aviva misled Mrs M into believing she had life cover 
rather than standalone critical illness cover. The initial documentation, yearly statements and 
review letters were clear enough. However, they didnt handle her more recent requests for 
clarification well enough and were right to pay her £150 compensation for this. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman