DRN-3016313
The complaint
Miss P has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) changes to its overdraft pricing 
structure caused them financial difficulty. 
What happened
Miss P complained to Lloyds after it changed its overdraft pricing structure. She said the 
extra cost would make her overdraft more difficult to repay. Lloyds didnt uphold the 
complaint. And as Miss P was dissatisfied she referred the complaint to our service.
Miss Ps complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that Lloyds 
ought to have realised that Miss P was experiencing financial difficulty by 25 July 2014 and 
so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
Lloyds didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Lloyds acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed Miss Ps overdraft 
on 25 July 2014. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Miss P was in no position to 
sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
Miss P was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt seen or maintained a credit 
balance for an extended period of time. Her overdraft level was almost always higher at the 
end of every month than the wages being paid into her account. So, it was clear the 
overdraft was only likely to increase. Lloyds own literature suggests that overdrafts are for 
unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. So, I think that 
Miss Ps overdraft usage should have prompted Lloyds to have realised that Miss P wasnt 
using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. 
As Lloyds didnt react to Miss Ps overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the 
same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Miss P ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So, I think that Lloyds 
didnt treat Miss P fairly and she lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong. And this means 
that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ps complaint for Lloyds Bank PLC to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Ps current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it after the renewal on 25 July 20214 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Miss P to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Ps 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft on 25 July 2014.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss P along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Ps credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds Bank PLC to take off tax from this interest. 
Lloyds Bank PLC must give Miss P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ps complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman