DRN-3032552
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) under their home 
insurance policy. They are unhappy at the way St Andrews dealt with their claim for jewellery 
items stolen during a burglary at their home, and the settlement of their claim.
St Andrews uses agents to assess claims as well as to deal with claims and complaints. Any 
reference to St Andrews in this decision includes those agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S suffered a burglary at their home in January 2020, with some jewellery stolen. 
Mr and Mrs S lodged a claim with St Andrews and provided a list of the items, including 
estimated values. St Andrews appointed their jewellery supplier (G) to validate the list and 
make a settlement offer. G made an offer based on a combination of an e-token redeemable 
with them (£3,290), a separate gift card for use at other suppliers (£669), as well as a part 
cash settlement for an item that couldnt be replaced due to its age (£350). Mr and Mrs S 
accepted the offer.
 
Mr and Mrs S then contacted St Andrews to say they hadnt been able to find suitable 
replacements with the e-token. St Andrews offered Mr and Mrs S an alternative voucher, but 
only to a value of £2,056. Unhappy at receiving an alternative at a significantly lower value, 
Mr and Mrs S asked St Andrews for their claim to be settled through a cash settlement.
  
Mr and Mrs S subsequently raised concerns with St Andrews three times in 2020, but their 
letters werent responded to and it wasnt until Mr and Mrs S complained to this service that 
St Andrews considered their concerns as a complaint. In their final response, St Andrews 
declined the complaint. Regarding the way the claim was settled, St Andrews noted that the 
gift card and e-token had both expired, as Mr and Mrs S hadnt been able to use them to 
obtain what they considered to be suitable replacements. St Andrews offered to renew both 
the e-token and gift card. Alternatively, they would offer a cash settlement. But that would be 
based on the amount St Andrews would pay their suppliers for the items, which would be 
less than the value of the e-token and gift card given the discounts St Andrews could secure. 
St Andrews subsequently offered £2,189 (net of the part payment of £350 previously made). 
But they did accept they hadnt received correspondence and offered £50 in compensation.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy at the outcome of their complaint and the cash settlement 
offered, so restated their complained to this service, saying they didnt feel theyd been 
treated fairly. The main points of their complaint were that they hadnt been able to use the 
e-token or gift card, as the jewellers that accepted them werent able to replace the stolen 
items. They were also unhappy that the value of the cash settlement offered was less than 
the values provided to St Andrews when they made their claim. Also, the e-token and gift 
card couldnt be used to obtain items at a discounted price. Mr and Mrs S were also unhappy 
that they hadnt received responses to the letters sent to St Andrews.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding that St Andrews hadnt treated Mr and Mrs 
S fairly. He concluded that St Andrews werent able (through their suppliers) to replace the 
stolen items with suitable replacements, so it was unfair to offer a cash settlement at a lower 
value. The investigator concluded that St Andrews should pay the full amount (£3,639  
taking account of the part payment). The investigator thought that £50 compensation for not 
responding to correspondence was fair.
St Andrews disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They said their suppliers could obtain replacement items (with one exception 
where they made the part payment) so it was fair to issue e-tokens and gift cards to the 
value of those items. St Andrews also thought that, in offering a cash settlement reflecting 
discounts they could obtain, they had acted in line with the policy terms and conditions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 My role here is to decide whether St Andrews has acted fairly towards Mr and Mrs S.
 
The main part of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint is that they couldnt use the e-token and gift card 
to obtain suitable replacement items. And that St Andrews didnt act fairly when offering a 
cash settlement lower than the value of the e-token and gift card. St Andrews maintain that 
they (through their supplier) can replace the items lost (including modern equivalents for 
those items Mr and Mrs S have said were of significant age).
 
Ive also considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ss insurance policy. Under the 
section headed How we settle a claim under your Contents cover it states:
We can either repair or replace any item or make a money payment instead.
We will pay the cost of replacement as new if available or otherwise the nearest 
equivalent less any discounts obtainable
If an item is irreplaceable, we will base our payment on expert opinion of its value 
immediately prior to its loss or damage.
As Mr and Mrs Ss items were stolen (and not recovered) then only the replacing or payment 
options are possible. St Andrews provided a list of the stolen items and details of what they 
considered to be suitable replacements. Ive looked at this carefully, but Ive noted that (of 
the ten items) the indicated replacements for three are stated to be no longer available. Ive 
also noted that in a further five cases the replacements are of a lower grade of gold than 
those they are replacing (which may be linked to the age of the stolen items). So, Im not 
persuaded that they are appropriate replacements for the stolen items. Given this, then Ive 
concluded that St Andrews should base the cash settlement on the value of the items, as 
reflected in the e-token (£3,290) and gift card (£669) they originally offered Mr and Mrs S 
and not apply a discount (£3,609  taking account of the £350 part-payment).
 
On the other aspects of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint, they were unhappy that the e-token and 
gift card couldnt be used for items on sale or discounted. St Andrews said that this was 
because the values of the e-token and gift card were calculated based on full replacement 
prices for the items identified. So, to use the e-token or gift card to obtain items on sale or 
discount would effectively mean Mr and Mrs S benefitting from betterment (that is, making a 
gain from the replacement at sale or discount cost). I think St Andrews argument is fair.
On the issue of not receiving a response to their letters, Ive noted that St Andrews have 
acknowledged that they dont have a record of receiving the letters. But Ive also considered 
Mr and Mrs S telling us that they did send two of the letters to an incorrect address. Taking 
these points together, I think that £50 compensation is fair in the circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. I 
require St Andrews Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr and Mrs S a cash settlement based on the value of the stolen items (£3,609  
taking account of the £350 part-payment).
Pay £50 in compensation for not responding to correspondence (if not already paid).
Given the time that has elapsed since the original offer of a cash settlement to Mr and Mrs S, 
St Andrews should add interest at 8% simple from the date of that offer to the date on which 
Mr and Mrs S tell us that they accept my decision, assuming they do accept). This would be 
applied to the difference between the cash settlement I require St Andrews to pay (£3,609) 
and that originally offered by St Andrews (£2,189).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman