DRN-3955948
The complaint
Ss complaint is about a notification it says it made to its broker, W Denis Insurance Brokers 
Plc regarding a potential claim against it.
S says W Denis failed to notify its claim to Ss insurers which resulted in those insurers 
eventually declining it. S want W Denis to compensate it for this by covering the legal costs it 
has incurred in defending the claim against it, meeting any contribution or award it might be 
asked to pay in that claim and pay something for the time S has spent dealing with this 
matter and the claim itself. 
S is also unhappy that W Denis failed to respond to its complaint within a reasonable 
timescale. 
What happened
S provides logistical event services. In September 2019 S reported an incident to W Denis at 
one of the events it was involved in providing a services to. The incident concerned an injury 
to a third party at a racecourse. W Denis call note documenting the incident set out that S 
wasnt involved in the decision to sign off the equipment and layout of the event. Because of 
this W Denis told S that it didnt think they could be held accountable for the injury to the 
third party.
Following the initial call W Denis then asked S for further information so that they could pass 
this to their claims team for review. S says it provided this information verbally during the 
course of a call and that W Denis failed to do anything with it- such as notify S insurer of the 
claim. As a result, S says its insurer wouldnt later cover the claim because it wasnt notified 
during the period S was insured. On the other hand, W Denis says S didnt provide the 
information requested so they werent in a position to notify insurers of a potential claim, 
which did eventually follow.
W Denis did however accept that they didnt reply to some of the correspondence S sent in 
when they should have, so theyve apologised for this. 
Our investigator considered Ss complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. She 
thought that W Denis did fail to respond to correspondence from S when they should have 
replied. Because of this she said W Denis should pay S £100 to compensate it for the 
inconvenience caused. The investigator didnt however think that there was enough 
evidence to suggest that W Denis were given enough information about the incident to allow 
them to make a notification to Ss insurer. W Harris accepted the investigators view, but S 
doesnt agree, so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint for the same reasons reached by the investigator. Ill 
explain why. 
Like the investigator I agree W Harris failed to respond to correspondence S sent. I accept 
that one email went to an email address that wasnt working for which S received a bounce 
back message, but others were sent to a working email address. W Harris says emails 
werent responded to because some of them went into their junk mail folder. I think W Harris 
ought to have been checking for this. W Harris isnt an individual so they should be alive to 
the fact that emails from their clients could be received in various different folders. 
So, I think that W Harris did something wrong and that this wouldve caused S 
inconvenience in sending further emails chasing for answers. Because of this I think W 
Harris should pay S £100 for the inconvenience this caused. I appreciate this isnt what S 
thinks is the right remedy for its complaint. Rather it wants to be compensated for both this 
and W Harris failure to notify its insurer of a possible claim against it.
Ive thought about what W Harris has said and looked at the evidence both parties have 
provided. The issue for me to decide was whether S gave W Harris enough information to 
allow them to register a notification about a possible claim with Ss insurer. Having done so, 
Im not satisfied that I can conclusively say that it did.The phone note and email chain 
between the parties suggests that W Harris did ask for S to provide information in writing 
following a phone call about the claim, so that it could pass this onto their claims department. 
That email specifically says:
Could you please send me a quick email so I can forward to our claims department for our 
file.
Please include a brief overview of the incident including, responsibility for the track and sign 
off.
Ive seen a response to that email. It says:
Sorry you seem to be Mr forms man. Let do this together on Wednesday.
I havent seen anything after that which persuasively supports that S gave W Harris a full 
account of the incident, such that they could notify Ss insurer. So, whilst S says their email 
meant they expected to sit down with W Harris and put together an account of the incident, 
they havent been able to provide any further detail about what happened beyond this. I 
know that S feels it had two phone calls with W Harris, but I dont think their account properly 
evidences exactly what was discussed during both calls and whether S did provide W Harris 
with enough detail about the incident to allow them to properly notify Ss insurer. Certainly, 
there wasnt enough in the first call note that persuades me that S gave all the information 
an insurer would have needed to register a notification against its policy. By this I mean the 
time and location of the incident, the name of the parties involved, including its client, the 
nature of the injury, and whether any specific admissions were made by the other parties 
involved in the dispute. 
In making these findings, Im also conscious that I havent seen anything at all to supports a 
second call took place between S and W Harris in which W Harris said it had enough 
information with which to notify insurers. There is no call recording, call notes or a phone bill 
from S showing that a call took place. Because of this I cant conclusively say that S did 
something wrong.
Ive also noted that Ss claim for cover was made to a new insurer when the claim by the 
third party was eventually made. S says the broker on that policy said the insurer was 
minded to reject the claim on the basis that it was for retrospective cover. Whilst Im not considering a complaint against either of the insurers involved in this dispute here, its worth 
drawing S attention to this Services guidance about claims made and claims occurring 
policies on our website and in circumstances where there is continuous cover in place. Its 
possible that Ss claim is one thats capable of cover based on that guidance. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Ss complaint against W Denis Insurance Brokers Plc 
and direct them to put things right by paying W Denis £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman