DRN-1489675
complaint
Mrs D complains that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined her home insurance claim 
for storm damage to her conservatory roof.
Mrs D is represented by her son, Mr D.
background
Mrs D made a claim after her conservatory started leaking. Ageas appointed a surveyor, 
who reported the following:
The conservatory requires immediate maintenance  there were signs that sealant 
and window seals require replacing. The render above the leadwork to the 
conservatory also requires maintenance.
 
The Perspex roof sheets and the plastic struts were in place, and there were no signs 
of storm damage. The likely cause of the water ingress is a combination of the render 
and failed seals on the conservatory roof.
 
The claim has been submitted during a period of storm conditions, but the damage is 
due to the conservatory's poor condition and its a maintenance issue. The claim was 
declined, and Mr D was given photos to support the decision. Mr D felt there was 
storm damage, but he couldnt highlight any.
 
Mr D complained on Mrs Ds behalf, but Ageas maintained its claim decision. So, he referred 
the complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators. Based on 
the surveyors report, she thought the damage had occurred due to general wear and tear, 
rather than being caused by a one-off storm. Therefore, she concluded Ageas had fairly 
declined the claim. Because Mr D disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
Mr D has made the following points:
The winds must have caused slight movement and that has damaged the watertight 
seals in the central area of the roof  which was not leaking before. This area is not 
near the lead flashing, or the windows, which are not leaking.
 
There wouldnt be visible signs of storm damage to the seals as they are concealed 
within the joining struts. However, any slight movement caused by the high winds 
would affect them.
 
Although the render above the leadwork is a little unsightly, there's no sign of leaking 
below.
 
There was no existing wear and tear, and the conservatory wasnt leaking prior to the 
storm.
 Mr D questions how joining struts and seals can be maintained to prevent leaks. He 
says nothing else has a bearing on the claim as the conservatory isnt leaking 
anywhere else.
 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means              
I have determined what I consider is more likely to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are: 
was there a storm?
is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
 
I have re-assessed Mrs Ds complaint and all the available evidence with these three 
questions in mind.
The policy terms define a storm as winds over 55mph, or damage by rainfall if more than an 
inch (i.e. 25.4mm) fell in an hour. Ageas checked the weather records when the claim was 
made, and its notes say 54mph winds and 32mm of rainfall were reported on the date the 
leak occurred. Our service uses a different weather provider, and only 44mph winds and 
12mm of rainfall were reported (with a maximum of 1.8mm in a single hour). But given 
Ageas hasnt disputed that there were storm conditions in Mrs Ds area, I consider it 
reasonable to accept the first condition has been satisfied. 
However, having said that, Im not persuaded the reported damage is typical of that caused 
by a storm, or those conditions were the main cause of the damage. Ill explain why.
The surveyor didnt identify any signs of storm damage; and in my view, had winds damaged 
the conservatory there would likely be signs, such as the Perspex sheets lifting. I appreciate 
what Mr D says about wind movement damaging the seals, but I consider it likely that seals 
in a good condition would be able to withstand wind or movement which hasnt led to any 
structural damage.
I accept the conservatory wasnt leaking before the period of bad weather. However, based 
on the photos Ive seen, Im not persuaded there wasnt any pre-exiting wear and tear, or 
maintenance related issues. The photos show the structure is relatively old and has 
deteriorated in places.
Conservatory seals dont last indefinitely. At some point, they will likely need maintenance or 
to be replaced. Having carefully considered the information provided to us by both parties, 
on balance, I consider it likely the weather conditions simply highlighted an existing 
maintenance issue. As such, Im persuaded that Ageas fairly declined the claim.
Im not suggesting that Mrs D ought to have been aware there was an issue. Her awareness 
doesnt matter here. Like most home insurance policies, her policy doesnt cover general 
maintenance; it covers damage caused by a one-off insured event.I note Mr D says he wasnt told by the surveyor the claim was declined, and he was only told 
the decision when he chased Ageas about two weeks after the visit. But whilst I accept there 
was a misunderstanding, this doesnt impact my overall decision that Ageas acted fairly.
my final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs D, and Mr D. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Vince Martin
Ombudsman