DRN-2207335
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a Gold account in 
January 2002. Mrs C has said that the account was recommended to her by Lloyds but the 
benefits were not of use to her when she initially took it out.
What happened
Mrs C upgraded her current account to a fee-paying Gold account in January 2002.
 
Our adjudicators have looked into this complaint already. They did not think that the Gold 
account was mis-sold as they believed that Mrs C couldve benefitted from the travel 
insurance benefit that came with the account. They said this due to transactions from around 
the time of the sale to airlines and travel companies that suggested that Mrs C travelled 
abroad, at least around the time she agreed to the account.
Mrs C did not agree with this finding as she says that the transactions were to purchase 
airline tickets for her partner at the time to go to Belfast and that she never travelled abroad. 
So the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive taken this into consideration when looking into this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the Gold packaged account to 
Mrs C. Id like to explain why I think thats the case.
It may help for me to explain that where matters are in dispute, as they are here, I have to 
make my decision based on what I think was most likely to have happened, based on 
everything that is available. Unfortunately, as the sale of the Gold account took place around 
19 years ago, Lloyds has unsurprisingly not been able to provide much in the way of 
evidence from the sale to show what exactly was discussed. 
Mrs C has said that the Gold account was presented to her as being perfect for her needs 
and I understand that Lloyds recommended the account to Mrs C. This meant that Lloyds 
had to ensure that the account was right for her. The main benefits which were in place at 
the time of the upgrade was Travel insurance and an interest free overdraft buffer of £100 
and a reduced interest rate for overdrafts.
Mrs C has explained that she never travelled abroad and that the transactions in 2002 and 
2003 to airlines and travel agents were not for her but were tickets for her partner. I have 
carefully considered this and based on the overall evidence I think that it is likely that Mrs C 
did travel abroad, albeit not recently. I say this because there are a number of transactions 
that suggest Mrs C travelled abroad near the time of the sale. For example, there are 
transactions in March 2004 where currency seems to have been withdrawn via an overseas 
ATM and payments were made in foreign currencies. So while I accept that Mrs C may not 
have travelled abroad recently, I think around the time of the sale she may have and may 
have intended to do so in the future. 
I can also see that Mrs C frequently used her overdraft. So, this may have been another 
benefit that she couldve used as well. Given this I think that Lloyds recommending the Gold 
account was not inappropriate in the circumstances.
I accept its possible that Mrs C may not have been given all the important information about 
the account. But Ive not seen anything about her circumstances at the time that makes me 
think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, had she been given more information 
about it.
Overall, I understand that Mrs C may be disappointed with this. But having considered the 
very limited information available, I think its more likely than not that she agreed to the 
account at the time because she was interested in the benefits that it came with. Were that 
not the case, then I dont think she wouldve agreed to it, especially as she already had a fee-
free account at the time and has not said anything to suggest she thought she had to have 
the Gold account. I can see that with hindsight having the Gold account for so many years 
may not have been good value for money. But this does not mean that it was mis-sold when 
Lloyds sold it to her.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint about her Gold account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman