DRN-4235532
The complaint
Ms F has complained that she was unable to access funds in her account and Allied Irish 
Banks Plc (AIB) gave her incorrect and misleading information.
What happened
Ms F contacted AIB as she wanted to withdraw funds into her nominated bank account. 
When she contacted AIB she was unable to access her money straight away, was given 
incorrect and misleading information and didnt receive responses to her emails.
Ms F complained and said AIB hadnt informed her of any changes to its terms and 
conditions or that its London branch had closed. 
AIB responded and apologised for its mistakes and offered a total of £455 compensation to 
include compensation for Ms Fs financial losses and fees. This figure included a sum of 
£300 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Unhappy, Ms F referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint and found AIBs offer was fair. Ms F disagreed and 
said AIB should have paid more for her distress and inconvenience. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think AIBs offer to resolve the complaint is fair. Ill explain why. 
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it here and 
will instead focus on what I consider to be key to my decision. 
Ms F called AIB to transfer her funds into her nominated bank account. When she 
called, she was told the London branch had closed. She made a number of calls 
between Christmas and New Year and was given incorrect or incomplete information. 
She was eventually told she would need to complete a form to request her funds. Ms 
F suffered financial loss as a result of not being able to access her money 
immediately. 
Ms F complained and AIB upheld her complaint. It accepted that Ms F was given 
incorrect information and that she should have been provided with the correct 
information. AIB offered compensation to Ms F for her financial losses in relation to 
waiting for the money. The amount for financial losses isnt in dispute. 
AIB also offered to pay Ms F £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to her. This is the sum of money Ms F is unhappy with as she says it doesnt 
adequately recognise the stress and inconvenience she suffered. So my decision will 
focus on why I think £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ms F made 3-4 calls to AIB and each time she called, she was clearly frustrated and 
worried that she wasnt able to access her money. Between 29 December and 5 
January Ms F wasnt sure when she would be able to access the money she needed. 
She had to keep calling and repeating herself and was given incorrect information. 
She was eventually told she would need to complete a form and post it to access her 
funds. Ms F received her funds on 6 January. 
Our compensation guidelines are published on our website. AIB awarded Ms F £300 
compensation which is what I would award for repeated errors which resulted in an 
impact that lasted a few days and caused distress and inconvenience. 
Ms F says AIB did not inform her the bank had closed and she also hadnt been told 
that she would no longer be able to request her funds to be transferred to her 
nominated account over the telephone. 
AIB has explained that its London branches were closed and a notice was placed on 
the website about this. Ms F says AIB should have notified her of the bank closures 
and that she would no longer be able to easily access her funds via telephone. 
I can appreciate and understand Ms Fs frustration and that she had to call a number 
of times to get her funds. I have to consider what should have happened. Ms F 
should have been able to access her funds easily and without any issues. She had to 
call back over a number of days. During this time Ms F was concerned about when 
she would receive her funds. Had she accessed her funds immediately, she wouldnt 
have incurred a financial loss. AIB has compensated Ms F for this. In addition it 
offered £300 for her distress and inconvenience which I think is appropriate taking 
into consideration the number of days Ms F had to call and wait for her funds. 
As the London branch closed and AIB explained a notice had been placed on the 
website, I cant say it needed to do anything further. As the branch Ms F used was 
closed, the branch she spoke to wasnt able to process her request to transfer funds 
over the telephone. I cant see that AIB adequately explained this to Ms F which 
caused her even more frustration. However, as Ms F did receive her funds by 6 
January, I think £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience overall is 
appropriate. AIB apologised for the incorrect information it gave to Ms F and for its 
errors and overall, I think its offer is reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think Allied Irish Banks Plcs offer to resolve the complaint is 
fair and so it should pay Ms F a total of £455 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman