DRN-2184929
The complaint
Mrs F says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision rather than any other business.
What happened
Mrs F bought the policy in 1993 at the same time as taking out a store card in the store. It 
covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Fs case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mrs Fs store card application had a section for optional features, one of which was PPI. It 
gave an overview of what the policy was for, and then had two options to choose from: one 
to take PPI, and one to turn it down. The option to buy PPI was ticked, the option to turn it 
down was left blank, and Mrs F signed the form to confirm her choices. Ive not seen any 
wider problems with AXAs sales process from the time, nor any evidence which shows they 
misled Mrs F here. So I think its most likely that AXA made Mrs F aware she had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if 
she no longer recalls doing so after so long.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs F, so they didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
They did have to give Mrs F enough information to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Mrs F about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs F chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like she 
was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations. 
And the PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mrs Fs existing benefits and covered her for much 
longer. So the policy could have been useful for Mrs F in case something went wrong. And 
the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mrs F could cancel it at any time without a 
penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have put her off 
taking it out.
Lastly, in response to our adjudicator, Mrs Fs representatives pointed out that she changed 
her work situation some years after the sale. But in this case, Im only looking at whether the 
PPI was mis-sold at the time of the sale, rather than what happened afterwards.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint about the sale of this 
particular policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman