DRN-2052467
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank PLC (when it was trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1995. The policy was added to 
Mrs Ms Barclaycard account when she applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs Ms main complaint is that she already had excellent sickness benefits in place through 
her work. She told us that if the costs versus benefits and the policys optional nature had 
been made clear, then she wouldve declined the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint because:
Mrs M made it clear on the application form that she wanted to take the policy out by 
ticking the Yes box for PPI. She couldve ticked the No box if she hadnt wanted PPI. 
So I think that Barclays made Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional and that she 
chose to take it. 
As this was a postal application, Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it 
didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. But Ive looked carefully at whether it 
gave her enough clear information so she could decide for herself if she wanted to 
have PPI.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs M wasnt eligible for the policy. 
Although there were some things the policy didnt cover it doesnt look as if those 
applied in Mrs Ms case when she took out her Barclaycard. So, I dont think having 
more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected her decision to 
take it out.  
Ive taken into account that Mrs Ms employer wouldve paid her 6 months full sick pay 
followed by 6 months half pay. But the policy couldve paid out in full for up to 
12 months per accident and sickness claim. So the PPI provided better protection than 
she couldve relied on getting through her employer. And it wouldve paid out on top of 
sick pay providing Mrs M with a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially bearing in 
mind that she mightve had some extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled and 
she wouldve only been on half pay after being off work sick for 6 months. 
PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mrs M lost her job 
and became unexpectedly unemployed.
So I think the policy couldve provided Mrs M with a useful benefit if shed needed to 
claim. 
I dont think Barclays properly explained what the policy would cost, or what it might 
pay out if Mrs M made a claim. But, even if she hadnt fully appreciated how much PPI 
would actually cost on a month to month basis, Mrs M chose to take out the policy 
when she didnt have to  so she seems to have wanted it. The policy appears to have 
been affordable for her when she took it out  and she couldve cancelled it at any time 
if her circumstances changed or she didnt want to pay for it any longer.
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered her, I think it unlikely Mrs M wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think 
that shed still have taken out the policy.
This means that, even though Barclays didnt do everything it shouldve done, I dont find 
Mrs M has lost out because of anything Barclays did wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman