DRN-3601448
The complaint
Mr S complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) treated him unfairly 
when it asked him to pay a balance it claimed had been credited back to him.
What happened
Around March 2019, AMEX contacted Mr S asking that he pay an outstanding balance on
his credit card. Mr S thought hed paid the balance and complained to AMEX because he felt
it wouldnt help him understand what happened with the payment he made.
Mr S says he recalls making the payment via cheque twice  the first (that Ill refer to as
cheque A) he says was cancelled and the payment was later made via a second cheque 
(that Ill refer to as cheque B).
AMEX says Mr Ss bank requested the payment back because the cheque was cancelled,
which it agreed to do. AMEX initially suggested the account details the refund was sent to
was for one of Mr S bank accounts  which Mr S later proved as incorrect.
AMEX has since been chasing Mr S to clear this balance. The debt was eventually escalated
to third-party debt collectors and AMEX reported the overdue balance on Mr S credit report.
AMEX also forfeited Mr S membership points in line with its terms. Mr S says he feels like
hes been harassed with phone calls and correspondence about the debt, hes experienced
stress and embarrassment and that hes spent significant time trying to resolve this issue.
From Mr S perspective, the funds had essentially gone missing as AMEX had sent a refund
back to Mr S bank but it didnt end up in his bank account. Mr S wanted AMEX to trace the
cheque payment to find out what had happened and is unhappy that it continued referring
him back to his bank.
In its final response to Mr S, AMEX said it had acted fairly but recognised there had been
some poor service  it paid Mr S £25 as a goodwill gesture.
After Mr S asked this service to get involved, one of our investigators concluded that AMEX
had acted fairly. Following the initial view, our investigator asked AMEX to look into the
matter in more detail. This led to AMEX establishing exactly what happened with both
cheques and it found that there was indeed a payment that hadnt reached Mr S account.
Although AMEX didnt accept it made an error, it credited Mr S closed account with the
funds to clear the balance he owed. AMEX paid some surplus funds directly to Mr S, it
agreed to restore Mr S credit file and looked into the membership points that were forfeited.
The complaint, however remained unresolved and has been passed to me for a final review.
My provisional decision
I recently issued my provisional thoughts on this complaint in which I said the following:
The circumstances around this complaint have been ongoing for over three years now. A lot
has happened in that time. Although Ill only comment on what I think is relevant, Id like to
reassure the parties that Ive taken everything into account.
Recent enquiries revealed what went wrong around the time:
Mr S bank contacted AMEX asking it to return the funds from cheque A as Mr S had 
cancelled the cheque, so it had been wrongly deposited.
AMEX returned the funds to Mr S bank and asked Mr S to pay the outstanding 
balance.
Cheque B had been successfully deposited and the funds left Mr S bank account 
and reached AMEXs holding account  AMEX, until recently, didnt allocate this 
payment into Mr S credit card account.
The relevant cheque codes and tracing activities show that it was the cheque A funds 
that Mr S bank asked to be returned and it was cheque B that debited Mr S bank 
account and the funds sent to AMEX
It seems to me that after some detailed enquiries, AMEX was able to establish what had
happened and later correctly allocated the funds to Mr S account. But its clear to me that
Mr S had been asking AMEX to carry out such enquiries for a significant period. AMEX
shouldve properly looked into what happened the first time and particularly after Mr S raised
a formal complaint.
Mr S provided proof that the refunded funds werent returned to him directly and that it was
the funds from cheque B that had left his bank account. Hed also proved that the account
AMEX refunded the funds to wasnt one of his. So AMEX, in my view, had enough
information to realise something had gone wrong and that it needed to do more to establish
what had happened to Mr S payment.
Instead, AMEX chased Mr S for the debt and involved third-party debt collectors. Mr S had
adverse information recorded on his credit file, he lost his membership points and says he
suffered distress and inconvenience. Had AMEX investigated the matter properly, it wouldve
established that there was a payment in its holding account that simply needed allocating to
Mr S account. As a result, none of the events that followed wouldve taken place and Mr S
wouldnt have experienced unnecessary distress and inconvenience. So I intend to instruct
AMEX to pay him compensation.
I accept AMEXs stance that it doesnt think its fully at fault here. But the fact remains that it
always had the payment it had been chasing Mr S for. And had it looked into this matter
properly the first time, AMEX wouldve known this fact sooner. So I think AMEX acted
unfairly because of this.
In seeking a resolution, I proposed a settlement to Mr S  especially as AMEX has already
put right some of the issues Mr S has experienced as a result of what it did wrong. Mr S
didnt accept what I proposed in full. Having taken his comments on board, Im still planning
to uphold this complaint and intend to ask AMEX to settle the complaint in line with what Ive
set out below.
In my provisional decision, I set out what I intended to instruct AMEX to do to put things 
right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AMEX didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr S responded  he says he accepts the decision in principle but raised a few queries and challenges to what Id said. Ill respond to 
each in turn:
Mr S disagrees that AMEX wasnt fully at fault here. To clarify, I didnt make a finding 
saying AMEX was or wasnt fully at fault for what went wrong. I simply acknowledged 
AMEXs stance on the matter. Nevertheless, I still think it did something wrong here 
and had it looked into the matter properly earlier on, it wouldve avoided the problems 
Mr S experienced.
Mr S thinks AMEX should pay him £5,000 compensation for the time he spent 
dealing with this matter and the stress AMEX caused him. As I explained in my 
provisional findings, AMEX did cause Mr S an unnecessary degree of stress and 
inconvenience and Ive noted the level of correspondence involved and the time Mr S 
had to invest in dealing with this problem. But I dont think the degree of stress and 
inconvenience Mr S has experienced reasonably justifies the level of compensation 
he seeks. I still think £300 is a reasonable reflection of what Mr S has experienced. 
So I wont be increasing the amount Im asking AMEX to pay.
Mr S also asks that his annual membership fee for his credit card account be 
refunded. This isnt a point that Mr S previously brought forward and I havent seen 
anything that suggests AMEX didnt deliver what its expected to under the 
agreement it had with Mr S, for which he paid a fee for. If Mr S feels he hasnt 
received the expected services for the fee he paid, this is something he should take 
up with AMEX in the first instance. 
Mr S says that he wants a record of all telephone calls related to this issue provided 
to him by AMEX as part of the settlement to this complaint. I dont think this is 
reasonable because I cant see how this would put Mr S back in the position he 
wouldve been had AMEX got things right. The resolution Ive put forward is, in my 
opinion a fair way to settle this matter. So I wont be asking AMEX to carry out this 
action. 
Mr S referred to several other points that I believe formed part of his original 
submissions. Ive considered everything hes told this service already and, although I 
may not have specifically commented on each point hes made, Mr Ss resubmission 
of these issues doesnt affect my decision on this matter.
Im still upholding this complaint and instruct AMEX to put things right in the following way. 
Putting things right
AMEX has already allocated the missing payment to Mr S closed account in order to 
clear his outstanding balance  which is what I wouldve expected it to do. I 
understand this left his account in credit and AMEX says it has paid this amount 
directly to Mr S. I think this is fair. 
Mr S membership points were forfeited because the balance on his account was 
overdue. Given Mr S account is closed, AMEX should pay him the monetary 
equivalent of the points he lost out on and provide Mr S with details of how it 
calculated the amount it sends.
If it hasnt done so already, AMEX should remove any adverse information recorded 
on Mr S credit file as a result of the overdue balance.
AMEX should pay Mr S £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused him.
Mr S would like a formal apology from AMEX  I think this is reasonable.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint. American Express Services Europe Limited should settle this complaint in line with what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman