DRN-3171235
The complaint
Mr E complains that Ageas Insurance Limited settled another drivers claim against his motor 
insurance policy. He wants it to fully investigate the claim, restore his No Claims Discount 
(NCD) and compensate him for the distress caused. 
What happened
Another drivers representative said Mr E had struck their car. Ageas asked Mr E about this 
and he denied any involvement. Ageas later had an engineer photograph Mr Es car. Mr E 
recalled another driver approaching his car from the rear at high speed so that Mr E had to 
change lanes. Mr E later found that Ageas had settled the other drivers claim. He was 
unhappy with this as it had caused him distress and affected him financially.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Ageas 
had reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence available before 
deciding that it would be unable to defend Mr E if the matter went to court. So he thought it 
had fairly settled the other drivers claim. It had recorded this as a fault against Mr E and so 
this had impacted his NCD. 
Mr E replied that he denied being in a collision on the alleged date. He said the other driver 
hadnt identified him. He asked for a photograph of the damage to the other car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr E feels frustrated and upset by Ageas decision to hold him liable 
for the other drivers claim. The other driver said Mr E merged into their lane on a 
roundabout and collided with their car. The other driver had flashed their lights at Mr E, but 
he hadnt stopped.
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr E the same as someone else in his position. 
Ageas is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr E to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr E has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of a claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. 
Insurers are entitled to take a commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest 
a third party claim or better to compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision on liability. 
I can see that the evidence that Ageas had available was Mr E and the other drivers 
versions of events. These conflicted and Mr E denied involvement. But the other drivers 
representative provided a photograph of Mr Es car driving away from the scene of the 
accident. 
Ageas had an engineer take photographs of Mr Es car and he found recent damage. Ageas 
thought this was consistent with the damage to the other drivers car shown by photographs 
and a repair invoice. Mr E told an accident investigator that he had been at the scene at the 
time and the other car had flashed him. And he said he had later been contacted by the 
police for failing to stop following an accident, but hed heard nothing further.
So I think Ageas reasonably investigated the claim. It then considered the evidence available 
and thought it would be unable to defend Mr E if the matter went to court. It thought a judge 
wouldnt find in Mr Es favour, so it settled the other drivers claim and recorded a fault 
against Mr E. I think Ageas was entitled to do this by the policy terms and conditions. So I 
cant say that Ageas has done anything wrong or treated Mr E unfairly or unreasonably. 
A fault claim was recorded against Mr E and his NCD was unprotected. So I think Ageas 
reasonably reduced his NCD in keeping with the policys terms and conditions.  
When Ageas settled the other drivers claim, it wrote to Mr E to notify him of this. Mr E later 
renewed his policy with another insurer, but he didnt disclose this claim as he said he hadnt 
received its letter. But I cant reasonably hold Ageas responsible for this as Im satisfied that 
it told him of the outcome of the claim as wed expect. It wrote to Mr E at the address it held 
for him. And I think Mr E should have reasonably known from the claims investigation 
interview that a claim against him was being investigated.  
I can understand that Mr E has been caused stress by this experience. And I was sorry to 
hear that this has affected his health. But as I dont think Ageas has done anything wrong, I 
cant hold it responsible for this or require it to pay Mr E any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman