DRN-2558123
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how Nationwide Building society handled a request in relation to a 
refund for a hotel room he wasnt happy with.
Mr C says Nationwide shouldve told him he had a time limit to provide evidence for a 
chargeback. And hes unhappy it declined his claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (S75).
What happened
In October 2019 Mr C booked a three night stay in a three-star hotel for his partner and 
himself. He booked the room on his Nationwide credit card, paying £202.30.
He says the room had various issues. In summary, he said:
The room was advertised as having a stylish en-suite bathroom. But he says the 
room had no bath, was a wet room and the sink was too small to shave in with no 
plug
The thermostat was broken on the first night  the room was too cold then too hot on 
following nights
The patio door was loose in the frame and let in cold air
Later in October 2019 Mr C contacted Nationwide and asked for a chargeback on the 
transaction. Nationwide asked Mr C to send in evidence to support his claim. But it didnt tell 
him he had 120 days from the transaction date to complete the chargeback.
In February 2020 Mr C was told the chargeback couldnt be raised as he hadnt provided 
evidence within the 120 days. So, the request was changed to a S75 claim for the refund.
In March 2020 Nationwide told Mr C the S75 claim had been declined. It said, in summary, 
that there was no evidence of a breach of contract or misrepresentation. It said Mr C had 
stayed in the hotel for the three nights he booked so there was no financial loss. And, it said 
it wasnt its process to explain the 120 day limit on chargebacks.
Mr C wasnt happy with this and complained. Nationwide sent its final response in May 2020. 
It said it was correct to decline the claim under S75. And it said sorry for not telling Mr C 
about the time limit for the chargeback, but again reiterated this was not its process.
Mr C remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. An investigator issued an 
opinion explaining he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he said he 
hadnt seen enough to make him think there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
He said it wouldve been good practice for Nationwide to tell Mr C about the time limit on the 
chargeback. But, he said he didnt think this wouldve made a difference, as he thought 
Nationwide wouldnt have attempted the chargeback anyway as it wouldnt have likely 
succeeded. 
Mr C responded and reiterated his original points. He pointed to some evidence that he said 
showed the heating wasnt working and said a staff member from the hotel admitted this in 
an email.
Our investigator reviewed what Mr C said but told him this didnt change his opinion. So, the 
complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr C complains about a chargeback and a S75 claim on a credit card. Entering into a 
regulated credit agreement as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider 
Mr Cs complaint against Nationwide.
Ill consider Mr Cs complaint points in turn.
Chargeback
Mr C is unhappy Nationwide didnt tell him he had 120 days from the date of the transaction 
to complete his chargeback request. It isnt in dispute here that Nationwide didnt tell Mr C 
this and it has apologised.
I agree with our investigator that it wouldve been helpful for Nationwide to tell Mr C about 
the time limit. But, that being said, Mr C asked for the chargeback just over a week after he 
booked the hotel. So, he did still have a reasonable amount of time to provide evidence to 
Nationwide.
Either way, Nationwide dont have to raise a chargeback unless it thinks it has a reasonable 
chance of success. Based on the evidence Ive seen, which Ill go into below, I dont think its 
likely Nationwide wouldve raised a chargeback even if Mr C did provide evidence within 120 
days. I say this as I dont think it wouldve considered the request to have a reasonable 
chance of succeeding.
It follows that I dont think Mr C has lost out here. And, given Nationwide has apologised to 
him for not informing him of the timescales, I dont think it needs to take any further action.
S75 claim
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. S75 is relevant to this complaint. This says, under certain circumstances, that a 
consumer has an equal right to claim against a credit provider where there has been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
I firstly need to consider if Mr C had a valid claim under S75. I can see the room cost 
£202.30, so the transaction falls within the financial limits for S75. And, I can see the room 
was booked in Mr Cs name on his Nationwide credit card directly with the hotel. So, Im 
satisfied a valid debtor-creditor-supplier chain exists here. Thinking about this, Im satisfied 
Mr C had a valid claim under S75.Mr C has complained about various aspects of his stay. One of his main points is that he 
feels the room was misrepresented to him because of the bathroom. 
I would consider a misrepresentation to have taken place if Mr C was told a false statement 
of fact, that induced him into taking the room when he otherwise would not have.
Mr C said that the bathroom was not a stylish en-suite as described. He says this wasnt 
the case as the sink was too small with no plug and the bathroom was more of a wet room. 
I agree with our investigator here that stylish is a very subjective term and peoples 
expectations will differ greatly here from this description. Im satisfied this is not a statement 
of fact. I think the key thing here is that the room was advertised as having an en-suite 
bathroom, which it did.
Ive also considered that Mr C says the photo of the room advertised has a bath, whereas 
his room had a shower. But looking at the advert hes provided, I cant see it specifically 
states this is a photo of the specific bathroom he would get. And I cant see the room is 
advertised as having a bath.
Thinking about all of this, Im satisfied the room was not misrepresented or misdescribed to 
Mr C.
Ive thought about the other things Mr C complained about. When considering if there has 
been a breach of contract, I think its reasonable to consider if services were provided with 
reasonable care and skill. So, Ill consider if this was the case.
Mr C said the heating in his room was not working and the thermostat was broken. He says 
this meant the room was very cold on the first night and too hot afterwards. Ive considered 
what the hotel said about this. It said although the thermostat was broken on the first night, 
the heating was working. This meant the heating was controlled from the reception. 
The hotel said the room temperature was set as usual and was then later turned up at 
Mr Cs request. The hotel also said that it provided an extra duvet when Mr C told it the room 
was cold.
In response to the investigators view, Mr C said some data from the hotel room showed the 
heating wasnt working on the first night. But, I dont agree this was the case. The data from 
the room does not show the first night Mr C stayed, but the hotel explained this was because 
the equipment was changed - which ties in with what it said about fixing the thermostat. 
Mr C also pointed out an email from a staff member that he said admitted the heating system 
was faulty. This does say the thermostat wasnt working on the first night. But it specifically 
says the temperature could be set from reception. And it also says Quite frankly we think we 
did everything we could have for you, we couldnt have done more!.
Ive thought carefully about this. I appreciate it must have been frustrating for Mr C not to be 
able to control the temperature from his room. But, I dont think this is enough to say 
services werent provided with reasonable care and skill considering the actions the hotel 
took to rectify this.
Ive thought about what Mr C said about the patio doors not fitting and letting cold air in. The 
hotel said the patio doors were working and were in line with building regulations. Ive 
thought very carefully about what Mr C told us. But, he hasnt provided any further evidence, 
such as photos or videos, to back up what he said. Considering everything here, I havent 
seen enough to make me think its most likely there was an issue with the patio doors.Id like to point out that Ive carefully considered everything else Mr C said about this issue 
and have reviewed all of the emails and other evidence he has sent in. But having done so, I 
dont think on balance there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation here. It follows 
that I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong when it declined Mr Cs claim under S75.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman