DRN-2898510
The complaint
Mr G complains that Gregory Pennington Limited (GPL) failed to properly provide the debt 
management services as agreed. Mr G wants GPL to refund the management fees that he 
paid.
What happened
Mr G took out a debt management plan (DMP) with GPL. This meant he paid an amount to 
GPL each month which it then distributed to his creditors.
Mr G was unhappy with the accuracy of the data that GPL supplied to his creditors. He said 
this showed GPL wasnt managing his account correctly. Mr G said that in line with the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Guidelines, GPL should refund the fees hed paid.
Mr G also complained about a data breach when GPL sent his debt management account 
number and password to his creditors.
GPL doesnt agree that it mismanaged Mr Gs account. It explained why it used the figures 
that it did. GPL felt that an apology for the data breach was enough as Mr G had suffered no 
loss.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Gs complaint be upheld.  She was satisfied with 
GPLs explanation of why it used estimated balances. The investigator appreciated that it 
was stressful to be in a DMP for a lengthy period, but she couldnt say that GPL hadnt 
provided the services Mr G had paid for.
Mr G is unhappy with the investigators recommendation. He points to the figures given to 
creditors which dont change over time. For example, between 5 November 2014 to 29 April 
2016. And then between 13 July 2017 and 2 November 2018. Mr G says that if GPL had 
been carrying out the services of ongoing expert advice, lender negotiation and payment 
management, he wouldve expected to see updated data confirmed by his creditors.
Mr G says that at times, GPL used dates set in the future which means the balances cant 
have been estimated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to the key issues. The rules that 
govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
I appreciate that Mr G is unhappy with the way in which GPL has managed his DMP. As a 
result, he wants GPL to refund the fees that it charged. Mr G points to various sections of the 
FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) to support his complaint.
CONC 8.7.4 says that a firm must refund or credit account fees or charges if its established 
that it gave incorrect or inappropriate advice to its customer. And that a firm must refund fees 
or charges paid where the whole or any part of the service hasnt been provided either at all 
or with a reasonable standard of skill and care.
 
I dont want to appear dismissive of the points that Mr G has made but Im not persuaded 
that GPL failed to provide a service or failed to provide it with a reasonable standard of skill 
and care. And I cant see that GPL has given Mr G wrong or inappropriate advice. 
I think it might be helpful to break Mr Gs concerns down in to separate headings:
Dates in the future
Mr G was concerned about dates in a document that GPL provided. It says that debts are 
correct as of 7 November 2013 yet includes balances confirmed as at 4 February 2015 and 
other dates past 7 November 2013. 
I can appreciate Mr Gs concerns, but this document was attached to a letter from GPL 
dated 2 January 2016. GPL says the date of 7 November 2013 relates to the date of Mr Gs 
last review when his financial statement and offers of payments were sent to creditors. So, I 
cant find that GPL made a mistake or that it wasnt using estimated balances as it said it 
was.
Failure to update balances
Mr G is unhappy that at times GPL supplied the same balance figures to his creditors. He 
says that if GPL had been using estimated figures as it says it did, the balance figures 
wouldve changed over time.
Mr G thinks this means GPL wasnt making any effort to manage his DMP. But from the 
evidence Ive seen, GPL sent regular requests to Mr Gs creditors for updated balances.  
GPL also explained to Mr G that the balances it used to calculate his pro-rata payments 
dont continually update as this would mean the pro-rata offers would be changing all the 
time. And that the balances issued to creditors were taken from Mr Gs last financial review. 
GPL says that creditors are aware of how things work, and that Mr G hasnt lost out 
financially as a result. GPLs explanation seems reasonable. 
Mr G says that creditors couldve picked up on the balances not updating and taken the view 
that the plan wasnt in his best interests and terminate their agreements with GPL. But this 
didnt happen, so I cant require GPL to refund charges or pay compensation for something 
that never materialised.
Statement accuracy
Mr G says that the figures sent to creditors dont match the figures listed on the annual 
statements. Again, GPL explains that the figures given to Mr G show the estimated debt 
balances or last confirmed debt balance. GPL makes this clear on the statements. But the 
figures given to creditors show the last balance from the latest review, which wont 
necessarily be the most up to date balance. I accept GPLs explanation.
Data breachMr G is unhappy that GPL sent his DMP account number and password to his creditors. I 
agree that this was unfortunate and shouldnt have happened. But GPL has apologised. 
I dont have any evidence to suggest that Mr Gs data was compromised as a result of the 
breach. And I cant see that Mr G suffered any financial loss as a result. This means I 
consider GPLs apology to be enough.
Mr G raised a data subject access request (DSAR) with GPL. He told the investigator that 
GPL didnt include all information that it held on him. I appreciate Mr Gs concerns but issues 
around how a business dealt with a DSAR would be better suited to the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) to investigate and respond. If Mr G remains unhappy about 
how GPL dealt with his DSAR, he can refer his concerns to the ICO to investigate. 
During Mr Gs complaint about GPLs management of his DMP, he told the investigator that 
he didnt realise he couldve used a free service until his DMP ended. I cant see that this 
formed part of Mr Gs original complaint so Mr G will first need to raise his concerns with 
GPL. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that GPL mismanaged Mr Gs DMP. There is evidence of regular 
attempts by GPL to carry out financial reviews although Mr G wasnt always willing or able to 
do so. GPL regularly requested updates from creditors and sent Mr G financial statements. 
GPL continued to negotiate reduced payments and interest rate freezes with Mr Gs 
creditors before the DMP completed in 2019. It follows that I dont require GPL to refund any 
charges. I appreciate this is likely to disappoint Mr G.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman