DRN-3975009
The complaint
Mr O complains about the quality of a caravan he has been financing through an agreement 
with Black Horse Limited, who Ill call Black Horse.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr O, but I dont think theres sufficient evidence to suggest this 
caravan was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to him.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr O acquired his caravan under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the caravan should 
have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Black Horse are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a caravan the other relevant circumstances would include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the caravan was supplied to Mr O. This caravan 
was brand new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults when 
supplied.
Mr O took receipt of the caravan in December 2018 but the damp thats been the cause of 
his complaint wasnt identified until late 2021. Black Horse are only responsible for the 
quality of the caravan when it was supplied, so Ive considered whether the damp thats now 
present is likely to have been developing from the point of supply, or if the presence of damp 
suggests the caravan hasnt been durable, as thats something the relevant legislation says 
we should consider in these types of cases.
Given the time its taken for damp to be reported on this caravan I think, and the relevant 
legislation would support, that the onus was on Mr O to demonstrate the damp had been 
developing from the point the caravan was supplied to him. Ive not seen evidence that was 
the case and Im not therefore persuaded the caravans current faults were present or 
developing when the caravan was supplied.
Neither do I think I have sufficient evidence the caravan hasnt been durable. It should have 
been serviced in 2019 and 2020 and I think if that service schedule had been followed its 
likely that any damp that was forming could have been rectified before damage occurred. Im 
persuaded its therefore likely the damage thats now been reported has been exacerbated 
by a lack of servicing and it wouldnt be fair to suggest the caravan hadnt been durable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman