DRN-4012022
The complaint
Mr U is unhappy with the way that Barclays Bank UK PLC have dealt with his mortgage 
application. 
What happened
Mr U wanted to borrow some additional money from Barclays and an appointment was made 
on 9 June 2021 to discuss this. The adviser called Mr U just before the appointment letting 
him know that an EWS1 was required as part of the application. Once this was obtained on 
the same day, the appointment was cancelled as the adviser was unwell. Mr U logged an 
official complaint with Barclays. Barclays said that they could have made things clearer at 
the outset, so they offered Mr U £150 in recognition of this. 
A further appointment was scheduled for 16 June 2021. Mr U remained unhappy with the 
way that Barclays had handled things and explained to the adviser that he wasnt prepared 
to pay a product fee for the new mortgage and wanted this waived for compensation. 
Because of this, the adviser was unable to proceed with the appointment as he could not 
agree to that. Mr U said he made several calls to Barclays to express his dissatisfaction 
about the service he had received from them.
Another appointment was made on 2 July 2021 and an application was made for £134,000. 
Mr U said he tried to contact the adviser after this appointment as he wanted to increase the 
borrowing so he could borrow up to 75% of the property value  so he wanted to borrow 
£136,500 in total. Mr U said the adviser wasnt responding to him in a timely manner and 
found this incredibly frustrating. Barclays awarded Mr U an additional £200 for these delays.  
Eventually, a new offer for the increased amount was issued on 31 August 2021 and the 
funds were released to Mr U on 9 September 2021.
Mr U didnt agree with the amount of compensation that Barclays had offered him and said 
he was not happy with how they dealt with his application. So he brought the complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our 
investigator agreed that Barclays could have handled things better but thought that the 
amount of compensation they offered was enough.
Mr U disagreed and said the amount that Barclays offered him given the impact it had on 
him, was too small. 
As Mr U remained unhappy, he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, 
so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive taken into consideration everything that Mr U has said, and I know he feels very strongly 
about his complaint. He has provided detailed comments in support of his views which I can 
confirm Ive read and understood in their entirety. However, I trust that Mr U will not take the 
fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are 
expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to 
address every point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. 
Barclays have provided numerous telephone calls and contact notes which I have listened to 
and reviewed. I can see that Mr U had an appointment booked with an adviser at Barclays 
on 9 June 2021. The adviser called just prior to the appointment letting Mr U know that due 
to the property that Mr U owned, an EWS1 form was required.  While on the telephone call, 
Mr U emailed the management agent and during the telephone call, the EWS1 form was 
sent to Mr U  who forwarded this to Barclays. 
The adviser said she would call Mr U back at the appointment time which was due shortly 
after as she had some preparation to do beforehand. The advisers manager then called Mr 
U to tell him that the adviser was not able to make the appointment after all as she was 
unwell. And because the adviser was unwell, they had to reschedule the appointment. 
Although the issue here is not the fact that Barclays asked for the EWS1, but the fact that 
they didnt let Mr U know beforehand that it was needed, for completeness, Ill explain what 
the EWS1 is. 
The EWS1 form was introduced in collaboration between government, the mortgage industry 
and the surveying industry following the Grenfell Tower tragedy. The fire at Grenfell Tower 
led to concerns across the country about the possibility of combustible cladding and other 
fire safety issues which might allow fire to spread quickly through affected buildings. 
The EWS1 process was designed, among other things, to give mortgage lenders enough 
information to decide whether a building presented a particular fire safety risk. Lenders will 
only lend where the property subject to the mortgage is good security for the loan.
General guidance to surveyors and valuers from their professional body is that an EWS1 will 
be required where there are potential cladding or other issues, and the building is six storeys 
or higher. And that an EWS1 may be required for smaller buildings too, if there are grounds 
for considering theres a risk that needs to be assessed. 
In common with other lenders, Barclays took these issues into account in setting their 
lending criteria for lending mortgages on properties in blocks of flats and similar buildings. 
In this instance, Barclays required an EWS1 form before they could proceed with the 
mortgage application. I do agree with Mr U that they should have informed him sooner that 
this was a requirement  and shouldnt have left it until the day of the mortgage appointment. 
As I mentioned earlier, Mr U sent the EWS1 form within a few minutes of the telephone call 
taking place. But as this appointment didnt go through on this day, a further appointment 
was then made on 16 June 2021 so that Mr U could proceed with the mortgage application.
While I understand Mr Us frustration surrounding this, I do think that the £150 Barclays 
offered in this situation was fair and reasonable. An appointment was made a week later to 
proceed with the application and the advisers illness would have been an unforeseen 
circumstance, so it wasnt unreasonable for another appointment to be booked in - so I think 
the amount offered was fair. 
The mortgage appointment took place on 16 June 2021 and after listening to this call, Mr U 
wasnt prepared to pay the product fee as he felt this was a reasonable amount to waive due 
to the issues he had encountered with Barclays. He had already complained to Barclays 
several times and explained he wanted compensation for how things had been handled. The adviser explained to Mr U that he couldnt proceed without the product fee as he wasnt 
the one dealing with the actual complaints made, and in order to proceed, Mr U would need 
to pay the product fee for the interest rate that he wanted to apply for. The application didnt 
go through on this day. I cant say that this is because Barclays did anything wrong or 
treated Mr U unfairly. Barclays had a process to follow, and the application could have 
proceeded on this day, but Mr U wasnt prepared to pay the fee that was required. The 
adviser wasnt the one dealing with the actual complaint so wouldnt be able to agree to 
waive any fees. There also isnt any reason why the amount of compensation would amount 
to the product fee  this would be for Barclays to decide.
An appointment was then made on 2 July 2021 where the application was completed. I can 
see from the application form that it states that Mr U wanted to borrow £134,000. Mr U says 
he told the adviser he wanted to borrow up to 75% of the property value so the amount he 
wanted to borrow was worked out incorrectly. But the notes I have seen on the application 
form dont relate to Mr U wanting to borrow 75% of the property value  only that he wanted 
to borrow £134,000. So I cant say that Barclays made an error with the amount.
Mr U then contacted Barclays after the application was made to say that he wanted to 
borrow more money and he said the adviser didnt get back to him on time. I do agree that 
having looked at the contact notes, that the adviser could have responded to Mr U sooner 
than they did  in order to increase the amount he wanted to borrow. However, Barclays did 
recognise this, and they offered Mr U £200 in recognition of this. I do think this is a 
reasonable amount under the circumstances and incorporates the delays that Mr U 
encountered. 
Its evident that there have been some issues with the mortgage application and things that 
Barclays could have handled better. I appreciate that Mr U isnt happy with the amount that 
Barclays have offered him and would like further compensation. I also understand that he 
says the delays have impacted him and caused him stress and inconvenience as he was 
trying to sort things out while trying to balance his work. However, Im satisfied, having 
looked at everything, that what Barclays have offered in these circumstances is reasonable 
and reflects the issues encountered during the application process  so I wont be asking 
them to pay any further compensation.
I know that Mr U will be disappointed with my decision, but I wont be asking Barclays to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Maria DruryOmbudsman