DRN-1732219
 
The complaint
Mr F says that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
In 2001, Mr F applied by post for a credit card and at the same time he took out PPI. The 
policy gave him accident, sickness and unemployment protection, and included some life 
cover. 
Our adjudicator thought Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. Capital One disagreed so the 
case was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont think that Capital One recommended the PPI policy to Mr F. This means it didnt need 
to check if the policy was suitable for him. But it still needed to give Mr F enough information 
about the policy for him to decide if it met his needs, and he wanted to take it out.  From 
what Ive seen, I dont think it did this.
Capital One has provided a copy of the Mr Fs application form and the policy document he 
 would have received after hed agreed to take PPI. This states that all protection ends at the 
age of 65, or on retirement. But I cant see this was made clear to Mr F at the time of the 
sale. 
And I think this would have mattered to Mr F. I say this because, when the policy was sold to 
Mr F, he had only around 18 months before he reached the state retirement age of 65. This 
meant that, if at some stage hed needed to claim for an accident or period of sickness that 
lasted until after that age, he wouldnt have received the full benefits that would otherwise 
have been payable by his policy. And he would have only been able to receive the maximum 
benefit for unemployment under the policy - of twelve monthly payments - until he reached 
the age of 64. This would have been only around six months after he was sold the policy. 
So having thought carefully about Mr Fs circumstances at the time of this sale, I dont think 
he would still have wanted to take out the policy if hed known that the benefits he might 
receive from it could be restricted in this way because of his age. I think its most likely that 
he would have thought the policy wasnt suitable for him and decided not to take it.Ive thought about what Capital One has said about the fact that Mr F was eligible for the 
policy at the time of the sale, but for the reasons set out above this hasnt changed my 
conclusion.
Putting things right
Capital One should put Mr F in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out 
PPI. I understand the PPI policy was cancelled in 2005. But as far as I know, the credit card 
accounts still open. So: 
A. Capital One should find out how much Mr F would owe on his credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Capital One should then refund the difference between what Mr F owes and what he 
wouldve owed.
If Mr F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Capital One can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him. It can also deduct any commission 
refund it has already paid.
B. If  when Capital One works out what Mr F wouldve owed each month without PPI  
Mr F paid more than enough to clear his balance, Capital One should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr F paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mr F wouldve owed Capital One something on his card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
 
C. Capital One should tell Mr F what its done to work out A and B.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Capital One to take off tax from this interest. Capital 
One must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
My decision is I am upholding this complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc. It must now 
put things right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman