DRN-4197970
The complaint
Miss J complains that Studio Retail Limited incorrectly sold a debit in relation to a running 
credit account she had with it.
What happened
Miss J had a running credit account with Studio. She says that it was subsequently included 
in a Minimal Asset Process bankruptcy (MAP) which she entered into in March 2019. Miss J 
says that despite being discharged from the MAP later that year, Studio incorrectly sold a 
debt relating to the account to a debt collection agent. Miss J became aware in May 2022 
and raised a complaint with Studio about the trouble and upset shed been caused. She said 
that Studio ought to have ceased pursuit of the debt when the MAP was discharged.
Studio didnt agree. It said, in summary, that the terms of Miss Js agreement with it allowed 
it to sell a debt associated with the account at any time. It didnt think it had done anything 
wrong by selling the account, so it didnt uphold the complaint. 
Miss J disagreed, so she referred the matter to this service. In doing so she said that the 
debt collection agent had closed its account, removed information relating to it from Miss Js 
credit file and paid her £100 compensation for the trouble and upset shed been caused.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They were satisfied that the account in question had 
been included in Miss Js MAP and was discharged in September 2019. They said Studio 
ought to have stopped pursuing the debt at that point, so it was unfair for Studio to have 
subsequently sold it. They acknowledged that Miss J had already been given £100 
compensation by the debt purchaser, but said that Studio ought to have known that the debt 
had been included in a MAP and shouldnt have been sold. They recommended that Studio 
pay Miss J a further £150 compensation and to ensure that the account is reported correctly 
with credit reference agencies.
Studio disagreed. It said;
- The account in question was opened using Miss Js middle name. 
- It was the responsibility of the debt purchaser to check whether the account had 
been involved in a MAP, but it was likely unable to have recognised that this one had 
due to the account being in a different name to the one featured on the MAP. 
- The debt purchaser took responsibility for what happened and compensated Miss J 
already. 
Our investigator pointed out that Studios notes suggested it was aware the account had 
been included in Miss Js MAP, and she disagreed that it was the debt purchasers sole 
responsibility to identify that. They maintained that Studio ought reasonably to have known 
that it shouldnt have sold the account at the point it did, and it should therefore compensate 
Miss J with £150 for the trouble and upset caused.
Although Miss J agreed with our investigators recommendations, Studio didnt. It asked for 
an ombudsmans decision on the case, so it was passed to me. 
I issued a provisional decision on the case. In summary, I said;
At the outset I consider it necessary to address the issue which Studio raised in relation to 
the account in question being opened using Miss Js middle name. For clarity, like our 
investigator, Im satisfied that the account belonged to Miss J. I dont know why the account 
was opened using her middle name, but given the events that subsequently played out, I 
dont think its necessary to establish why in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this case would be. 
From the evidence which has been provided Im persuaded that Miss Js account with Studio 
was included in a MAP in 2019 and the debt ought to have been discharged later in that 
same year. Like our investigator, I think that Studio ought reasonably to have been aware 
that was the case, even if there was some ambiguity regarding the name on the account. It 
follows that I find Studio ought not to have sold Miss Js account to a debt collection agent, 
as it ought to have been discharged by that point. 
Given that I dont think Studio ought to have sold the account, its for me to decide how it 
ought to put things right for Miss J. From whats been said, it seems that the debt collection 
agent has already taken steps towards this  weve been told its closed the account, 
removed information in relation to it with credit reference agencies and paid Miss J £100 
compensation. The issue thats left for me to decide is whether or not Studio ought to pay 
Miss J more compensation for the same issue. 
Ive given careful consideration to what Miss J said the impact of Studios mistake was, and I 
accept it wouldve been worrying to be asked for payment in relation to a debt which ought to 
have been discharged. Importantly, the awards this service makes are not punitive  theyre 
simply reflective of the extent of the impact of a business mistake on consumers. So, whilst 
Studio might not have offered any compensation towards the impact on Miss J, she has 
already been paid £100 for whats happened. In my view that sum is reasonable 
compensation taking everything thats happened into account. 
In summary, I accept that Studio ought not to have sold Miss Js account. For her to have 
found out that it had done so following contact from a debt collection agent must have been 
worrying. But I think its fair to say that Miss J was reasonably aware that that account in 
question had been included in her MAP, so she had no responsibility to make payments 
towards it. The debt collection agent seems to have taken appropriate steps to prevent Miss 
J from being pursued for the debt further and has provided what I consider to be an 
appropriate level of compensation. So, I dont think itd be reasonable to require Studio to 
pay further compensation for the same event.
Lastly, Miss J hasnt raised any issue with this service regarding how Studio has recorded 
the account with credit reference agencies. Nonetheless I remind Studio of its responsibility 
to record accurate information about the account.  
I concluded that Studio didnt need to do anything to put things right.
Studio again raised questions regarding the account being opened using Miss Js middle 
name. It said that had that not been the case, the MAP wouldve been identified sooner, and 
it wouldnt have been sold. It ultimately accepted my provisional decision.
Miss J said that Studio made a mistake and hadnt paid any compensation for that. She also 
said that Studio ought to be punished. She maintained that Studio ought to pay compensation to put things right. 
The case has been passed back to me to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that either party has responded to my provisional decision with 
evidence which I consider materially new. As such, I find no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision; that Miss J has already been fairly compensated for the trouble and 
upset shes been caused. I will, however, specifically address the further points both parties 
made. 
I acknowledge the points Studio has made about the name on the account. I accept that it 
couldve caused some ambiguity in identifying that the account had been included in a MAP. 
That being said, I dont think it matters now in deciding whether or not theres anything left 
for Studio to do to put things right in the context of this complaint. 
With reference to the points made by Miss J, as my provisional decision explained, I accept 
that shes been caused trouble and upset by being asked to repay sums owed under a debt 
from which her liability ought to have been discharged. That being said, I maintain that the 
£100 compensation Miss J was paid by the debt collection agent is sufficient in the 
circumstances. Particularly taking into account that Miss J ought reasonably to have been 
aware that her liability to repay the debt had been discharged.
As my provisional decision explained, this service does not make punitive awards. So, taking 
that into account, and considering that Miss J has already been paid what I consider to be a 
reasonable sum of compensation for what happened  whether it was paid by Studio or not 
 I do not find that Studio needs to do anything to now put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman