DRN-3185794
The complaint
Mr A has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited didnt properly service his boiler 
annually under the terms of the Homecare policy he held with it. 
What happened
Mr A bought a homecare policy with British Gas and as part of the cover it provided Mr A 
with an annual service of his boiler. 
Mr A said two pipes had burst at different times. When the second pipe burst, an 
independent engineer told Mr A that the boiler hadnt been serviced in line with the 
manufacturers service standard. 
Mr A complained to British Gas. He provided a copy of an email exchange between him and 
the manufacturer. Mr A believed British Gas should have carried out a more thorough 
service. He said if it had, the pipes may not have burst. Mr A thought it was possible that the 
boiler was running less efficiently as a result of what he found to be a limited service over the 
years to his boiler. 
British Gas replied to Mr As complaint in September 2021. It didnt uphold his complaint. It 
said it had carried out an annual service as it defined under the policy. 
Mr A remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He wanted compensation for 
the lack of proper servicing of his boiler, for British Gas to cover the costs of the damage to 
his home as a result of the burst pipes, for having to seek alternative accommodation and to 
refund two excesses he said hed paid. 
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr As complaint should be upheld. He found that British 
Gas had acted reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mr A didnt agree. In summary he believes British Gas should do more when carrying out an 
annual service. 
So as Mr A doesnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As policy with British Gas provides cover for repairs in the event of damage or 
breakdown to the boiler. Included in that cover is an annual service. British Gas provides a 
definition of what it means by an annual service within the policy wording. It says:
annual service
- a check in each period of agreement to ensure that your boiler, gas appliance or 
central heating, and ventilation is working safely and in line with relevant laws and 
regulations.
And British Gas provides further details of what happens during the check in as follows:
One of our engineers will visit your home to complete your annual service. This will 
include testing the gasses your appliance or boiler produces.
If the visit shows that its necessary to take your appliance or boiler apart to adjust or 
clean it, well do so.
During the visit, our engineer will fill in a checklist that shows you exactly what weve 
looked at. If we find a problem or fault that needs to be fixed, well tell you about it.
If your product:
 includes repairs and has an excess or fixed fee you will have to pay this before we 
repair it; or
 is service only, our engineer may give you a quote to have the work done
I appreciate that Mr A is of the view that British Gas hasnt carried out an annual service to 
the manufacturers standard. In the email exchange between Mr A and the manufacturer V, 
V said there are two types of service: an annual safety check and a full service. 
Ultimately its for Mr A to decide which service he wishes to have  but having read the 
terms and conditions of the Homecare policy he holds with British Gas; Im satisfied it made 
it clear what was involved in its annual service. And so for this reason, I cannot say that 
British Gas has acted unreasonably. I think its shown that it provided an annual service in 
line with the terms of the policy. 
I havent seen any evidence to show that the way British Gas carried out its service has 
resulted in Mr As boiler operating less efficiently or led to the burst pipes. And so I dont 
think British Gas is responsible for the disruption caused as a result of the burst pipes  or 
for Mr A having to pay the excesses he did when he made a claim.
I appreciate that Mr A will be very disappointed with my decision. But from what Ive seen, I 
think British Gas has dealt with his complaint in a reasonable way. So Im not asking it to do 
any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman