DRN-3987732
The complaint
Mr L complains that TSB Bank plc unfairly terminated his application for a new interest rate 
deal. And he complains that his mortgage was originally mis-sold by TSB.
What happened
Mr L took a mortgage with TSB (then Cheltenham and Gloucester) in 2009. The information 
available indicates it was likely that was for approximately £130,000, with a term of 30 years 
and set up on and interest only basis. He says that was mis-sold because the term would 
run into his retirement, he wasnt given the option to fix his rate and it should have been set 
up on a self-certified income basis because hes always been self-employed.
In 2021 Mr L made an application for a new product transfer  a fixed rate of 1.99%. Mr L 
says he provided TSB  via his local branch  with a copy of his bank statement as it had 
requested. And he says the only thing missing from the statement was a payment hed made 
to his sister as he didnt want to share her bank details. Following that he spent some time in 
hospital and came home to find two missed calls from TSB. TSB cancelled his application. 
The manager in his local branch said hed sort out the problem but after about five months, 
hadnt made any progress. So, Mr L met with the mortgage advisor in the branch who 
arranged a 2.44% fixed rate product transfer. Mr L complained to TSB.
In its final response letter dated 30 March 2022, TSB said it hadnt made a mistake. It said it 
required confirmation of the Department of Work and Pensions (DWP) benefits Mr L 
received  either in the form of an entitlement letter from the DWP, or an original bank 
statement. TSB said Mr L only provided page three of a bank statement which didnt show 
his name or account details. It said he was told by the mortgage adviser TSB could not 
accept statements with items crossed out.
TSB said, throughout December 2021, the mortgage adviser called Mr L on several 
occasions to see how he wanted to proceed with the application. But as he didnt hear back 
from Mr L, in January 2022, TSB made the decision to cancel the application. TSB says it 
didnt hear from Mr L again about the application until February 2022. At that time he was 
informed TSB was unable to reopen the application and he would need to submit a new one, 
based on mortgage rates that were available at that time.
With regard to the mis-sale of the original mortgage, TSB said it received a complaint about 
that in 2010 via a claims management company (CMC). And, as it responded to that 
complaint then, it would not do so again now  or offer new referral rights to this Service.
Dissatisfied with TSBs response, Mr L asked us to consider his complaint. With regard to  
Mr Ls complaint about the mis-sale of his mortgage, our investigator explained that we dont 
have the power to consider its merits. Thats because Mr L brought it to us too late  more 
than six months after TSB had responded to his original complaint about that in 2010. But 
our investigator said we can consider the merits of his complaint about TSBs handling of his 
more recent interest rate product application. Mr L agreed so our investigator proceeded to 
consider his complaint about the interest rate product application.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint about his interest rate product application. He 
said from the evidence available, he didnt think TSB caused the delay in Mr L getting a new 
interest rate product. And he didnt think it was unfair for TSB to cancel Mr Ls application 
when it did.
Mr L didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision about TSBs 
handling of his interest rate product application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Mr Ls complaint, Ive thought about whether it was fair for TSB to cancel Mr Ls 
application for a new interest rate product when it did, based on the evidence available.
TSB has provided copies of illustrations it produced for Mr L in November 2021 and an 
application declaration that was issued to Mr L on 22 November 2021. But Ive not seen that 
it produced a mortgage offer in respect of that application. That makes sense given what 
TSB has said about the progress made on the application. TSB says it didnt receive the 
information it asked for, so couldnt fully assess Mr Ls application and, as a result the 
application didnt proceed to offer stage. So, I think it likely that TSB made no promises to  
Mr L that he would be given the rate he applied for in November 2021. Illustrations only 
show what may be available to a successful applicant and are not binding in either party.
Mr L says he provided a full bank statement to his local branch and only one transaction was 
crossed out. I think if that were the case, it should have satisfied TSBs requirements, 
providing it verified the DWP benefits Mr L had said he was receiving. But TSB says only the 
last page of the bank statement was provided and that didnt show that it was Mr Ls bank 
statement.
Aside from Mr Ls testimony the only evidence available about what he submitted to branch 
is what is documented in TSBs records of the application. Ive considered those carefully. 
From those notes, I can see that on 18 November 2021, Mr L said hed go into the branch 
the following Saturday with proof of his benefits being paid into his bank account. TSB also 
sent the mortgage application for Mr L to sign at that time  which was also to be returned 
via the branch. A note from 29 November 2021 says Mr L called TSB saying hed been into 
the branch on Saturday 27 November 2021 with his bank statement. But the note also says 
no-one at the branch saw Mr L and no documentation was taken. TSB spoke to Mr L on       
2 December 2021 and he said hed return to the branch with the required documentation.
TSBs note dated 9 December 2021 says Mr L went into the branch and provided a signed 
application declaration and a signed interest only declaration. But it says he only provided 
page three of his bank statement. While that did show receipt of his benefits, it didnt show 
his name, and the sort code and account number were redacted. It says an attempt to 
contact Mr L was made to tell him all three pages were needed but there was no answer 
from Mr L. A voicemail message was left the following day.
TSBs notes show that it was able to speak to Mr L on 14 December 2021  while he was in 
hospital. The notes say hed destroyed pages one and two of the statement for security 
reasons, so hed not be able to provide them. And hed redact the account number and sort 
code in any event. TSB asked if he had a copy of a benefits entitlement letter and Mr L said 
he didnt. The notes indicate TSB tried to call Mr L at least three times in the week that 
followed but no calls were answered. The notes also confirm the application was cancelled 
on 4 January 2022.I acknowledge that TSBs notes only show TSBs version of events and Mr L doesnt agree 
with them. However, I am persuaded by the level of detail in TSBs notes that theyre likely to 
be accurate. Ive seen from those notes that TSB made considerable effort to contact Mr L to 
get the matter resolved. The notes also indicate that TSB carried out a significant amount of 
underwriting work, there was a willingness to proceed on its part and all that was required 
was Mr Ls bank statement showing evidencing his benefit payments. I think it was 
reasonable for TSB to expect that the bank statements could be identified as belonging to  
Mr L so that it had evidence of the benefit payment he received.
Mr L says that he took his full statements to the branch. But given the apparent willingness 
on the part of TSB to proceed with his application, I dont think its likely that TSB would say 
it only received one page if it actually received all three. So, on balance, I havent seen 
sufficient evidence to persuade me that TSB was at fault in that regard.
I understand that Mr L was in hospital for at least some of December 2021. He hasnt 
provided details of how long he was in hospital for. And I appreciate that he would have 
wanted some time to recuperate after his hospital stay. But I wouldnt expect TSB to hold a 
rate for him indefinitely, particularly as it had received no contact from him or a 
representative over several weeks. So, I dont think TSB cancelled his application unfairly or 
prematurely.  That means I dont uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman