DRN-2419690
The complaint
Mr A complains that Unicom insurance Services Limited cancelled his commercial motor 
insurance policy for his motor trade business. He wants a refund of his premium and 
compensation. 
What happened
Unicom asked Mr A for proof that he was still trading in the motor business or else it would 
cancel his policy. It explained what documents it would accept as proof of trading. Mr A 
provided some documents, but Unicom didnt then tell him that they werent sufficient. 
Six months later, Unicom gave Mr A seven days notice to provide further proof or it would 
cancel. It then cancelled the policy. Mr A thought this was unfair as nowhere in the policy 
does it state that he cant trade with just one vehicle.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr A 
hadnt provided sufficient evidence to show that he was a motor trader full time. She thought 
Unicom had given Mr A enough time to provide the evidence. And she thought the policy 
documents entitled it to ask for this and cancel the policy if it wasnt sufficient. 
Mr A replied that he thought Unicom hadnt given him enough time to sort out problems with 
his car and to sell it. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr As frustration that his policy was cancelled rather than not renewed. 
Hes told us that the repairing garage hadnt properly repaired the car he was trying to sell. I 
was sorry to hear of the financial effects this has had for him. 
Unicom has acted in this matter as an agent of the insurer, so Ive considered whether it has 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mr A contacted Unicom in the third month of his policy to say that he was no longer trading. 
He was told that he would need to pay 55% of his premium to cancel. So Mr A said he 
wouldnt cancel.
Unicom then told Mr A the policy wouldnt be cancelled, but it said it wanted proof of his 
trading in one months time. Unicom provided Mr A with a list of acceptable evidence. Mr A 
then sent a document to Unicom and asked if this was sufficient. Unicom thought this was 
enough for the present but it would want further evidence in six months time. 
But unfortunately, Unicom didnt then tell Mr A this. Ive seen from Unicoms file notes that it 
tried to call Mr A, but without success. And then it decided to request proof of trade nearer to 
the renewal date. 
Seven months later, Unicom asked Mr A for proof of his trading over the past six months. 
The evidence requested was the same as previously requested and as set out in the policy 
booklet. The policy documents also stated that failure to provide sufficient evidence could 
lead to the policy being cancelled. 
Mr As policy schedule states that hes a full-time trader. Hed told Unicom that he was no 
longer trading but had then resumed. So I think it was reasonable for Unicom to ask for proof 
of his trading. And I think the evidence it asked for wasnt unusual or unfair. 
Mr A explained that he had one car he was trying to sell but was hampered by poor repairs 
made to it. The policy doesnt state that Mr A has to have more than one car to trade. But I 
think this doesnt substantiate Mr As claim that he was full-time in the motor trade as this 
would be his only source of income. 
Unicom then gave Mr A seven days cancellation notice unless he provided the proof of 
trading. It didnt receive this, and so the policy was cancelled. 
I think it was for Mr A to give a fair presentation of his circumstances to Unicom. I think Mr A 
hadnt provided sufficient evidence that he was a full-time trader in the previous six months. I 
think Unicom gave him reasonable time to provide this evidence. And so I think Unicom 
acted within the policy terms and conditions and fairly and reasonably when it cancelled the 
policy. These state that theres no refund of premium in the case of cancellation after four 
months. So I cant say that Unicom needs to give Mr A any refund of his premium.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman