DRN-3308314
The complaint
Mr J and Ms H complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund the money they 
lost when they were the victims of a scam. 
What happened
The payments in this case were made from a joint account held by Mr J and Ms H but as Mr 
J completed the transactions, Ill mainly refer to him in this decision. 
What Mr J says
Mr J was looking to invest and left his contact details on the site of a company Ill call B. 
Shortly after he received a call from B and discussed a managed trading account 
programme. Mr J was required to send identification and anti-money laundering documents 
and was given access to a platform to monitor his investment. 
In January 2019 Mr J made the international payments listed in the table below to a 
consulting company for the purposes of investing with B. 
Date Amount
23/01/19 £18,032.64
31/01/19 £26,848.04
Total  £44,880.68
When B stopped communicating with Mr J and didnt return his funds, he realised he was the 
victim of a scam. He tried to establish what had happened through other organisations and 
then tried to call Barclays but says that although he waited hours, he was unable to get 
through and couldnt spend any more time trying. Mr J then looked for a suitable solicitor to 
represent him.
Mr J says B told him it was regulated but he later found out this wasnt the case. In fact, T 
wasnt registered with any of the globally recognised financial services authorities. Also, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published a warning about B in September 2018, before 
Mr J invested, and B was expelled from the Financial Commission in the same month.
Mr J says that Barclays should refund his lost funds because it acted recklessly in not 
making appropriate enquiries before allowing large and out of character transfers to be 
made. He says Barclays should have been on notice that B wasnt providing a genuine 
service and was scamming Mr J. As well as a refund of the amount he lost in the scam, Mr J 
asked Barclays to pay him £1,000 for the poor service he says he received. 
What Barclays say
Barclays say it received a letter of complaint from Mr Js solicitor in October 2020 and issued 
a final response letter on 8 December 2020. In its final response letter Barclays said Mr J 
hadnt contacted it about a scam and that it would need to investigate before it could provide 
a decision. Barclays asked Mr J to call its fraud team. Mr J didnt call as requested so when 
the complaint was brought to this service Barclays hadnt been able to investigate or make 
any attempt to recover Mr Js funds. And as Mr J hadnt contacted Barclays about a scam it 
hadnt provided poor service. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint asked Mr J to call Barclays to report the 
scam. His legal representative responded and said that both Mr J and his representative had 
tried to call Barclays but had waited for long periods to get through and Mr J had been 
advised of a wait time of an hour. Mr Js representative felt this wait time was unreasonable 
when Barclays already have the details of the scam. 
Mr J reported the scam to Barclays on 16 March 2021 and Barclays contacted the 
beneficiary bank that same day. The receiving bank responded on 7 April 2021 saying the 
account had been closed and funds couldnt be recovered.
The investigator then reviewed Mr Js complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. He 
didnt believe the payments Mr J made were unusual or suspicious in appearance to 
Barclays given Mr Js normal account activity. In particular, Mr J had a history of high value 
payments and after the scam payments Mr Js account balance remained high. As nothing 
stood out, it was reasonable of Barclays not to have intervened. In terms of the service 
provided the investigator agreed that waiting for his fraud call to be answered would have 
been frustrating for Mr J but didnt award any compensation. Finally, the investigator said 
that even if Barclays had contacted the receiving bank on receipt of the letter of complaint 
from his solicitor it was most unlikely any funds would remain. This was because Mr Js 
solicitor contacted it around 18 months after the payments were made.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for a final decision, so his 
complaint has been passed to me. In summary he said:
- It is unfair that because he has made high value transfers before and is well-off 
Barclays provide him with less protection than if he wasnt. 
- Barclays should have been aware from the FCA warning that the account he was 
sending funds to was fraudulent and should have communicated this to him.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have 
taken that into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Im sorry Mr J and Ms H have had to contact us in these circumstances - I cant begin to 
imagine the impact of losing such a significant amount of money. I accept theyve been the 
victims of a cruel scam, but I need to decide if Barclays did enough to protect them from the 
loss they suffered and what, if anything, ought to be done to put things right. Based on what 
Ive seen, I dont think Barclays need to do anything further. I understand that Im delivering 
a very difficult message and Id like to reassure Mr J and Ms H that Ive carefully considered 
their complaint before reaching this decision. 
Did Barclays act fairly and reasonably in Mr J and Ms Hs case?
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice Barclays should have 
been on the lookout for out of character or unusual transactions. So Ive first considered 
whether the payment requests Mr J and Ms H made were out of character and unusual.
Having reviewed Mr J and Ms Hs bank statements for the 12-month period before the scam 
Im satisfied the payment requests werent so unusual or suspicious given Mr J and Ms Hs 
normal account activity that Barclays should have taken further action. I say this because 
there are numerous transactions for significantly greater sums in the period before the scam 
transactions including multiple payments of £100,000 on the same day and substantial 
payments to investment companies. In the circumstances, payments of £18,032.64 and 
£26,848.04 wouldnt stand out as unusual or suspicious. 
Mr J has said he is offered less protection because he is well off. The test is whether a 
payment is unusual for a particular customer. There is a balance to be struck between 
allowing customers to transact business and questioning transactions to confirm they are 
legitimate. If the same figure was used for all accounts a large number of Mr Js genuine 
payments would be blocked causing unnecessary delay and frustration. 
I note Mr Js comments about the FCA warning that was first published on 5 September 
2018, so before Mr J transferred funds. First of all, Id only expect Barclays to intervene if a 
payment was unusual and Ive concluded above this wasnt the case. 
Also, there are numerous warnings on the FCA register so I dont consider it would be 
reasonable for bank staff to know every single one of them. If the payments had been 
unusual, Id have expected Barclays staff to have asked if Mr J and Ms H had checked the 
FCA register and what other checks theyd completed, but it wasnt Barclays responsibility 
to undertake all the checks itself. 
Recovery
I appreciate that Mr J experienced delays when he tried to report his loss to Barclays and 
that this must have been frustrating. But there was nothing Barclays could do until Mr J 
notified it of the scam and the letter sent by Mr Js solicitor wasnt enough to allow Barclays 
to contract the receiving bank. This is because Barclays needed to discuss the detail of the 
scam and to deal with legal declarations. 
Im satisfied that Barclays acted promptly and reasonably following Mr Js call in March 
2021. Barclays contacted the receiving bank that same day but was advised the account had been closed. Fraudsters are very much alive to the processes of financial businesses when 
they are made aware of fraud. And in order to maximise their income from criminal activities, 
they tend to remove the funds from the beneficiary account very quickly. So even if Barclays 
had contacted the receiving bank in October 2020 its very unlikely any funds would have 
remained around eighteen months after the payments were made. Also, Mr Js payments 
were international meaning that the cooperation of the recipient is required for any funds to 
be returned. Given that the payments were made as part of a scam, I also consider it to be 
highly unlikely the recipient would agree to return the funds. 
In terms of the service provided by Barclays, I agree that it must have been frustrating trying 
to get through to report the scam and being kept on hold for lengthy periods. But I consider it 
would have been reasonable to report the scam as soon as possible after Mr J became 
aware that he was the victim of a scam. 
Overall
Im sorry Mr J and Ms H have had to contact us in these circumstances. I accept theyve 
been the victims of a cruel scam, but I cant reasonably hold Barclays responsible for their 
loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman