DRN-4301072
The complaint
Mr L complains that Sainsburys Bank plc (Sainsburys) declined a payment made using his 
Sainsburys bank card resulting in a missed delivery. He would like Sainsburys to have a 
system in place to avoid this. He would also like Sainsburys to honour the original £25 
compensation it offered, plus offer an apology.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate it must have been frustrating for Mr L to have his payment declined and 
thus miss his delivery slot. I have noted that in its final response letter  Sainsburys 
apologised for any  upset caused which is one of the redress points Mr L wanted.
Sainsburys has explained that the payment was declined as Mr L had his details 
saved with the merchant so the transaction couldnt go through the necessary 
authentication process. On this basis it doesnt seem unreasonable to me that the 
payment was declined
Sainsburys has also explained that although it does sometimes contact  customers 
if it has fraud concerns, in this case it would have expected the merchant to advise 
Mr L if it hadnt been able to take a payment. Its not for us to comment on or tell 
businesses what processes to use. So, I cant, as Mr L would like, tell Sainsburys to 
set up a system to always advise customers of issues with payments.
I appreciate Sainsburys offered Mr L £25 compensation, but Mr L declined this . As  
a result, Mr Ls complaint was escalated, investigated and a final response letter sent 
not offering any compensation as Sainsburys didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. I 
appreciate Mr L feels Sainsburys should honour this payment,  but I dont agree. Mr 
L turned down the payment when offered.  I think at this point the payment was likely 
to have been a gesture of goodwill not an admission of any fault. This was then 
superseded by an investigation that found no business error. On this basis I wouldnt 
have expected any compensation to be offered. And, having reviewed all the 
information I have been given, I dont feel Sainsburys has done anything wrong. So, 
on that basis I cant reasonably ask it to compensate Mr L
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman