DRN-3857198
The complaint
Ms R has complained about the handling of her legal expenses claim by Aviva Insurance 
Limited. 
Aviva uses agents to handle claims and complaints on its behalf, so where I refer to Aviva, 
this includes its agents. 
Ms R is also represented in this complaint but for ease, I will refer to Ms R throughout. 
What happened
Ms R made a claim under her policy as she wanted to take professional negligence 
proceedings against her former solicitor who acted for her in proceedings, which took place 
in 2020, relating to the sale of her parents property. A relative of Ms R had issued 
proceedings against her to enforce the terms of an agreement concerning the sale of the 
property. Ms R did not succeed in those proceedings and was ordered to pay her relatives 
costs. Ms R said the outcome of the hearing and the costs order were as a result of the 
professional negligence of the solicitors that were acting for her at the time. 
In July 2021, Aviva agreed to appoint one of its panel of pre-approved solicitors to assess 
the claim. The panel solicitor provided his advice to Ms R in August 2021 stating that he did 
not think her case had reasonable prospects of success. Ms R did not accept the advice and 
wrote with several objections. Aviva initially said it would be for Ms R to provide her own 
legal opinion in support of her claim, if she did not agree with the solicitors opinion, and it 
was not obliged to provide any further funding. However, Aviva subsequently agreed to fund 
the solicitor to consider some of the further information and arguments sent by Mr R and 
review his advice. 
On 29 October 2021, having considered Ms Rs emails (dated 8, 10 and 20 September 2021 
and enclosures) the solicitor said his opinion was still that the legal claim did not have 
reasonable prospects of succeeding and therefore that there was no claim under the policy.
The solicitor did not however read everything that Ms R had sent. In relation to this he said: 
There is no prospect of my advice changing on the basis of the material I have seen 
and I doubt very much that any of the material in the emails I have not read are going 
to change my view given the volume of material and arguments I have already 
considered.
Aviva refused to fund any further consideration of the claim but said again that Ms R could 
provide her own legal opinion, from a suitably qualified solicitor, and if it was supportive of 
her claim it would arrange for a barrister to then conduct a further review. If the barrister said 
there were prospects at that stage, it would then accept the claim. 
Ms R was very unhappy with this. She has made a number of points in support of her 
complaint. I have considered everything she has said but have summarised the main points 
below: 
The panel solicitor only reviewed what had happened since December 2019, which is 
only a fraction of the entire dispute which was going on for almost three years. 
The panel solicitor made several errors. 
The panel solicitor made the assumption that further information she sent would not 
change his opinion on the legal case but did not consider that evidence. 
No legal training is required to know this was not therefore a thorough review. 
She is the client and is entitled to have the facts recognised. 
Aviva wrote on 5 July 2021 to say that if Ms R disagreed with the decision made on 
the claim, she should revert back to Aviva with her reasons for further consideration 
but Aviva has failed to address her comments. So Aviva clearly lied in that letter. 
Shes required in the terms of the policy to cooperate with Aviva but it doesnt have to 
cooperate with her which is grossly unfair. 
It is recognised the prospects of success in a legal case can change as evidence is 
made available but the panel solicitor has not been allowed to consider the evidence 
that would without doubt mean that the prospects would go up. 
Any legal review Ms R paid for would not be the same as the panel solicitors review, 
as shed be forced to pay for what Aviva refused to pay for, i.e. an assessment of all 
the evidence from the whole dispute with her relatives. 
Aviva provided insurance cover of £100,000 but has unfairly restricted that to £6,000, 
which is the amount it has paid so far to the panel solicitor. 
Ms R wants her claim to be met and a specialist barrister to be instructed. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld, as he thought that Aviva was entitled to refuse cover on the basis of the panel 
solicitors expert opinion on the prospects of the case and as such, there was no cover under 
the policy. 
Ms R does not accept the Investigators assessment. She has said he referred to a review of 
further information by the panel solicitor but there was no review. Ms R also said it is 
documented fact that Aviva do not require a legal opinion from Ms R if she disagrees with 
the decision made on her claim, instead Aviva made an offer to reconsider, which it has 
since refused to honour and that the Investigator refused to acknowledge.
As the Investigator has been unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Rs policy, like most other legal expenses insurance policies, requires that all claims 
have reasonable prospects of success. This is generally interpreted to mean that the legal 
claim or defence must have a more than 51% chance of succeeding (in other words is more 
likely than not to succeed). We do not regard this as inherently unfair: a legal expenses 
insurer cannot reasonably be expected to fund expensive litigation the prospect of success 
of which are speculative or uncertain.
Ms Rs policy says:
     Our lawyer will assess the evidence and if it is more likely than not that you will
a. recover damages or obtain any other legal remedy which we have agreed to then your case will be considered by the lawyer to have prospects of success (this 
means how likely you are to win your case) In addition, the lawyer will also
consider proportionality (this means the amount of damages being pursued 
compared with the estimated costs to pursue your case), and 
Will estimate the likely costs of your case and consider if they would be acceptable to 
a reasonable person who was paying for those costs themselves
      If, in the lawyers opinion:
a. your case is likely to be considered a waste of court time, or
b. the prospects of success are no longer in your favour, or 
c. your claim has reached a point where incurring further costs and expenses would not 
be reasonable
then we will not pay any further costs and expenses towards it 
So it is a requirement of cover that the claim should always have reasonable prospects of 
success and be proportionate to pursue. Therefore, while the maximum indemnity under the 
policy might be £100,000, if there are no reasonable prospects of success then there is no 
obligation on Aviva to provide funding for any further legal costs. 
Where an insurer has rejected a claim for lack of prospects, it isnt for us to evaluate the
merits of the legal case. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has reached this decision 
fairly. So long as the insurer has obtained independent legal advice on prospects from 
suitably qualified lawyers, we will not generally question its reliance on that advice, unless 
we think it was obviously erroneous or based on factual mistakes. For the avoidance of 
doubt, Ive seen nothing in this case to justify such a conclusion.
 
Legal expenses insurers appoint solicitors in the knowledge that they must adhere to the 
rules and ethics of their profession and are ultimately accountable to their own professional 
body. I have no reason to conclude that the panel solicitor had insufficient expertise to 
assess the claim or was otherwise inappropriate for Aviva to have appointed.
The panel solicitor set out detailed reasoning for his conclusions in a 13 page letter in 
August 2021. He also referred to having had a long conversation with Ms R on 11 August 
2021, before sending his written advice. The conclusion of the panel solicitor was that there 
were not reasonable prospects of success in the legal claim Ms R wants to bring. The panel 
solicitor said: I hesitate to say your claim against  [the former solicitors] is hopeless but on 
these key points I believe it is very weak. 
The panel solicitor also considered some further information provided by Ms R and provided 
further written responses to some of the objections and points raised by Ms R. I can see that 
the panel solicitor explained why he did not think that a court would give as much weight to 
the behaviour of Ms Rs relatives as shed like and that most of the issues that had taken 
place before an agreement signed by Ms R and her relatives in December 2019 were not 
legally relevant, as the court hearing was concerned with enforcement of that agreement 
only. The panel solicitor acknowledged many of the points raised by Ms R about the conduct 
of her relatives and the evidence provided to the court at the hearing but did not think this 
meant she had prospects in a professional negligence claim against her former solicitors. 
The panel solicitor therefore concluded his opinion was still that there were not reasonable 
prospects of success and he also stated that his opinion was unlikely to change if he were to 
consider anything more that Ms R had sent. The panel solicitor made a legal assessment that the other material Ms R wanted him to look 
at was unlikely to change his opinion on the chances of success. The panel solicitors 
opinion on this would be based on his expertise of what would be required to prove 
professional negligence on the part of Ms Rs former solicitors. The panel solicitor also 
stated that he would advise a private-paying client not to spend any further money on him 
looking into it. Again this would be based on his experience and expertise in determining 
such cases. I do not agree that it would always be necessary for a solicitor to read every 
document related to a case to reach a reliable legal view on it. 
Ms R is adamant the advice was flawed and the panel solicitor failed to carry out a full and 
thorough review of all available information. However, there is no persuasive evidence that 
there was any patent flaw in his consideration of the matter (in August 2021 or later) or that 
he had not seen any crucial evidence. The panel solicitor had been provided with a large 
volume of papers and spoken to Ms R; I also note that Ms R said in an email dated 12 
January 2023 that the panel solicitor had misunderstood the events that caused the dispute 
and his opinion was not justified given the documents already in his possession. This 
suggests there was nothing new to provide to him but rather that she did not agree with his 
interpretation of the evidence and information he had. 
A policyholders own assessment of their legal case cannot reasonably outweigh the 
assessment of qualified solicitor and is not sufficient to require an insurer to effectively 
disregard an opinion from a solicitor. So while I appreciate Ms R feels very strongly about 
the strength of her claim against the former solicitor, I do not consider that Aviva has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. Having considered all the circumstances, I think Aviva was entitled 
to rely on the panel solicitors advice on the matter and refuse to fund any further legal fees.
Ms R also said shed contacted the legal advice helpline provided with her policy and been 
advised that the panel solicitor had failed to identify errors in the representation in the court 
hearing. Any advice given by a helpline will be limited and as stated I consider Aviva was 
entitled to rely on the advice of the panel solicitor. 
The statement in the letter of 5 July 2021, that Ms R could revert to Aviva with reasons for 
disagreeing with any decision made on the claim and it will be considered doesnt bind Aviva 
to funding a further legal review. It quite reasonably says it will give any such disagreement 
consideration. Aviva did consider Ms Rs response to the legal opinion and the refusal of the 
claim and asked the panel solicitor to review their advice in response to her letter of 
September 2021. The letter does not create any obligation to continue to fund legal reviews; 
and does not supersede any policy terms.
If Ms R wants Aviva to give any further consideration to her claim, it would now be for her to 
provide a legal opinion, from a suitably qualified lawyer, that her claim does have reasonable 
prospects.  Ms R also says it is unfair to require her to pay for a proper and thorough review 
of the legal claim, which Aviva failed to do. However, as stated above I consider Aviva has 
already fulfilled its obligations under the policy and did obtain suitable advice. My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman