DRN-3040052
The complaint
Mr A complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In September 2015, Mr A applied for a credit card from Vanquis. It was agreed with a limit of
£250. This was unchanged. In September 2018, the debt was passed to a debt collection 
agency to collect payments. In January 2021, Vanquis agreed a payment plan of £1 per 
month.
Mr A complained that he shouldnt have been given the card. He had taken out £40,000 of 
loans with a payday lender between 2012 and 2017. There were three new payday loans of
£1,000 taken out in the two months before the application to Vanquis. There were also two 
other cards agreed from other lenders just before the application to Vanquis. At the time, 
his salary was £1,530 a month and basic outgoings were £900. By January 2016, he was 
paying £1,700 a month on credit cards and loans. He said the interest and charges on the 
Vanquis card should be refunded, plus 8% interest, and default markers be removed from 
his credit file.
Vanquis said theyd carried out proportionate checks for a modest limit of £250. In his 
application, Mr A said he was earning £23,000 per annum. His credit file showed no 
outstanding CCJs. There was a prior defaulted debt  but that was almost four years before. 
Other debts were only £100. They hadnt offered an increase in the limit.
Mr A brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Vanquis hadnt carried out sufficient 
checks. Mr As bank statements showed payments to payday lenders. And his credit file 
showed previous payments to payday lenders  sometimes up to £400 per month. His credit 
file showed eight hard searches for credit in the last six months. This showed he was relying 
on short term credit and Vanquis shouldve asked more questions before agreeing to the 
credit card.
Vanquis didnt agree and asked that Mr As complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether Vanquis 
acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as 
set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a 
reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer 
not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make 
repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the 
lender knew about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid.
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
The important thing to consider here is that a lender must make proportionate checks  
considering the amount of credit being put in place. Here, Mr A applied for a limit of £250  
a very modest limit. And so, the risk to Vanquis of Mr A not making the repayments was low.
So, I must consider the checks made by Vanquis in the light of that. And I think they acted 
fairly and reasonably.
Mr As application said he earnt £23,000 a year and had other debts of only £100. Vanquis 
could see he had defaulted on a debt of £1,800  but that was 42 months previously, so a 
long time before. There were no county court judgements. So that all looked OK.
Ive looked Mr As credit file that he sent to us. This does show there were two payday loans 
taken out in April 2015 (£422) and then in September 2015 (£208). These werent big 
commitments. I could also see there were three payday loans taken out in 2014, totalling
£3,047. But these had been repaid without any problems being shown  so they could be 
seen as Mr A repaying his loans successfully  this would be a positive factor. I can also 
see that Mr A took out another credit card from another lender in April 2015 with a limit of 
£200  this also was a modest limit. He also took out a further card from another lender in 
September 2015 with a limit of £600  and this then increased to £1,600 in January 2016, 
and thereafter to £2,800. Vanquis havent said they saw this at the time of Mr As application 
to them  I suspect this is because credit files typically take several weeks to update.
I looked at the credit file that Vanquis wouldve seen  from another credit reference 
agency. This shows the other credit card with a limit of £200  but not the prior payday 
loans. In all fairness, we cant expect Vanquis to make a judgement based on information 
they didnt have. An even if they had seen the three payday loans of £3,047, I dont think it 
wouldve made a difference to their decision to give a card to Mr A  with a low limit of £250.
Looking at the reports from both credit reference agencies, I can see a lot of payday loans 
were taken out from 2016 onwards. In 2016 to 2018, there were 24 payday loans taken out. 
It looks like most were repaid OK. But  it looks to me that Mr As problems arose well after 
he applied for the card from Vanquis. Obviously, we cant expect Vanquis to have known
about those at the time the card was agreed in September 2015.
Our investigator said that Mr As bank statements showed he was paying other lenders  
and they do. But, given what they saw on Mr As application and his credit file, I dont think 
Vanquis had to be concerned enough to ask for Mr As statements. And  it wouldnt have 
been proportionate to do so, given the limit was only £250.
Our investigator said that he could see that there were eight searches made by Mr A in the 
six months before September 2015. I agree thats the case  but equally, this couldve been 
Mr A simply searching round for good deals, rather than anything else  what matters is 
what debt he actually took out. So  I dont think thats very relevant here.
So  in all the circumstances, I dont think Vanquis acted irresponsibly and carried out the 
necessary and proportionate checks when they So, my provisional decision is
that I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Neither Mr A or Vanquis made any comments.So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither Mr A or Vanquis had any comments to make, I wont be departing from my 
provisional decision and for the reasons I gave in it. So  I am not upholding Mr As 
complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman