The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2011. 
What happened
Mr J took out the PPI alongside a loan in 2011. He paid a monthly premium for it. Santander 
said the PPI wasnt mis-sold, but refunded some of the commission and profit share it 
received. 
Our adjudicator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. Mr J disagreed, so I've been 
asked to make a decision on the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js case.
Ive decided the policy was not mis-sold because I think Santander made it clear that Mr J 
did not have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
he cant remember this.
Santander did not recommend the PPI to Mr J so it did not have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr J got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr J about the PPI was not as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it does not  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Santander does not have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr J. But 
Santander has paid back some cost of the PPI to Mr J because Santander got a high level of 
commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr 
J about that. Because Santander did not tell Mr J, that was unfair. To put that right, 
Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of 
the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr J has said - including what he have said about. But these 
points dont change my decision.
DRN-1292974My final decision
The PPI policy was not mis-sold  so Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr J any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman