DRN-4453632
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with Close 
Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance was of an unsatisfactory quality.
Mr H is being represented in this complaint by Mrs H. However, for ease of reference, Ill 
refer to any actions taken, or comments made by either Mr H or Mrs H as being made or 
done by Mr H.
What happened
In September 2022, Mr H was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Close Brothers. He paid an advance payment of £1,000 and the agreement was for 
£6,690 over 60 months; with 59 monthly payments of £141.77 and a final payment of 
£151.77. At the time of supply, the car was over 11 years old, and had done 62,000 miles.
Mr H started to experience problems with the car from shortly after it was supplied to him  
the engine management light (EML) kept coming on, the car was losing power, and there 
was an issue with the clutch. The car was returned to the supplying dealership for repair in 
December 2022 and has remained with them ever since.
Mr H raised a complaint with Close Brothers but when they didnt respond within the 8-
weeks they were allowed to investigate matters, Mr H brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
In an email dated 12 May 2023, Close Brothers advised our investigator that as the dealer 
had not had the initial right to repair [the clutch] we were originally supporting repairs being 
completed, however as the vehicle has not been released to the customer for an extended 
period of time, we are now supporting a rejection. Following this, Mr H said theyd also 
agreed to refund all payments (bar the first two), refund the deposit, and refund some of the 
insurance payments. Close Brothers subsequently confirmed this was the case.
However, a few weeks later, Close Brothers arranged for an independent engineer to inspect 
the car. 
The investigator issued a view saying that Close Brothers had agreed to reject the car, and 
refund Mr Hs payments, deposit, and insurance. And he thought this was a reasonable offer 
which Close Brothers should now carry out.
Close Brothers responded to say the dealership believed the issues with the clutch were 
caused by Mr H, and he was therefore liable for the repairs. So, they thought the most 
reasonable course of action was to have the car inspected by an independent engineer 
before they agreed to carry out any remedy.
Close Brothers didnt initially provide a copy of the independent engineers report. So, the 
investigator issued a second view saying Mr H should be allowed to reject the car, and Close 
Brothers should refund the deposit and all payments made since December 2022, plus 
statutory interest; as well as pay Mr H £250 for the distress and inconvenience hed been 
caused.
Close Brothers provided a copy of the independent engineers report, dated 7 June 2023. 
This said the condition of the dual mass flywheel and clutch components are consistent with 
heavy abnormal loading riding of the clutch due to driver/operation technique.  The engineer 
went on to conclude we do not consider the faults to be present at purchase.
In a follow up letter dated 6 July 2023, the engineer confirmed that the clutch assembly was 
burnt out due to customer operation and not due to any defect with the clutch assembly 
components.
The investigator didnt think the independent engineers report changed his view. He said the 
engineer hadnt been given all the information about the previous repairs to the car, nor did 
the engineer comment on the other faults i.e., the EML or the loss of power. The investigator 
said he wasnt persuaded that, had the engineer been provided with relevant and accurate 
information, that the findings wouldnt change; and he wasnt convinced that the 1,705 miles 
Mr H completed in the car would be sufficient to burn out the clutch, which couldve been 
caused by the previous owner.
I issued a provisional view on 17 October 2023, where I explained my intention to not uphold 
the complaint. In that decision I said:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr H was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Close 
Brothers are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Close Brothers can show otherwise. But, where a fault is 
identified after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr H to show it was present 
when the car was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr H took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Close Brothers to put this right.
In this instance, its not disputed there is a fault with the car. However, what is in dispute is 
the nature of the fault, and what caused it. Before I address the issues with the clutch, I want 
to address the initial problems Mr H said he had with the car.
Mr H has provided copies of the emails hes exchanged with the supplying dealership in late 
2022. In these emails he said that hed experienced issues with the EML intermittently 
coming on, the engine temperature light coming on, and a loss of power when driving. And 
the car had been back to the dealership several times for a repair. He also said that the car went back to the dealership on 8 December 2022, and hed been told there was an issue 
with the clutch that would cost around £800 to fix.
Ive also seen that Mr H has asked the dealership for a detailed report of the activity (any 
returns, any reasons and any faults identified and fixed) relating to the car between 
September and December 2022. In response, on 31 December 2022, the dealership 
confirmed the start/stop battery had been replaced, and a slight water leak was repaired.
So, with the exception of the email referred to above, I havent seen anything to show me 
what work was done on the car by the dealership in late 2022. Whats more, I havent seen 
anything that shows me that any faults fixed by the dealership before the car went in for the 
clutch issue in December 2022 have reoccurred.
Turning now to the issues with the clutch, the relevant sections of the independent 
engineers report have been quoted above. The engineer also confirmed their duty is to the 
courts, not to the person who instructed or paid for the report. As such, Im satisfied this 
report is reasonable to rely upon.
The investigator has concluded this report isnt reasonable to rely upon as the engineer 
didnt refer to the previous issues with the car. However, I disagree with this conclusion. 
While it is the case that the engineer didnt refer to the previous issues and work done, as 
Ive stated above, the only evidence of any work done on the car is a replacement battery for 
the start/stop function, and a repair to a water leak. And neither of these would have any 
bearing on the clutch. As such, I dont consider that the engineers lack of knowledge and/or 
failure to refer to the previous issues with the car makes his opinion on the clutch unsafe.
The investigator also concluded that 1,705 miles isnt enough to burn out a clutch, so this 
must have been an issue when the car was supplied to Mr H. I also disagree with this 
conclusion. While 1,705 miles is a relatively small mileage, this was a car that was 11 years 
old at the point of supply. So, the clutch wouldve already suffered some wear compared to a 
brand-new car. Whats more, had the clutch already been burnt out when the car was 
supplied to Mr H, or had it been so badly damaged that it was almost at the end of its life, 
then I wouldve expected the issues with the clutch to have occurred sooner than they did.
In addition to this, Mr H hasnt provided any evidence, for example a report from a different 
engineer, which contradicts the independent engineers conclusion that the clutch failure was 
as a direct result of his driving style, and not due to an issue present when the car was 
supplied to him. And the supplying dealership didnt say there was an issue with the clutch 
when the car went in for the battery replacement and water leak repair. And, had the clutch 
issue been present at those points, as it would affect the normal operation of the car, I 
wouldve expected the dealership to have commented on this.
As a result, Im satisfied that, on the balance of probabilities, the issues with the clutch were 
down to Mr Hs driving style accelerating the demise of an already road worn clutch, and that 
it wasnt something that was present or developing at the point of sale. And I dont intend to 
ask Close Brothers to take any further action.
Responses
Mr H did not respond to my provisional view.
Close Brothers responded to say they had nothing further to add. However, they said that, in 
September 2023, they did support Mr H with the rejection of the car, which was largely 
agreed due to delays with our investigation.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr H nor Close Brothers have said anything to the contrary, Im taking their 
comments, or lack thereof, to mean they dont object to my provisional view. And, while 
Close Brothers comments about supporting the rejection have been noted, they dont 
change my view that they dont need to do anything more. Given this, I see no compelling 
reason why I shouldnt now adopt my provisional view as my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint about Close Brothers 
Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman