DRN-2069529
The complaint
Mr A complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) decision to decline his claim relating to 
the theft of his car.
What happened
The detailed background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a summary of some key events here. Mr A had motor insurance provided by UKI. In March 
2020 Mr A returned home from a shopping trip in his car. 
As he unloaded the shopping into his house, his car was stolen. Mr A reported this to the 
police the same day and to UKI the following morning. UKI say he told them the car was 
unlocked, unattended and that keys were in the car when it was stolen. 
UKI considered the claim but declined it. They relied on a policy term that refers to theft 
when the vehicle is left unlocked or with the keys in it. Mr A complained. He says he was 
only gone for a short time and that his kitchen (where he was unloading the shopping) 
overlooks where his car was parked. He thinks its likely someone followed him home from 
the supermarket as it happened so quickly. 
Mr As car was recovered around a week later. But several items had been stolen from 
within the car and it was damaged. Mr A asked UKI to cover some of these costs and the 
cost of changing the key, but they declined for the same reasons theyd originally given. 
The complaint was referred to our service and one of our investigators didnt think it should 
be upheld. He thought UKI had acted fairly in the circumstances and didnt recommend that 
they needed to do more. Mr A disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for essentially the 
same reasons. Mr A has also told our service that he has a second car (beyond the one that 
was stolen) insured with UKI. And that the spare keys for this car were in the car that was 
stolen. He says hes asked UKI to cover the cost of replacement keys for his second car 
under that policy and it has been declined. As our investigator pointed out, this is something 
Mr A will need to raise with UKI in the first instance. So, it isnt something Ill comment on 
here. This decision is limited to the claim in relation to the stolen car and the property it 
contained.
Mr As policy says: We will not cover loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft if 
the keys and/or other devices which unlock your car and/or enable your car to be started and 
driven are left in or on your car which is unattended, or if your car has been left unattended 
and not properly locked. 
This is a common term for this type of insurance. UKI are setting out that they wont cover 
loss or damage as a result of theft if the car is unlocked and unattended or if the keys are in 
or on it. I dont think this is an unfair term as I think it is reasonable for an insurer to require a 
policyholder to take reasonable steps to keep the car secure.
I appreciate that Mr A may have only been away from his car for a short period of time. But it 
was still left unattended and the fact that he didnt witness the theft supports this. It isnt 
disputed that the car was unlocked and that it can be started with the push of a button. So, in 
these circumstances, I dont think UKIs decision to decline the claim was unfair. 
And as the policy term refers to loss or damage I dont think UKI were unfair when declining 
to pay towards repairing the damage caused to or for the loss of property from within the 
vehicle once it was recovered by the police. In short, were it not for the car being left 
unattended and unlocked, Mr A likely wouldnt have suffered those losses. 
I appreciate Mr A says he would have been frightened to confront a thief, so it wouldnt have 
made a difference if the car was attended. Ive considered this, but I still think someone 
being with the vehicle would act as a deterrent, so I cant fairly say the policy term shouldnt 
apply. 
Im really sorry to hear that Mr A has been a victim of crime in this way and I appreciate hes 
incurred significant losses and feels strongly that his insurer should be there when he needs 
them. But the policy doesnt cover every conceivable set of circumstances and the 
circumstances of the theft of Mr As car is something that UKI have specifically said isnt 
covered. So, I cant fairly ask them to pay the claim or a proportion of it. 
Overall, I dont think UKI have acted outside the policy terms or unfairly, so Im not going to 
tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman