DRN-4216157
The complaint
Miss B complains that Close Brothers Limited wrongly recorded against her credit record 
that she had been in arrears with her car finance when she had had a payment holiday 
agreed with it.
What happened
During the Covid 19 pandemic Miss B applied for, and agreed a six month payment holiday 
with Close. This ended after February 2022, and the finance was fully paid up in May 2022. 
Miss B was attempting to obtain a mortgage but it was discovered that the payment holiday 
was registered with the three main credit reference agencies (CRAs), as showing the 
account had been six months in arrears. Close agreed to correct the records and said it had 
done so in May 2022. However Miss B discovered that one of the CRAs was still reporting 
the payments as being six months in arrears.
Close insisted that it had corrected the records, though pointed out that Miss B had still been 
correctly recorded as one month in arrears for March 2022 and two months in arrears for 
April 2022.
After referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator pointed out to Close that 
one CRA was still showing the wrong information. It amended the record in April 2023. It 
admitted that it had had a problem relating to its internal database with submitting data to 
that CRA. Our Investigator proposed that Close pay £600 to Miss B for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Close agreed to the proposed compensation.
Miss B did not agree. She said that Closes errors had prevented her from getting a 
mortgage, meaning she was homeless. She said she also wouldnt have been able to get 
any sort of credit/loan with banks or ordinary high street lenders. She further said she is on 
medication for anxiety, caused by the errors.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The compensation proposed is £600. Such an award might be fair where the impact of a 
businesss mistake has caused considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or 
significant inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. The  
impact may last over many weeks or months. I think that reflects the circumstances in 
this case. Ive taken into account the considerable worry that Miss B must have been 
caused by Closes errors, her difficulty in getting a mortgage and how it affected her 
ability to obtain credit.
However I cant say that Closes errors were the reason for her being homeless. I 
understand she moved out of her council accommodation and then stayed with relatives. 
She chose not to proceed with the mortgage her broker found for her (albeit not with a 
high street lender). There are a great number of factors involved in applying for a 
mortgage and Im not satisfied that Closes error would have been the only factor in an 
application not succeeding. I note for example that Close reported correctly that she was 
still in arrears with the payments after the payment holiday. She believes it would have 
prevented her from getting rented accommodation but then again I cant say whether 
that was likely the case.
Im not satisfied that Miss B has shown us that she made any financial losses because 
of Closes errors. Having taken into account the impact it had on Miss B I think the 
compensation proposed is fair and reasonable to reflect that.  
Putting things right
Close should pay Miss B £600 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Close Brothers Limited to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman