DRN-2288257
The complaint
Mr C complains that Cabot has treated him unfairly when trying to recover debts it acquired 
from other businesses. 
What happened
Cabot has purchased three debts in Mr Cs name. 
Loan 1
In August 2012 Cabot acquired a personal loan account that had defaulted with the original 
lender. The outstanding balance when Cabot bought the debt was £4,771.26. Cabot says it 
sent Mr C a Notice of Assignment (NOA) confirming the outstanding balance and new 
arrangement. Between August 2012 and November 2017 Mr C made repayments to reduce 
the outstanding balance to £4,059.26. In November 2017 Mr Cs representatives requested 
documents from Cabot under Section 78 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. On 20 March 
2018 Cabot wrote to confirm it couldnt provide a copy of the original loan agreement and 
that the debt isnt enforceable. 
Loan 2
In June 2013 Cabot bought another closed personal loan in Mr Cs name. The balance when 
Cabot acquired the account was £3,199.68. Cabot sent Mr C a NOA confirming the new 
ownership and outstanding balance on 27 June 2013. Between June 2013 and November 
2017 Mr C made repayments to reduce the outstanding balance to £2,717.06. In November 
2017 Mr Cs representatives asked for copies of documents, including the credit agreement. 
Cabot responded on 20 March 2018 and advised it couldnt provide a copy of the original 
credit agreement and that the debt isnt enforceable. 
Credit Card
In February 2017 Cabot acquired a closed credit card debt in Mr Cs name. The balance was 
£1,626.97 and Cabot sent Mr C a NOA on 23 March 2017 confirming the change in 
ownership of the debt. Between February 2017 and November 2017 Mr C made payments 
to reduce the balance to £1,578.71. In November 2017 Mr Cs representatives asked for the 
loan documents and on 25 September 2018 Cabot responded to say it wasnt able to obtain 
a copy of the original credit agreement which meant the debt wasnt enforceable. 
In June 2019 Mr Cs representatives complained that Cabot had acted unfairly. Mr C 
complained that Cabot couldnt be sure the balances were correct when the debts were 
acquired. Mr Cs representatives also said it was unfair to attempt to collect when the original 
terms arent available. 
Mr Cs case was referred to our service and it was passed to an investigator. He thought 
Cabot had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr Cs 
representatives asked to appeal and said its unclear whether the sums Cabot seek to collect 
are correct. They also said that the limited information about the nature of the original debts 
meant its unfair to attempt recovery from Mr C. As Mr Cs representatives asked to appeal, 
his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has said, its not our role to say whether a debt is enforceable or not. 
Were an informal dispute resolution service and decide the outcome of a complaint on a fair 
and reasonable basis. Ive considered Mr Cs complaint on the basis of whether its fair for 
Cabot to seek repayment of the three debts in question. Ill look at each debt in turn. 
Loan 1
I understand the original credit agreement isnt available for review which makes the loan 
unenforceable in court. But there is other information available that supports Cabots claim 
that the information it has provided is correct. Cabot sent Mr C a NOA to confirm it had 
acquired a debt of £4,771.26 in his name from the original lender. The transaction history 
provided shows that Mr C made regular repayments to the debt across several years. Ive 
looked at the statements and Im satisfied the current outstanding balance of £4,059.26 
correctly reflects the payments Mr C has made. I havent found anything to show the figures 
Cabot has provided are wrong. 
I also think its reasonable to note that Mr C made payments to reduce the outstanding 
balance for over five years. Mr Cs representatives have said that the payments were made 
via a debt manage company and that he wasnt aware of what he was paying. But I can see 
the amounts Mr C paid varied annually and I think its more likely than not that the debt 
management arrangements were regularly reviewed. Im not persuaded that the fact Mr Cs 
payments were made via a debt management company means its unfair for Cabot to seek 
repayment of the remaining balance. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but Im satisfied that Cabot did acquire Loan 1 from the original 
lender and that the balance it seeks to reclaim is correct. I havent been persuaded that 
Cabot has treated Mr C unfairly by asking him to repay the outstanding balance. 
Loan 2
Again, the original credit agreement isnt available in this case. But I think that reflects the 
passage of time since Mr C took out the original loan. Im not persuaded that the absence of 
the credit agreement means Cabots actions when trying to recover the debt are unfair. 
Cabot has provided systems evidence to show it sent Mr C a NOA on 26 June 2013 
confirming it had purchased the debt from the original lender and the amount outstanding. I 
note that Mr C didnt object to Cabot and made payments between July 2013 and November 
2017, reducing the outstanding balance to £2,717.06. 
As with Loan 1, Im not persuaded that Mr C was unaware of the nature of Loan 2 on the 
basis that his payments were made via a debt management company. Mr Cs repayments 
appear to have changed on an annual basis, as with Loan 1, and I think that reflects reviews 
carried out by the debt management company to ensure Mr Cs repayments remained 
affordable. Im satisfied Mr C would most likely have been involved in that process and was 
aware of the debt. The information Ive seen shows Cabot owns Loan 2 and that there is an outstanding 
balance. Im not persuaded that Cabot has treated Mr C unfairly by asking him to repay the 
outstanding debt. 
Credit Card 
Again, there is no original credit agreement available for Mr Cs credit card. But we have a 
copy of the NOAs sent by both Cabot and the original lender on 23 March 2017. Both NOAs 
contain the same figure for the outstanding balance of £1,626.97 and confirm the debt was 
sold to Cabot on 28 February 2017. I note Mr C didnt contact Cabot to query the debt it had 
acquire or ask whether the balance was correct. Mr C made various payments reducing the 
balance to £1,578.71 in November 2017 when they stopped. 
I note that the payments were via a debt management company and, as Ive said above, I 
think that reflects the fact Mr C was aware of the debt and what he owed. Im not persuaded 
that the absence of a credit agreement means its unfair for Cabot to attempt collection of the 
debt. As Im satisfied the outstanding balance is accurate, I agree with Cabot that it has a 
genuine reason to contact Mr C and request repayment. 
As Ive said above, its not for our service to say whether a debt is enforceable or not. Ive 
considered whether Cabot has treated Mr C unfairly by asking for repayments despite the 
fact it has limited information and documents available from when he opened the original 
account. For the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied Cabot acquired genuine debts in Mr 
Cs names and that the balances given to Mr C and shown on his statements are correct. As 
I havent found that Cabot has treated Mr C unreasonably and Im satisfied it has dealt with 
his complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman