DRN-2916846
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) cancelled two cheques that 
he submitted to them.  
What happened
Mr D made out a cheque from his NatWest account to be paid into an ISA that he held with a 
third party. NatWest contacted Mr D the next day and advised that the cheque had been 
cancelled. Mr D went into a NatWest branch and was told that if he resubmitted the cheque 
that it wouldnt be cancelled again. So, Mr D did resubmit the cheque, but again the cheque 
was cancelled. 
Mr D wasnt happy about this, and he also wasnt happy that when he told NatWest he 
couldnt remember his debit card PIN number they sent him a replacement debit card but 
didnt send him a PIN reminder. So, he made a complaint.
NatWest looked at Mr Ds complaint. They acknowledged that the standard of service theyd 
provided to Mr D in this instance wasnt to the level that they would have liked. So, they 
apologised to Mr D and offered to pay him £100 as compensation for the trouble and upset 
he may have incurred, as well as an additional £9.80 to cover Mr Ds travel costs.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, and felt that the compensation amount being 
offered by NatWest should be significantly higher. So, he referred his complaint to this 
service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They also felt that the amount of 
compensation that NatWest had offered Mr D should be higher, given what had taken place, 
and so they recommended that NatWest increase the total payment they were offering Mr D 
to £250.
Mr D remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In circumstances such as this  where a business has acknowledged that it made an error  
what this service would expect would be that the business would take the steps necessary to 
correct the errror and, if appropriate, make an offer of payment to their customer to fairly 
compensate them for any distress and inconvenience they may have incurred.
NatWest say that theyve done this here. Theyve identified that the cheques had been 
cancelled because theyd been unable to verify Mr Ds signatures on the cheques, and they 
acknowledged that more should have been done when Mr D visited branch on the first 
occasion to ensure that the resubmitted cheque was processed effectively. And, because of 
this, NatWest offered to pay compensation and travel costs to Mr D totalling £109.80.
NatWest have stated that the cheques were cancelled because they were unable to verify 
the signatures on the cheques. Im aware that Mr D feels that the cheques were cancelled 
without good reason, but Im satisfied that the explanation provided by NatWest here is 
reasonable, and I can confirm that this service would expect a business to cancel a cheque 
when the signature cant be confirmed as being that of an account holder.
However, I concur with the assessment made by our investigator that more should have 
been done when Mr D visited branch  such as, for instance, updating Mr Ds signature - to 
ensure that any resubmitted cheque wouldnt also be cancelled. And its also difficult not to 
conclude that NatWest sending Mr D a new debit card without also sending a PIN reminder 
 when Mr D had informed NatWest that he couldnt use his debit card because he couldnt 
remember the PIN  was an ineffective gesture which added to Mr Ds inconvenience.
In consideration of these points, I find it difficult not to echo the conclusion made by our 
investigator that the initial offer of compensation made to Mr D by NatWest doesnt go far 
enough regarding the level of distress and inconvenience that Mr D may have incurred.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not considered as being such by another. But in this instance, the 
£250 total payment recommended by our investigator here does feel fair to me, and I can 
confirm that its commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances 
here.
Im aware that Mr D feels that a much higher award of compensation should be merited in 
this case. But it must be reiterated that the remit of this service isnt to punish or fine 
businesses, but rather to instruct a business to reimburse a customer on the basis of 
financial loss or to make a payment to fairly compensate a customer for any trouble or 
distress they may have unnecessarily incurred.
In this instance, Mr D hasnt incurred any material financial loss, and as explained, I feel that 
a payment of £250 provides fair and reasonable compensation to Mr D for the upset and 
inconvenience that this matter may have caused him.
As such, it follows that Ill be upholding this complaint on the same basis as recommended 
by our investigator here. I hope that Mr D will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive 
made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
NatWest must make a payment of £250 to Mr D.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc on 
the basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman