DRN-3963956
The complaint
Mr O and Miss W have complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined a 
cancellation claim made under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint was upheld. Mr O appealed. 
The facts are not in dispute to Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and although I recognise that Mr O and Miss W will be very disappointed, I 
dont uphold their complaint. Ill explain the reasons why.
The annual insurance policy was purchased on 8 March 2022  with a start date 
selected of 5 April 2022. The policy documents made clear that cover commenced 
from the policy start date.
Mr O sustained an injury on 18 March 2022  before the start date of the policy. He 
saw his GP regarding the back pain. The policy defines pre-existing medical 
conditions. The definition includes: Any medical condition in the past 2 years, for 
which you were prescribed medication, received treatment or had a consultation with 
a doctor or hospital specialist. 
I understand that at this stage he was not in pain so didnt think that his back injury 
would be a pre-existing medical condition in accordance with the policy definition. I 
note that on 1 April 2022 his GP told him he wouldnt be travelling against medical 
advice, but to see how he felt prior to his booked holiday. But Im satisfied that the 
definition was clear. The policy doesnt cover pre-existing conditions that Admiral 
hasnt agreed to cover. It says in the medical declaration section: If you dont tell us 
about a new medical condition or change to your health we can refuse a claim which 
is in any way connected with a pre-existing medical condition or a new medical 
condition or health changes that we never agreed to cover. Mr O didnt advise 
Admiral about his medical condition.
Admiral felt that the cancellation of the holiday was also an anticipated event  one 
that you knew would happen, or could reasonably have expected to happen, and 
you were aware of it when your insurance started or renewed, or the date when you 
booked your trip, whichever is later. Mr O says he didnt anticipate he would need to 
cancel his holiday, which I accept. However as Mr O was aware of his back condition 
when the policy started, Im satisfied it was fair for Admiral to conclude that it did 
meet the anticipated event definition.
Admiral wrongly advised Mr O that his claim would be covered. I understand that to 
later be told this was incorrect would have been upsetting and disappointing for both 
Mr O and Miss W. However I dont find that this error meant that Admiral should have 
paid a benefit not covered by the policy. Admiral apologised and offered 
compensation, which I find was fair. 
In all the circumstances I dont find that Admiral unreasonably declined Mr O and 
Miss Ws claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman