DRN-3486529
The complaint
F and F (two linked businesses) complain that China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd unfairly 
declined a claim they made on a business interruption insurance policy.
F and F are represented in their dealings with our service by Mr W and Mrs C.
What happened
F and F operate a takeaway restaurant. They held insurance with China Taiping which 
provided cover for business interruption, among other things. A fire caused significant 
damage to the premises, causing the shop to close. When F and F claimed on the policy 
with China Taiping, cover was declined. After carrying out investigations, China Taiping said 
conditions which required oil levels to be maintained at a minimum level in frying equipment  
hadnt been adhered to, and this had caused the fire. 
F and F complained to China Taiping and then to our service. When it rejected the 
complaint, China Taiping additionally referred to a condition of the policy which required two 
different types of thermostat to be fitted to the frying range. 
Our investigator thought China Taiping had acted fairly when it declined the claim. F and F 
didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They reject the suggestion that 
the fire was caused by a low level of oil, or that the oil was below the required level. They 
believe the fire was caused by a broken thermostat. They say the equipment had been 
disposed of before China Taiping said the number of thermostats was insufficient, and so 
cant now arrange for it to be inspected to dispute this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is to look at the relevant conditions which are being relied on by China 
Taiping in declining cover for F and Fs claim. The condition in respect of the thermostats 
requires that:
the frying equipment is fitted with: -
i. a fully functioning thermostat to prevent the temperature of the cooking fat or oil in any of 
the pans rising above 205 degrees centigrade (401 degrees Fahrenheit), or any lower 
temperature recommended by the manufacturer;
ii. a separate high temperature limit thermostat without automatic resetting to shut off the 
heat source if the temperature of the fat or oil in any of the pans exceeds 225 degrees 
centigrade (440 degree Fahrenheit);
iii. a flame failure cut-off device for gas heated equipment;
The condition regarding the oil levels says:
when in use, the oil or fat in each frying pan must be maintained between the minimum and 
maximum levels recommended by the manufacturers, and at a sufficient level to ensure that 
both the thermostat and high temperature limit thermostat are both immersed in the cooking 
medium.
These are both elements of a condition precedent to liability, meaning theyre considered to 
be so fundamental to the policy that if breached, China Taiping may refuse to provide cover. 
Such conditions arent unusual, or inherently unfair, but I do need to consider whether the 
conditions were clear, fair and not misleading. It isnt suggested by those representing F and 
F that these conditions were unclear, and Ive seen nothing to suggest this was the case.
The Insurance Act 2015 says that even where a condition precedent to liability (such as 
these conditions) has been breached, if the policyholder can show that the non-compliance 
with the condition didnt increase the risk of the loss, an insurer cant rely on it as a reason to 
decline the claim.
When it originally declined cover for F and Fs claim, China Taiping referenced a further part 
of the condition precedent relating to the requirements around isolation switches. It said the 
isolation switches at F and Fs premises werent compliant with that condition. It now 
appears to accept the relevant switch did comply with the condition, so I dont intend to 
address this in my decision. The condition is no longer relied on by China Taiping as a 
reason why cover for the claim was declined.
China Taiping says the level of oil in the frying range at the time of the fire was below the 
minimum required level. Its suggested if that was the case, then the oil level wouldnt cover 
the thermostat, meaning the remaining oil was heated uncontrollably until it ignited, causing 
the fire. I think its fair to say if this was the cause of the fire, then the condition would have 
been breached, and the claim could be reasonably declined. There would be a causal link 
between the breach and the loss.
This, in effect, is where the dispute arises. China Taiping says forensic investigations have 
concluded the cause of the fire to be most likely be due to the low oil level. F and F say the 
oil level wasnt too low, and the fire was caused because a thermostat failed allowing 
uncontrolled heating of the oil to occur. 
China Taiping also says the forensic investigations established the pan which caught fire 
was only fitted with an operating temperature thermostat , but not a high limit safety 
thermostat. F and F say it was only told this after the range had been disposed of so its now 
impossible for a further inspection to take place and establish how many, and what kind, of 
thermostats were fitted.
Ive looked at the reports, and comments of the forensic expert who carried out two 
inspections of the frying range in question. At the end of their second report, they concluded 
that the more probable cause of the fire was that the oil in the pan was heated 
uncontrollably because the oil level was very low, so the only thermostatic control was not 
submerged and therefore failed to register the temperature of the oil. 
The report also detailed what was termed a less likely explanation for the fire. This was that 
the thermostat bulb was submerged in the oil, but didnt shut off the gas supply (and 
therefore the heat) because it was encased in a layer of solid black residue which insulated 
the bulb and delayed its response. 
The relevant burden of proof here is the balance of probabilities  in other words, it needs to 
be more likely than not that the conditions Ive referenced above have been breached, and 
that the breach affected the risk.I think its fair to say that in making such an assessment, China Taiping can reasonably rely 
on the conclusions of the forensic expert. They concluded the most likely cause of the fire 
was the oil level being too low allowing the uncontrolled heating of the oil to the point of 
ignition. On the balance of probabilities, it would therefore seem reasonable for China 
Taiping to say this was the cause of the fire.
Im not an expert on the causes of fires, and its accepted that the forensic report has been 
produced by a properly qualified person. My starting point therefore has to be that its very 
difficult for me to say theyve reached the wrong conclusion or that their report should be 
wholly disregarded. What I have done is look at what evidence they relied on to reach their 
conclusions, and whether theres any reason why that evidence should be discounted or 
disregarded as unreliable. If thats the case, my next step would be to consider what 
difference, if any, I think that would have made to the conclusions reached.
The report gives the reasons why a low oil level is considered to be the most likely cause of 
the fire. It seems to me that the main reasons why this conclusion was reached are that the 
pan which caught fire was noted to have evidence of fire extinguisher powder at a low level 
in the pan, and the accounts given by Mr W and Mrs C of what happened.
The powder level is considered to be relevant because it doesnt seem to be disputed that 
the powder comes from an extinguisher used by Mr W and Mrs C to try and put out the fire 
when it first started. The level of the residue, in the forensic experts opinion, indicates where 
the extinguisher was applied, and therefore where the oil level was when it was discharged.
The other reason why the oil level is said to have been low is because of the accounts given 
by Mr W and Mrs C. China Taiping says that Mr W had said that 2 days before, when the 
shop was closed, most of the oil had been removed from the pan with the intention of 
replacing it when re-opening. Mrs C said that when returning to the shop two days later, she 
lit the range in order to warm the oil to allow cleaning to be done. Around five minutes later, 
the fire started. It was considered the short period of time between lighting the range and the 
fire starting was indicative of the oil level being low in the pan, as to warm the oil for cleaning 
when it was at the normal level would take at least 10 minutes.
F and F appear to dispute the accounts relied on by China Taiping. They point to Mr Ws 
experience in this area as meaning he wouldnt have left the oil at an insufficient level for any 
length of time. They also say Mrs Cs account may be inaccurate due to health issues she 
was suffering from at the time she apparently told China Taipings representatives what had 
happened. 
While Im sorry to hear of Mrs Cs ill health following the fire, I havent seen anything to 
suggest it was unreasonable for the forensic expert, and therefore China Taiping, to rely on 
what shed said about the time between lighting the range and the fire starting. I cant see 
any medical or other evidence has been provided to suggest that her memory of what 
happened has been adversely affected by her ill health. Id also note that Mrs Cs ill health 
wouldnt enable me to discount what Mr W had apparently told China Taipings 
representatives about removing the majority of the oil before closing two days before the fire. 
I note the short period of time Mrs W mentioned between turning on the pan and the fire 
starting would be consistent with a low oil level, based on the evidence available. 
I think its also significant that the physical evidence available indicates there was a low level 
of oil in the pan at the time of the fire extinguisher being used, so its likely that a similarly 
low level was present at the time of the fire starting. I havent seen anything to refute this 
physical evidence, and so I do think its reasonable for it to have been considered as 
persuasive when establishing the cause of the fire. I cant conclude the forensic expert has based their conclusions on the most likely cause of 
the fire on demonstrably inaccurate information. I note F and F consider Mrs Cs account 
should essentially be considered unreliable due to the impact of the fire on her health. Even 
if I were to agree with such a position, it wouldnt explain or refute the evidence around the 
extinguisher residue and oil level, which is persuasive in its own right.
A less likely cause of the fire was proposed by the forensic expert. This was linked to a thick 
residue which was found on the thermostat from the pan which caught fire. Similar residue 
wasnt present in the same quantities on the thermostats in the other pans. The forensic 
expert said a reasonable explanation for this was that the residue had become burned onto 
the thermostat bulb during the fire  hence why it wasnt present in the other pans which 
hadnt caught fire. 
Im satisfied the forensic expert has explored another possible cause for the fire, but has 
detailed why this cause should be discounted in favour of the more likely cause outlined 
above. They considered a reasonable explanation could be found for this point linked to the 
fire  suggesting it was a result of, not contributory to the cause of, the fire.
The forensic expert appears to have concluded, on the balance of probabilities, that the most 
likely cause of the fire was the low level of oil. Im satisfied it was reasonable for China 
Taiping to rely on this when it was assessing cover for the claim.
The forensic report also details the investigations carried out in terms of inspecting the range 
and the thermostats which were present in the various pans. That inspection, in summary, 
concluded there was only one effective thermostat in the pan which caught fire. The report 
details the bulbs, wiring and circuity present which have resulted in that conclusion. On that 
basis, it seems to me fair to say that China Taiping could reasonably rely on the report as 
detailing the number and types of thermostat which were installed and effective at the time of 
the fire.
F and F have suggested they were advised to dispose of the range after the forensic 
investigations were complete, but before cover for the claim was declined. They suggest this 
prejudices their position as its now impossible to have further inspections of the range 
carried out to give a definitive answer as to the cause of the fire, whether a broken 
thermostat caused it, and how many thermostats were in the various pans.
Ive been provided copies of emails sent to F and F during the course of the investigation 
into the claim and cant see anywhere within these that F and F were informed the range 
could be disposed of. I cant conclude that China Taiping encouraged or induced F and F to 
dispose of the range, thereby preventing any further inspection of it. It seems that the 
decision to dispose of the range was taken following advice from the fire inspector, rather 
than any indication from China Taiping that it should be disposed of. 
On balance, I do think it was fair for China Taiping, having reviewed the evidence available, 
to conclude the cause of the fire was more likely than not to have been the uncontrolled 
heating of the oil which occurred because the level was below the minimum required. I think 
the forensic expert had given an opinion as to the most likely cause of the fire, and it was fair 
for China Taiping to rely on this. 
I also think that, notwithstanding this, China Taiping could reasonably conclude from the 
same report that the pan which caught fire wasnt fitted with the correct number and type of 
thermostats. 
As thats the case, China Taiping could reasonably conclude that the conditions relating to 
the oil level and thermostats had been breached and as such there was no cover available for F and Fs claim. The breaches of the conditions did, Im satisfied, increase the risk of the 
loss occurring  and indeed it can be persuasively argued the breach of the condition 
relating to the oil level did cause the loss to occur given it was the most likely cause of the 
fire.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd 
acted fairly when it declined F and Fs claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F and F to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman