DRN-2435858
The complaint
Mr M complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) handling of a claim under his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M was involved in a non-fault accident with a third party in October 2019, and he 
contacted his insurer Aviva. Aviva recovered the vehicle and placed it in a garage for repairs. 
When he complained to us in March 2020, Mr M said the vehicle was still not repaired, and 
the garage had now shut because of the national lockdown. Mr Ms vehicle was returned to 
him in September 2020.
At the time of complaint Mr M was unhappy that Aviva had decided to repair his vehicle. He 
said a vehicle with such extensive damage shouldve been written off. He said Aviva gave no 
consideration to the length of time repair work was likely to take. 
Mr M was also concerned about the diminished value of the vehicle after being off the road 
for so long. He raised a query about the road tax hed paid, and the insurance he was 
continuing to pay. He also said the experience had a very stressful effect on both him and 
his wife. 
But his main concern was the repairs. He said he received only one update from October 
2019 through to March 2020, and when he called to the garage, all work on his vehicle had 
halted and the vehicle had been pushed to one side.
Aviva say that its decision to repair the vehicle was correct based on the estimated costs it 
had received. It said Mr M had received regular updates and that with such extensive 
damage the repairs were always going to take some time. It said there had been delays in 
obtaining some of the parts, specifically a new floor panel, and it offered Mr M £100 in 
compensation for these delays.
However, Mr M remained unhappy and he referred the complaint to our service. An 
investigator reviewed the complaint and agreed with Mr M. The investigator said there was 
no satisfactory reason as to why the repairs had taken so long, and she recommended Aviva 
increase its compensation offer to £400.
However, neither party agrees. Mr M doesnt think £400 is sufficient for the distress and 
inconvenience both he and his wife have suffered. Aviva says the delays were unavoidable, 
and that £100 is sufficient.
As neither party agrees, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
First, I need to clarify what I will be dealing with in this final decision. When Mr M first 
complained to this service he had received a final response from Aviva dated 16 March 
2020. However, Im conscious that the vehicle repairs were further delayed after this date 
because of the national lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic. 
I also note that Aviva has provided answers in relation to the further delays that occurred 
whilst the complaint has been with this service during and after the first lockdown. So, based 
on this Im satisfied that I can deal with the issues that arose both pre and post the 
unprecedented national lockdown in 2020.
Repairs October 2019 to March 2020 
Mr M was involved in an accident on 20 October 2019. His vehicle was brought to a repair 
centre and the damage was assessed over the next few days. However, Mr M says the 
repairs remained unauthorised until 15 November 2019. Mr M says he became quite 
concerned in January 2020 as he couldnt see any progress was being made. He formally 
complained in February 2020 and following a telephone call in March 2020 he received a 
final response and an offer of £100 for the inconvenience and delays caused.
The timeline of events provided by Aviva is very similar. The vehicle was assessed on 23 
October 2019. There was a query over the repair methods listed in the repair estimate and 
further assessment was required. This was completed and agreed in principal on 15 
November 2019. Parts were ordered and repairs started on 18 November 2019.
The extent of work that was carried out in the period between 18 November 2019 and 13 
January 2020 is unclear. On 13 January 2020 the repair centre advised that it was awaiting 
advice on a specific repair method from the vehicle manufacturer. This was followed up 
again on 27 February 2020. On 4 March 2020 the repair centre said a further 2-4 weeks 
would be a reasonable completion date. But the repair centre shut following government 
restrictions before this 2-4 week timeframe elapsed.
We asked Aviva to elaborate a little more on the delays, in particular November 2019 to 
January 2020. Aviva has advised that after further stripping on 15 January 2020 the repair 
centre realised that the boot floor would need replacing because sections of the offside rear 
chassis leg needed to be replaced. This impacted on the original cost and added to the 
delays because the repair centre had to consult with a specialist training centre to confirm 
correct repair methods. Aviva go on further to say that it has an invoice dated 25 February 
2020 for the removal of the rear axle and suspension, so this repair can be carried out. Aviva 
says this repair required a specific number of technicians available to carry out this specialist 
repair, and there was a delay in achieving the correct amount of floor space along with 
aligning the equipment time with available technicians time. In a further email Aviva explain 
that after it gave the 2-4 week estimated completion time, the main engineer on the job had 
to self-isolate following medical advice. He was then put on furlough, along with a large 
percentage of the repair centre staff. So, the vehicle repair remained uncompleted when the 
national lockdown started.
Repairs March 2020  September 2020The repair centre reopened on 18 May 2020 after the national lockdown. And there was a 
backlog of work. Aviva followed up on the repair on 15 June 2020 and the repair centre 
advised that it was still awaiting a specialist on-site to refit the suspension. It was confirmed 
on 7 July 2020 that repairs could continue, but there was another hold up on 20 July 2020 
when a further part was identified as needing replacement. There were numerous contacts 
over the next five weeks and estimated time for the part delivery was end August. The 
vehicle was returned to Mr M on 22 September 2020.
My thoughts on the repairs
Im conscious that when the repair centre told Aviva way back at the beginning of March 
2020 that a 2-4 week completion date was possible, that it didnt realise that we would be 
entering an unprecedented nationwide lockdown across the whole of the UK for two months. 
Im also conscious of the knock-on effect this lock down has had on businesses, and that 
even the best laid plans were disrupted. So, Im reluctant to blame Aviva for the delays that 
happened after 18 May 2020. The repair centre was working with a skeleton staff and many 
specialists were unavailable due to the fact they were on furlough. So, theres a very valid 
reason as to why there were delays. And this was compounded by delays in the supply 
chain, which meant the repair centre had to wait an exceptionally long time for a part that 
was ordered in July and wouldve usually been available straight away. So even though 
there were exceptionally long delays from May to September 2020, Im conscious that these 
delays were unavoidable because of the circumstances at the time.
However, Mr M should never have been in a position where his vehicle wasnt ready before 
March 2020, and this seems to have been because the repair of this vehicle wasnt dealt 
with efficiently. From the onset there were delays. The original estimate was deemed 
insufficient and further stripping had to be undertaken. And this took over three weeks. The 
file notes indicate repairs started on 18 November 2019, but theres nothing to indicate what 
happened between 18 November 2019 and the next note on the Audatex report which was 
14 January 2020. The photographs from this date show the offside of the vehicle stripped 
and up on a lift. But with a mechanical labour time on the report as being 68 hours, (which is 
a remove and replace total repair time, not remove only) its not clear how it took two months 
to get to this point, even if you factor in a Christmas break. 
Further to this, the notes on file from 15 January 2020 indicate the direction was to carry on 
with repairs. But due to the requirement of specialist technicians and specialist advice, this 
didnt take place until end February 2020, another six weeks. And then obviously the 
national lockdown started, and all plans were disrupted.
I appreciate there will always be delays of some sort, as technicians cant just be expected 
to drop everything to cater for each individual job. But there are unexplained delays at each 
stage of the process here, and in particular at the very beginning and in the two months 
around Christmas 2019. Mr M says when he visited the garage his car was pushed to one 
side. But Aviva deny this happened. But I can see why it might have happened if it did. 
There was no point in the garage using up floor space whilst it was waiting for specialist 
advice. 
But it shouldve been clear from the beginning that specialist advice was required. I 
understand not everything can be accounted for in an estimate, but thats why theres a 
contingency in place. Aviva has sent us print outs of the repair recommendations and a 
timeline. But even with them the notes indicate that on 13 January 2020 the repair centre 
was still awaiting advice. And a note from 4 March 2020 nearly two months later indicates 
that even then the boot floor panel hadnt yet been replaced. And a note from 15 June 2020 
indicates that the repair centre was still waiting for someone at that late stage to refit the 
suspension. Ive set out already why I think the delays after the lockdown in March were unavoidable. But 
what these notes tell us is that this vehicle was quite a way off being repaired when the 
repair centre had to close. Its not clear why there were such delays up to March 2020. And 
because of these delays the return Mr Ms car was prolonged when the UK went into a 
national lockdown. Delays which were made worse as the industry tried to realign itself as 
the lockdown eased.
Its clear Aviva are aware of the issues and its attempted to compensate Mr M for this. But 
theres a dispute over what this amount should be. Aviva feel £100 is sufficient. Mr M wants 
something closer to £1,000 for his distress and inconvenience. Our investigator felt that £400 
was a fair and reasonable amount. And on review Im inclined to agree £400 is a fair 
amount. 
Ancillary issues
Mr M has also raised some ancillary issues. Mr M is unhappy that Aviva had decided to 
repair his vehicle. He said a vehicle with such extensive damage shouldve been written off. 
He said Aviva gave no consideration to the length of time repair work was likely to take. 
Aside from the time taken which Ive already dealt with, Aviva have every right to weigh up 
the economic cost of repair versus paying the market value of the vehicle. Usually an insurer 
would look at a repair cost of around 70% of the market value as being the cost at which it 
would consider writing off a vehicle. But this is a general guide and not a hard and fast rule. 
In this case, the original estimate came in just under this percentage point. However, on 
review of the additional work around the boot floor in particular, Aviva has said this increased 
the repair cost. But even though the cost did go over the 70% threshold, it looks like Aviva 
made the decision to continue as it had already incurred a significant cost. This is an 
acceptable decision and even though I appreciate Mr M wanted the vehicle written off, it was 
ultimately Avivas decision to continue with the repair.
Mr M was also concerned about the diminished value of the vehicle after being off the road 
for so long. He raised a query about the road tax hed paid, and the insurance he was 
continuing to pay. He also said the experience had had a very stressful effect on both him 
and his wife. 
A vehicle, if repaired correctly, should be of the same standard as a factory-built vehicle. 
Given the level of expertise and specialist technician input on this job, Im satisfied Aviva 
hasnt diminished the value of this vehicle. And Mr M hasnt mentioned that hes unhappy 
with the repairs. In relation to road tax and insurance both of these remained in place and 
need to be paid. Im conscious that Mr M was in a hire car provided by the third party 
throughout all this time, so he hasnt lost out on either insurance paid or road tax. So, Aviva 
hasnt done anything wrong here.
But I do appreciate that Mr M did suffer an inconvenience caused mainly by the avoidable 
delays that occurred from October 2019 to March 2020. And so I agree with our investigator. 
I recommend that Aviva pays Mr M £400 in total in compensation for the reasons Ive set out 
above.
My final decision My final decision is to partially uphold this complaint.
Aviva Insurance Limited must do the following;
pay Mr M £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman