DRN-3897453
The complaint
Mr G and Miss W complain DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) 
has unfairly handled their claim for LEI cover.
Because the legal claim relates to Mr G, for ease, I have referred to him throughout.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so Ive 
summarised whats happened.
In November 2019, Mr G made a claim on his LEI policy for cover in respect of an 
employment legal claim he wanted to pursue against his employer at the time 
(claim A).
In February 2020, DAS informed Mr G that a panel firm solicitor (Company A) 
had been appointed to help with his legal claim.
In April 2020, a Barrister  appointed by Company A  reviewed Mr Gs legal 
claim and said it didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success. On this basis 
DAS said it wouldnt cover the claim.
Mr G continued to fund the legal claim himself and Company A remained his 
solicitor. A few months later, his claim was lodged with the Employment Tribunal.
In December 2020, Mr G resigned from his job. He subsequently sought to bring 
a claim for constructive unfair dismissal against his former employer  which 
DAS set up in January 2021 (claim B).
Around the same time, Mr G instructed his own Barrister to consider the merits of 
his legal claim. The Barrister said the legal claim enjoyed prospects of success.
Mr G was, however, unable to pursue his legal claim, as the Employment 
Tribunal deemed it to have been made too late.
Mr G then raised another claim with DAS to pursue a legal claim against Company 
A for allegedly failing to handle his legal claim properly.
Unhappy that DAS hadnt provided legal cover in respect of claim A, Mr G 
made a complaint.
In its final response DAS said as Claim A didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of 
success  which is a condition of the policy  it was entitled to decline cover 
based on the legal advice itd received.
It added Company A hadnt considered whether Mr G had prospects of success 
in respect of constructive unfair dismissal because he hadnt resigned at the point 
the prospect of success assessment was completed.
It advised Mr G that he could challenge the legal opinion by providing a 
Barristers opinion at a cost to himself. It also offered £50 compensation for the 
delay in providing its final response.
Mr G is unhappy that he wasnt told  at the time cover was withdrawn  that 
he could challenge the legal opinion. He considers that as his own Barrister 
said the legal claim had prospects, the legal costs hes since paid should be 
covered.
Our Investigator considered Mr Gs complaint and said that because DAS had 
failed to tell Mr G he could challenge the legal opinion, it should cover the legal 
costs hes incurred.
DAS disagreed. It said Mr Gs Barristers opinion  which said his case had 
prospects of success - was too far removed and so couldnt reasonably be relied 
on to challenge the Barristers opinion it had sought.
So, the complaint has come to me for a decision.
Because I disagreed with the Investigators outcome, I issued a provisional decision which 
said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Gs complaint is that DAS didnt tell him he could challenge the Barristers 
prospect of success assessment by providing his own Barristers opinion  and so, he 
thinks his claim has been unfairly declined. I havent been provided with a copy of the 
letter in which DAS told Mr G his claim wasnt covered, but DAS doesnt dispute that it 
omitted to tell Mr G how he could challenge the claim outcome  which is something I 
would have expected it to do.
Ive thought about whether Mr G would have acted differently had he known he could 
challenge the prospects of success assessment. Given Mr G went on to personally fund 
his legal claim, Im satisfied he would have instructed his own Barrister and sought legal 
advice as to the likely success of his legal claim at that stage. But even if Mr G had done 
this, it doesnt mean his legal claim would have had prospects of success. And so, it 
doesnt automatically follow that DAS should cover the claim for failing to tell Mr G how 
he could challenge the outcome of his claim  which is the position our Investigator had 
taken.
Im aware Mr G resigned from his role in late 2020, and subsequently instructed his own 
Barrister for advice in respect of a constructive unfair dismissal claim  which his 
Barrister said enjoyed prospects of success. Mr G considers this to support his position 
that DAS should have covered his legal claim from the start. But based on the 
information I have, Im not persuaded by this argument, and Ill explain why.
I had asked to be provided with a copy of Mr Gs Barristers opinion to see whether the 
positive prospect of success was only in respect of the constructive unfair dismissal 
legalclaim, or whether it included matters of the legal claim raised in 2019. But I havent been 
provided with this and so am unable to determine this. Because it remains unclear as to 
whether Claim A enjoyed prospects of success, Im not persuaded DAS should cover the 
legal costs Mr G incurred. However, if Mr G were to obtain a retrospective Barristers 
prospects of success assessment (which should be based on the information available at 
the time Company As Barrister provided a negative prospect of success assessment), 
DAS should consider this. And if the claim would have had prospects of success, Id 
consider it reasonable for DAS to cover the legal costs Mr G incurred because of pursuing 
legal action.
Compensation
Although DAS has offered £50 to recognise there was a delay in providing its final 
response, I dont think its considered the impact this claim and its handling of it has had 
on Mr G. For approximately three years Mr Gs been dealing with the ongoing stress of 
the claim  and I consider that had DAS told Mr G he could challenge the initial prospects 
of success assessment, the additional stress and inconvenience hes later experienced 
could have been avoided. This, coupled with the difficulties Mr G experiences because of 
his health conditions, persuades me that compensation is warranted, and I consider £400 
to be reasonable.
Barristers fees
Its not clear if Mr G is also unhappy about DAS only partly covering the cost of his 
Barristers legal fees. I assume this is in relation to his Barristers fees for pursuing the 
constructive unfair dismissal legal claim  for which it appears DAS agreed cover. I cant 
see these concerns have been addressed by DAS and so, I wont be commenting on 
them as part of this decision. Mr G will need to raise a complaint about this issue with 
DAS in the first instance.
Both parties replied to my provisional decision. DAS said that whilst it mostly agreed with my 
decision, it considered that if a retrospective Counsel opinion was found to favour Mr G, it 
thought Company A should be responsible for the legal costs and that this ought to be 
pursued as part of Mr Gs legal claim against them. It said this was because Company A had 
seemingly given an incorrect prospects of success assessment. 
Mr G replied asking that if the retrospective opinion said there were prospects of success, 
whether the cost of obtaining it would be reimbursed by DAS, and whether hed have to go 
through this Service to request it. He later asked for an extension to the deadline so that he 
could request information from his Barrister. I agreed to extend the deadline for submissions 
to 11 January 2023.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent been provided with any further evidence, and so, based on the information I do 
have, my final decision follows that set out in my provisional decision. 
With regards to DAS argument that Company A should be responsible for the legal costs 
(should the retrospective Barristers opinion confirm Mr Gs claim had prospects of success), 
Im not persuaded it is relinquished of its obligation to cover costs on the basis that Mr G is 
seeking to pursue a negligence claim against Company A. I say this because ultimately DAS, as the underwriter of the policy, has a duty to cover 
reasonable and proportionate legal costs. And had Mr G been able to provide a Barristers 
opinion which confirmed his legal claim had reasonable prospects of success at the time his 
claim was declined, DAS would have been responsible for the legal costs. So, it follows that 
DAS remains responsible for covering the legal costs should Mr Gs retrospective Barristers 
opinion confirm there were prospects of success. 
Turning to Mr Gs query - if the Barristers retrospective opinion confirms his legal claim had 
prospects of success, then in line with DAS terms and conditions which says  [] We will 
pay the cost of getting the opinion if the experts opinion indicates that it is more likely than 
not that you will recover damages [], I would expect DAS law to cover the reasonable cost 
of obtaining that opinion (subject to proof), as it forms part of Mr Gs legal costs. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Consider a retrospective prospects of success assessment (obtained by Mr G 
and Miss W at their own expense) which should be based on the information 
which was available at the time Company As Barrister said the claim didnt enjoy 
reasonable prospects of success.
If the claim would have had prospects of success, it must reimburse Mr G and 
Miss W the legal costs incurred because of pursuing legal action (subject to 
proof).
Pay Mr G and Miss W £400 compensation in total. It must pay the compensation 
within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr G and Miss W accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman