DRN-3067340
The complaint
Mr Ls complaint about The Frost Partnership arises from the transfer of his pension benefits 
to a self invested personal pension (SIPP) and subsequent investment in an unregulated 
overseas property scheme.
 
What happened
Ive considered Mr Ls complaint before. I issued a jurisdiction decision on 28 February 2021 
(which followed my provisional jurisdiction dated 28 January 2021). And I issued a 
provisional (merits) decision on 24 August 2021. Ive set out here what I said in that 
provisional decision about the background leading up to Mr Ls complaint. Ive also recapped 
my provisional findings. Ive corrected a typing error. I said (on page six of my provisional 
decision) that Mr L had signed the application form for the White Sands investment on 4 
October 2011. That date shouldve read 4 October 2012. I apologise for any confusion.
background
Mr L had deferred benefits in a former employers defined benefits pension scheme. He also
had a group personal pension (GPP) with a major provider. He wanted to re mortgage to
release capital from properties he and his partner owned individually to buy a property
together. He was also interested in raising money to build a bungalow. He had a mortgage
adviser with The Frost Partnership (trading as The Mortgage Shop Southern Region) who Ill
call Mr H.
According to Mr L, Mr H asked if Mr L had any frozen pensions and told Mr L about carbon
credits and a land deal in Brazil. Mr L says he was reluctant at first but Mr H showed him a
brochure and said that, at the very worst, hed get back the money hed invested.
Mr L required regulated advice to transfer out of his existing pensions into a SIPP. Mr H
didnt have the necessary permissions to advise on pensions or investments. Mr H assisted
Mr L with identifying a number of regulated firms who could give advice about transferring
his pensions. Mr L was referred to a firm who Ill call Firm A who had regulatory permissions
to advise on defined benefit transfers.
Firm A issued a suitability report on 16 May 2012 recommending the transfers of both
pension arrangements into a SIPP. Firm A said, in its report, that the funds, once
transferred, should be held in cash. Firm A said its role was limited to providing the transfer
advice for Mr Ls pensions.
Following this, £12,717.21 was transferred from the GPP on 19 June 2012 and
£38,970 from the former employers scheme on 17 July 2012 into a SIPP. An investment of
£31,206.00 (made up of £30,000 for the plot, due diligence fees of £150, Brazilian transfer
fee of £640 plus legal fees of £258) was made into Green Planet Investment Limited which
in turn invested into the White Sands Country Club on 30 November 2012. Mr L says the
carbon credits investment originally proposed was unable to go ahead for some reason and
he was advised to invest instead in White Sands.
Mr L doesnt really recall any other parties involvement and says everything was dealt
with by Mr H. Mr L says he expected to receive a cash sum of about £30,000 which would
assist in funding the building of the bungalow. But he was later told hed only get about
£5,000 as a commission rebate. Mr L has confirmed he received a payment of £7,075. 
Weve seen a copy of a letter from his bank evidencing the payment, which was made on 30
November 2012.
Mr Ls SIPP was closed in December 2016. The White Sands investment was illiquid
and it appeared no value would be returned.
Mr L complained via his representative to The Frost Partnership on 10 May 2017. Its
response on 22 June 2017 didnt include any referral rights to this service. A complaint was
referred to us on 11 April 2018. As The Frost Partnership had said it didnt give Mr L any
advice and wasnt responsible for the transfers or investment, the complaint was referred to
me to decide if we could investigate it. I issued a provisional jurisdiction decision on 28
January 2021, followed by a jurisdiction decision on 24 February 2021. For the reasons I set
out, I said we could consider Mr Ls complaint against The Frost Partnership.
The complaint was then passed to one of our investigators. She issued her view on 17 June
2021. She said the issue to determine was whether The Frost Partnership was responsible
for the investment advice. She noted that Mr L had also made a complaint against Firm A,
which complaint had been dealt with under separate reference. The investigator said all she
was considering was The Frost Partnerships part in the matter. She went on to set out her
findings about that.
She concluded that what Mr L had said about Mr Hs involvement was supported by several
emails, which she set out. The Frost Partnership (through Mr H) had undertaken regulated
activities, including giving investment advice. It had also promoted carbon credits and White
Sands, which were both unregulated investments. That type of investment wasnt suitable for
Mr L. Hed been assessed (by Firm A) as being an adventurous investor. But he didnt have
any background in or experience of investing. He did have a buy to let property which
suggested he was willing to take some risk. The investigator thought he was a medium risk
investor. Further, it didnt appear he had any capacity for loss. The investigator referred to
what the regulator had said about unregulated investments such as UCIS (unregulated
collective investment schemes). Investing the bulk of Mr Ls SIPP fund in an unregulated and
illiquid investment such as White Sands wasnt suitable for him.
 
The investigator set out how The Frost Partnership should compensate Mr L. She said The
Frost Partnership should compare how Mr Ls White Sands investment (which should be
assumed to have a nil value) had performed against a benchmark - the FTSE UK Private
Investors Income Total Return Index. She also said Mr L should get £300 for the trouble and
upset hed been caused. She said the payment of £7,075 hed received could be taken into
account.
The Frost Partnership didnt accept the investigators view. It said we were biased and Mr Ls
complaint shouldve been discontinued. It made the following points:
It was clear that The Frost Partnership hadnt given investment advice and wasnt
responsible for Mr Ls investment decisions. Mr L could only have transferred his
pension arrangements to a SIPP with the services of an independent financial
adviser (IFA). He instructed an IFA (Firm A) and theyd advised him. His existing
pension provider wouldve insisted on a letter of confirmation that Mr L had received
advice from a qualified adviser with a regulated firm that held the correct
permissions. Mr Ls original pension provider had confirmed that The Frost
Partnership had no involvement in the process.The Frost Partnership had made its own enquiries of the SIPP provider whod
confirmed the instruction to sell or purchase an investment normally comes from the
IFA who set up the SIPP and acts on behalf of the client. The SIPP holder acts as
their own market maker and assumes sole responsibility for their investment
decisions and signs a market maker agreement per transaction. According to the
SIPP provider, the agreement provided to and signed by Mr L clearly confirms The
Frost Partnership had no involvement in the investment purchase or advice.
Mr L was a long standing client and a personal friend of Mr H, dating back to Mr Hs
previous company, many years before he worked as a self employed mortgage
adviser with The Frost Partnership.
There was no basis for upholding Mr Ls complaint which was clearly with the IFA
who advised him and potentially the SIPP provider who wouldve carried out its own
due diligence before approving Mr Ls investment choice.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive set out above. Ive considered jurisdiction before. But were required to keep
jurisdiction under review throughout our consideration of a complaint. Ive done that. But I
havent seen anything which makes me think what I said earlier wasnt right. For the reasons
I set out in my jurisdiction decision, I think Mr H was acting as an agent of The Frost
Partnership in his dealings with Mr L. Mr H had actual authority and that means The Frost
Partnership is responsible for what he did.
Ive considered the complaint under various headings.
What did Mr H/The Frost Partnership do?
From what Ive seen, the idea to use Mr Ls existing pension funds to invest in carbon credits
or White Sands came from Mr H. Thats what Mr L has told us. And what he says is backed
up by Mr Hs email of 20 January 2012 in which Mr H asks for details of Mr Ls frozen
pensions to see what options there are.
Mr Hs involvement at the outset is also evidenced by Firm As suitability report which
records that Mr L had met with Mr H and hed be involved in arranging the investment. Mr H
knew, because Mr L had deferred benefits in a former employers final salary scheme, Mr L
would need advice from a firm with the appropriate permissions (which Firm A had) if he
wanted to transfer the value of those benefits. I cant see that an inexperienced and
unsophisticated investor such as Mr L, with no track record of holding non mainstream
investments, wouldve been aware of the possibility of investing in carbon credits or White
Sands unless those investments had been suggested to him.
Towards the end of July 2012 and once the transfers had been completed, Mr H got in touch
with Mr L again - Mr H emailed on 26 July 2012 asking if Mr L still wanted to invest 100% in
carbon credits or in land in Dubai and/or Brazil. It seems that no investments were at that
stage made. I suspect, given the email dated 8 August 2012 (which reached The Frost
Partnerships principal and was forwarded to Mr H) and Mr Hs email to Mr L, that a change
in SIPP provider was being contemplated. It appears that the original SIPP operator had
decided against allowing carbon credits as an investment or was limiting how much could be
invested. Mr L remained with the original SIPP operator. But the emails evidence Mr Hs
continued involvement.The same is true of Mr Hs email to Mr L on 1 October 2012. Mr H pointed out that Mr Ls
SIPP fund (some £48,000) remained uninvested before going on to set out that Mr L could
invest 50% of it in carbon credits or in land in Brazil.
Overall, Im satisfied theres evidence to show that Mr H was involved at the outset and after
the SIPP had been set up with the transferred funds held in cash. Mr L then went on to make
the investment in White Sands.
Did Mr H/The Frost Partnership undertake any regulated activities?
 
We cant consider every complaint about what a financial services business may have done.
Our compulsory jurisdiction covers firms - that is financial businesses that are authorised by
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) (as The Frost Partnership is) to carry on one or more
regulated activities. The complaint needs to be about the carrying on of a regulated activity.
There are other activities which we cover (see DISP (Dispute Resolution) 2.4.1R) but they
arent relevant here.
It doesnt matter, for the purposes of our jurisdiction, if the complaint is about a regulated
activity which the firm doesnt have permission to undertake. The Frost Partnership may not
have permission to give investment advice or undertake other investment related regulated
activities. But thats an issue for the regulator. If regulated activities were carried out by an
authorised firm, we can consider a complaint about an act or omission in carrying out the
regulated activity in question.
That means I need to decide if Mr H undertook any regulated activities. The investigator said
hed promoted investments, assisted with paperwork, given investment advice and obtained
pension plan details from Mr L. Promotion isnt a regulated activity as such, although, and as
discussed below, it may extend to giving advice about investments or involve other regulated
activities. Assisting with the paperwork can be part of the regulated activity of arranging
(bringing about) deals in investments or making arrangements with a view to transactions in
investments.
I think the central issue is whether Mr H gave investment advice. Mr L says he was advised
by Mr H. Theres no formal record of advice being given, such as a recommendation letter.
But advice doesnt have to be given in writing. I dont know exactly what was discussed
between Mr L and Mr H. The latter might say that he just gave Mr L information which didnt
amount to advice. As the investigator suggested, there may be an issue about whether Mr H
promoted an unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS) in breach of the restrictions
on promotion. But Im not going to go into all that here when, as Ive said, promotion isnt a
regulated activity.
Advising on investments is a regulated activity - see article 53(1) of the Regulated Activities
Order (RAO). In summary it involves advice given to a person in their capacity as an investor
or potential investor on the merits of their buying, selling, subscribing for, exchanging,
redeeming, holding or underwriting a specified investment.
In the FCAs view (see PERG (Perimeter Guidance) 8.28.1G), advice requires an element of
opinion on the part of the adviser. It is in effect a recommendation as to a course of action. In
contrast, providing information involves statements of fact or figures. PERG 8.28.2G
continues:
(1) In general terms, simply giving Information without making any comment or value
judgment on Its relevance to decisions which an Investor may make Is not advice.
(2) The provision of purely factual Information does not become regulated advice merelybecause It feeds into the customer's own decision-making process and Is taken Into account
by them.
(3) Regulated advice Includes any communication with the customer which, In the particular
context In which It Is given, goes beyond the mere provision of Information and Is objectively
likely to Influence the customer's decision whether or not to buy or sell.
(4) A key to the giving of advice Is that the Information:
(a) Is either accompanied by comment or value judgment on the relevance of that
Information to the customer's Investment decision: or
(b) Is Itself the product of a process of selection Involving a value judgment so that the
Information will tend to Influence the decision.
(5) Advice can still be regulated advice If the person receiving the advice:
(a) Is free to follow or disregard the advice: or
(b) may receive further advice from another person (such as their usual financial adviser)
before making a final decision.
The emails Ive seen indicate that Mr H went beyond just providing information. For example,
in his email of 20 January 2012 Mr H asks Mr L to provide information, including as to the
approximate value of his frozen pensions. Mr H then goes on to say that, when he has that
information, we can see what options (If any) there are. I think that indicates Mr H will be
considering with Mr L the latters position, with a view to suggesting (or expressing an
opinion) as to what Mr L might do.
Even if thats reading too much into the email, the later email sent on 1 October 2012 goes
further. Mr H sets out some investment options before concluding:
If you want to continue with a land purchase, let me know. I will put the wheels In motion. A
£30,000 land Investment + £16,000 cash + an £8,000 refund of commission Is far more than
your original fund value.
I think thats an expression of opinion on Mr Hs part that Mr L should take that route. And I
think it evidences that, in further discussions, Mr H steered Mr L towards investing in White
Sands. Mr H offered to talk things through with Mr L. I think the content and tone of the email
indicates that Mr Hs view was that Mr L should invest. I think Mr H wouldve made that clear
in discussion and that whatever he said is likely to have amounted to advice. I note, from the
above, that it can still be regulated advice if the person receives further advice. Here Mr L
got further advice from Firm A about the transfers even if Firm A said its advice didnt extend
to the investments Mr L proposed to make. But that further advice wont mean that anything
Mr H said wont have amounted to advice.
The advice must be in connection with a specified investment. Article 82(2) of the RAO
proves that rights under a person pension scheme is a specified investment. And a SIPP
meets the definition of a personal pension scheme set out in Article 3 of the RAO. The
rights that the beneficiary of a SIPP has under the trust arrangements that establish the
SIPP constitute a specified investment. Those rights are also a security for the purposes of
the RAO. PERG 12.3 gives guidance as to what constitutes rights under a personal pension
scheme that are specified investments and securities. If the SIPP is specified investment
then an authorised person will conduct regulated activities in relation to the SIPP, including
advising on investments.
But, even if the SIPP itself wasnt a specified investment, I still think Mr H gave investment
advice. The White Sands investment wasnt regulated and it may be arguable that advice on
buying it may not have been, on its own, a regulated activity. But Mr Ls investment in White
Sands was made from the transfer values paid by his former employers scheme and the
GPP into his SIPP. Mr L would only be in a position to invest if he was able to access funds
held in his existing pension arrangements.Advice about giving up (or selling) Mr Ls rights in those schemes would be regulated advice
(and, as Ive explained, notwithstanding that The Frost Partnership didnt have the right
regulatory permissions). If Mr H gave the impression that investing in carbon credits and/or
White Sands was better than Mr Ls existing pension arrangements, then that would amount
to advice on the merits of selling those two regulated investments. In the circumstances, and
given what Ive said about Mr Hs emails, I think Mr H did undertake the regulated activity of
advising on investments.
The Frost Partnership has pointed to the documentation held by the SIPP provider which, it
suggests, could show that The Frost Partnership wasnt involved in the White Sands
investment. And The Frost Partnership may not have been involved in the formal advisory
process in connection with the transfers or in setting up the SIPP. But, as Ive explained, that
wont mean that investment advice wasnt given.
Ive seen the application form for the White Sands investment which Mr L signed on 4
October 2012. Generally, where an investment instruction is given by an I FA, its likely that
any advice about the investment was given by that I FA. But here Mr L gave the investment
instruction himself. The application form wasnt completed by an I FA on his behalf and
theres nothing on the form where an advisers details have been inserted. The form did
include a disclaimer (initialled and signed by Mr L). Amongst other things it said that he
hadnt received or relied on any financial advice from Green Planet. And that, when and
where required, hed obtained all financial advice from his IFA and that his relationship with
Green Planet was solely and exclusively that hed purchased a property from them after
receiving financial advice from a third party to do so.
Although the form does indicate that Mr L had taken advice (and not from Green Planet), the
IFA isnt named. So the application form doesnt assist The Frost Partnership in showing that
another firm was responsible for placing the investment and so is likely to have advised Mr L
about it.
I further note that Mr H has said he did help Mr L with the paperwork. Mr H may say he
assisted Mr L on an informal basis and as a friend. But the emails werent sent from Mr Hs
personal email address. And I found (in my jurisdiction decision) that Mr H was acting on
behalf of and with The Frost Partnerships apparent authority. Completing the paperwork
might amount to the regulated activity of arranging deals in investments or making
arrangements with a view to transactions in investments. But I havent considered that
further, given my finding that Mr H did undertake the regulated activity of advising on
investments. That means we can consider a complaint about how that activity was carried
out and if the advice was suitable. Given that finding, I dont think the outcome would change
if Mr H carried out other regulated activities.
Was Mr Hs/The Frost Partnerships advice suitable?
I agree with the investigator that investing all of Mr Ls modest pension funds in an
unregulated investment (whether carbon credits or White Sands) wasnt suitable for him.
White Sands was an overseas property development with no track record and subject to
multiple risk factors. It was non mainstream and not suitable for someone like Mr L who had
little or no investment experience or knowledge.
Even if hed indicated that he wanted to take a high degree of risk with his pension savings, I
dont think he had any real capacity for loss. Aside from his home and a buy to let property
(which was subject to a mortgage) he had no other savings or investments. I dont think he
was in a position to take a high degree of risk with his only pension provisions.Did Mr L suffer loss as a result of the unsuitable advice?
I think its clear that Mr L has suffered financial losses. From what Ive seen, his White Sands
investment has been lost and has no value. Mr L may well have suffered losses over and
above the money he invested in White Sands in consequence of giving up benefits in his
former employers pension scheme.
The Frost Partnership wont be responsible for Mr Ls losses if, despite Mr Hs involvement,
Mr L wouldve gone ahead with the transfers and the investment anyway. But I dont think
thats the case. First, and as Ive said, I cant see that Mr L would even have known about
the White Sands investment but for Mr H telling him about it. It wasnt the case that Mr L was
predisposed to transferring so that he could invest as he did. Or that hed already identified
carbon credits and/or White Sands as investments he was interested in.
But Mr L did get a cash payment of £7,075 in return for investing. I recognise that wouldve
been an incentive for him to invest and that its possible hed have wanted to proceed in any
event, just to secure that payment.
Mr L has said that initially he thought hed get a much higher cash payment - £30,000. I can
see that would have been very attractive to him, especially as he was planning a building
project. But he was later told hed get less. Im not sure when he found out hed only get a
lower amount. I note Mr Hs 1 October 2012 email refers to a commission rebate of £6,500
or £8,000, depending on whether Mr L invested in carbon credits (limited to 50% of his fund)
or White Sands. That was after the transfers had been completed. Its possible, when Mr L
decided to go ahead with the transfers, he thought hed be getting a much larger amount.
But, by the time he decided to invest in White Sands, he knew hed only be getting a lower
amount. Mr L actually received £7,075. Thats still a sizeable amount and is likely to have
been a factor in his decision to invest in White Sands.
Mr L has told us he used the money for home improvements. It doesnt seem he had any
debts that he needed to clear quickly or any other pressing financial commitments which
meant that he had an urgent need for a cash sum. It seems it was more of a nice to have. I
havent seen anything to suggest hed have gone ahead with the investment anyway and
just to secure the payment.
I think Mr L wouldve been more influenced by Mr H than the cash sum on offer. I understand
their business relationship went back some years and theyd become friends. Mr L is likely to
have trusted Mr H, his advice and his judgment. Its apparent, from the email of 1 October
2012, that Mr H thought investing £30,000 in land in Brazil (White Sands) was a good idea -
he said that the figures, including a refund of commission of £8,000, added up to far more
than Mr Ls original fund value. I think Mr L wouldve placed weight on Mr Hs opinion. I think
Mr Ls decision to proceed was down to Mr Hs advice.
Ive gone on to consider the involvement of others and if and how that impacts on The Frost
Partnerships responsibility for Mr Ls losses.
To what extent is The Frost Partnership responsible for Mr Ls losses
DISP 3.6.1R requires me to determine a complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion,
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. I agree that the involvement of other
parties is a relevant factor.
DISP 3.5.2G, DISP 3.5.3G and DISP 3.6.3G are relevant too. Under DISP 3.5.2G we mayinform the complainant that it might be appropriate to complain against some other
respondent. DISP 3.5.3G says where two or more complaints from one complainant relate to
connected circumstances, we may investigate them together (but issue separate provisional
assessments and determinations in respect of each respondent). And DISP 3.6.3G says
that, where a complainant makes complaints against more than one respondent in respect of
connected circumstances, we may determine that the respondents must contribute towards
the overall award in the proportion that we consider appropriate.
I acknowledge that Mr H/The Frost Partnership wasnt the only party involved in the overall
transaction - made up of the transfers of Mr Ls existing pension arrangements to a SIPP
and the subsequent investment in White Sands. Mr L was referred to Firm A, a regulated
firm who had the necessary permissions to advise on defined benefit pension transfers. Firm
As suitability report also mentioned another regulated firm. And the SIPP provider was
regulated too.
Mr L has made separate complaints against more than one respondent. His complaint
against Firm A has been considered under separate reference. Mr L hasnt made any
complaint about the SIPP operator. Nor have we suggested that might be appropriate. Its up
to Mr L and his advisers if they think a complaint might lie. But we have obtained information
from the SIPP provider as part of our investigation of Mr Ls complaints.
If Mr L had recovered all or part of his losses from another party then Id need to take that
into account in deciding what, if any, compensation The Frost Partnership should have to
pay. But that doesnt apply here. We havent made any award against any other party and,
as far as Im aware, Mr L hasnt recovered any compensation from any other source.
Several parties can be liable for the loss a complainant has suffered. Liability might attach to
different parties in varying degrees. In some circumstances, it may be possible to apportion
loss, having regard to the extent of each partys responsibility for the loss. But that might not
be the right approach in other cases. One party may have played a central and undisputed
role. The parts played by others may be peripheral or in dispute with little or no evidence to
show the extent of any involvement. It may be appropriate to say that one party should meet
the complainants losses in full and leave it up to that party if it wishes to seek a contribution
from others. It will all depend on the circumstances of the particular case.
The present complaint is made against The Frost Partnership. I dont think its wrong to
concentrate on what that firm did. If, as Ive found. The Frost Partnership was at fault, then
my starting position is that The Frost Partnership is responsible, to some extent at least, for
the losses Mr L has suffered as a result of transferring to the SIPP and investing in White
Sands.
The Frost Partnership has pointed to Firm As involvement. I can see the argument that the
funds were released by the transfers to the SIPP and that, but for the transfers, the money
wouldnt have been available to Mr L to invest in White Sands. Further, The Frost
Partnership wasnt directly involved in the transfers as Mr L required specialist advice which
he got, from Firm A, who facilitated the transfers. But the transfers were part of an overall
transaction. Looking at it from that perspective and given what Ive said about Mr H being the
catalyst for the transfers and instrumental in how the SIPP fund came to be invested in
White Sands, I dont think it would be fair to say The Frost Partnerships responsibility for
any and all loss must fall away because of Firm As transfer advice. And in circumstances
where Mr L has yet to recover any part of his losses.
But Ive taken Firm As part into account in considering redress. The losses Mr L has
suffered as a result of the transfers go beyond any loss hes suffered in consequence of
investing in White Sands. He gave up valuable guaranteed benefits in his former employerspension scheme and the cost of replicating those benefits is likely to be more than just
making up any investment losses hes suffered as a result of the failure of his White Sands
investment.
I think its possible to say The Frost Partnership should be responsible for all Mr Ls losses -
including any in consequence of giving up final salary benefits in his former employers
scheme. Particularly given what Ive said about the extent of the investment advice Ive
found Mr H gave. But Ive concluded that, in the circumstances of this case, that wouldnt be
fair and reasonable. As Ive said, where its clear that other parties were involved, liability
can attach to several parties in varying degrees. It will depend on whats fair and reasonable,
having regard to the extent of a partys responsibility for the loss thats been suffered.
Here I think its fair and reasonable to say that The Frost Partnership should be responsible
for Mr Ls investment losses. That takes into account Firm As involvement in giving Mr L
formal advice to transfer and setting up the SIPP. But also reflects Mr Hs part in the matter
and which centred upon the investments Mr L would be able to make if he transferred.
The Frost Partnership should contribute to Mr Ls overall losses by redressing him for his
losses on the White Sands investment. The investigator proposed redress on that basis and
Ive adopted her suggested redress which Ive set out again below. The investigator said,
and I agree, that the payment of £7,075 that Mr L received could be taken into account. Hes
had the use and benefit of that money and I dont think it would be fair to ignore it.
In reaching these conclusions I dont agree with the suggestion that were biased in favour of
Mr L. Hes made a complaint about The Frost Partnerships involvement in the transfer of his
pension benefits to a SIPP and subsequent investment in White Sands. Weve considered
very carefully what The Frost Partnership says about why it isnt responsible. But any finding
that, on the facts, Mr H was involved and was acting with The Frost Partnerships actual
authority and it is responsible for losses Mr L has suffered, doesnt mean were biased
towards Mr L. Where what happened isnt agreed and the evidence is incomplete or
inconclusive, we reach our decisions on the balance of probabilities - in other words, what
we consider is most likely to have happened in light of the such evidence as there is and the
wider circumstances. Thats the approach Ive taken here.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr Ls representative confirmed that Mr L accepted my provisional decision and had nothing 
further to add. The Frost Partnership didnt agree with what Id said. It made the following 
points: 
Mr L was being seen as the victim but his clear motivation was always to access the 
money in his pension fund to finance his alleged building project. He knew that was 
illegal otherwise hed have asked his existing pension provider to release his fund to 
him.  Hed benefitted by receiving a cash sum from his pension. Hed have received 
warnings about liberating his pension fund which hed chosen to ignore. 
Hed originally said he wanted to take £30,000 from his pension. That shows he had 
no interest in investing in his pension  he clearly wanted to extract the maximum 
amount of cash from his pension. Did we know and had we ever asked if the 
payment he got was disclosed to HMRC, the IFA or the SIPP provider? 
The Frost Partnership received no remuneration for referring Mr L to an IFA yet is 
being asked to shoulder his losses even though the IFA and the SIPP provider 
received a fee. That indicates bias.
The investment wouldve had to have been approved by the SIPP provider and on its list of approved products/investments. The SIPP provider wouldve undertaken due 
diligence. Several SIPP providers have had complaints upheld against them. 
Mr L had alleged that Mr H gave him a brochure. Mr H had strongly denied any 
brochure was provided. 
The IFA had recommended that Mr L transfer into a SIPP to be held in cash with no 
return and incur the IFAs and the SIPP providers fees. Those parties cant be seen 
as innocent when theyd been complicit in the process. That indicates bias. 
In the five years between 2012 and 2017 the SIPP provider wouldve issued annual 
statements showing the value of Mr Ls SIPP. Had those statements been made 
available and had Mr L confirmed hed received them and what action hed taken?
The IFA had assessed Mr L as an adventurous investor, but Id said he was medium 
risk. The SIPP provider had no doubt relied on the IFAs assessment otherwise Mr L 
wouldnt have been able to invest as he did. Again that indicated bias. 
The SIPP provider had accepted the investment instruction with the section for advice from 
an IFA left blank. If Mr H was advising why didnt Mr L ask Mr H to sign that section of the 
form? Or was it the case, as the SIPP provider suggests, that Mr L was acting on an 
execution only basis?
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the points made by The Frost Partnership in response to my provisional 
decision. 
Mr L may have been interested in using money in his pension fund to help finance his 
building project. But, from what Ive seen, the idea of doing that came from Mr H. He brought 
up the subject of Mr Ls frozen pension and what Mr L might want to do with it.  
I dont think Mr L must have known he couldnt lawfully access his pension fund. Pensions 
are a complex area and Mr L wasnt an expert. I think hed have been guided by professional 
advice. If it was suggested to him, by a trusted adviser, that, by switching to a different 
pension arrangement, he might be able to access some or all of his pension fund, I dont see 
why hed have thought there might be an issue with that. 
I dont think it follows that Mr L had no interest in investing his pension. Its one thing to want 
to take money out for a particular project on the basis thats permitted. But, if Mr L had been 
told he couldnt do that, then I dont doubt hed have wanted to preserve his pension fund to 
meet the purpose it was designed for  providing an income in retirement.
Im not sure what warnings, if any, Mr L might have seen about pensions liberation. And, in 
any event, this wasnt a pensions liberation scheme. It was a transfer to a different pension 
vehicle  a SIPP  and an investment in an overseas property scheme, albeit one that was 
high risk and ultimately failed. 
Mr L did get a cash payment. As I said in my provisional decision, although it seems a higher 
sum was initially mentioned, by the time Mr L went ahead with the White Sands investment, 
he knew hed only be getting a lower amount. That said, the £7,075 he actually received is a 
significant amount. But I still think Mr Ls decision to invest rested more on what Mr H had 
said, and the trust Mr L placed in him, than the prospect of a cash sum. I dont know if the IFA (the pension transfer specialist) who advised in connection with the 
transfer was aware of the payment. Or if the SIPP provider knew about it. If they didnt know 
then there was no onus on either party to query it with Mr L and/or discuss with him the 
legitimacy of any payment. Im not sure if the payment has been disclosed to HMRC. I think 
theres a possibility, if it comes to light, that Mr L could face an unauthorised payment 
charge. But whether that will be the case and, if so, what amount, if any, Mr L may have to 
pay is uncertain. 
I accept The Frost Partnership may not have received any remuneration in respect of Mr Hs 
dealings with Mr L. But that doesnt mean that The Frost Partnership wont be responsible if 
Mr H gave unsuitable advice to Mr L and Mr L has suffered a loss in consequence. 
The Frost Partnership contends that it wasnt the only party involved. I accept that. And I 
recognise that other parties may also have had responsibilities to Mr L. Im not saying that 
other parties werent at fault. I havent reached any findings about other parties here. All Im 
considering is The Frost Partnerships/Mr Hs part in the matter. 
Ive found that Mr H played a central role and gave unsuitable advice. Against that 
background, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable to uphold a complaint against The Frost 
Partnership and make an award against it. That doesnt indicate bias. It simply reflects the 
fact that Im dealing with a complaint against it and, regardless of what other parties may 
have done (or not done) Im upholding that complaint. If The Frost Partnership considers that 
any other party is responsible for the loss Ive said it should meet, it may be open to The 
Frost Partnership to pursue that other party and seek a contribution or indemnity. 
As Im not dealing with a complaint against the SIPP provider, I dont see that its 
responsibilities and what due diligence it undertook or what it understood about Mr Ls 
attitude to risk are directly relevant. I can of course see the argument that, had the SIPP 
provider not been prepared to accept the White Sands investment (as it seems may have 
happened with the carbon credits investment originally proposed) then the investment 
couldnt have gone ahead. But the fact of the matter is that the White Sands investment was 
made and Ive found that was on Mr Hs advice. The investment was unsuitable and Mr L 
has suffered loss in consequence. I dont think its unfair or unreasonable in those 
circumstances to say The Frost Partnership is responsible for Mr Ls investment losses. 
I dont think much turns on the point about a brochure. From what Mr L has said, the 
investment was suggested by and discussed with Mr H. As to whether Mr L made the 
investment on an execution only basis, Ive noted that no adviser is shown on the relevant 
section of the investment application form. But that, and taking into account the other 
evidence, doesnt mean that Mr L didnt have any advice about the investment. I dont know 
if he asked Mr H to sign the adviser section of the form. Mr H may have declined. Or said it 
wasnt necessary. I dont see anything turns on this. For the reasons Ive given earlier, I think 
Mr H did advise Mr L in connection with the investment. 
As to the annual statements issued by the SIPP provider, Im not sure if theres some 
suggestion that Mr Ls complaint has been made too late  on the basis that the SIPP 
statements may have showed that the value of his investment had reduced or that no value 
was expected to be returned. The SIPP statement issued on 26 June 2013 showed the 
value of Mr Ls investment was £30,000, which was the cost of the plot. There was nothing 
to make Mr L think that anything had gone wrong. Hes told us he thought there might be 
problems with his investment about six months or so later when he received, in January 
2014, a letter from the SIPP provider saying the investment was in liquidation. And in 
December 2016 Mr Ls SIPP was closed  the White Sands investment was illiquid and it 
appeared no value would be returned.  
But, even if Mr L was aware there was a problem in early 2014, his dealings with Mr H were 
in 2012 and his investment in White Sands was made in November 2012. By June 2017 Mr 
Ls representative had been in contact with The Frost Partnership to complain about its part 
in the matter. And its clear that Mr F was aware of Mr Ls complaint  Ive seen Mr Fs letter 
dated 22 June 2017 (which was followed by Mr Ls representatives reply dated 20 
September 2017). Mr Ls complaint was made to The Frost Partnership within the primary 
six year period. The three year period  when Mr L became aware (or ought reasonably to 
have become aware) he might have cause for complaint - isnt relevant.
As Ive said, were required to keep jurisdiction under review throughout our consideration of 
a complaint. Ive done that. I havent seen anything which makes me think what Ive said 
earlier about why we can consider this complaint against The Frost Partnership was wrong. 
Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. The Frost Partnership must contribute to Mr Ls overall 
losses by redressing him for his investment losses arising from his White Sands investment 
any pay him compensation of £300 for the trouble and upset the unsuitable advice has 
caused.  Ive repeated the redress set out in my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr L as close as possible to 
the position hed probably be in now if hed been given suitable advice. I think hed have 
invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what hed have done, but Im satisfied 
what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable, given Mr Ls circumstances and objectives 
when he invested.
what should The Frost Partnership do?
To compensate Mr L fairly The Frost Partnership should:
Compare the performance of Mr L's investment with that of the benchmark shown
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no
compensation is payable.
Pay any interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, it should be paid into Mr Ls pension plan, to increase its value
by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation shouldnt be paid
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If the compensation cant be paid into Mr Ls pension plan (and I note his SIPP has
now been closed and he may not have an alternative pension arrangement) it should
be paid direct to him.
But, had it been possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve provided a taxable income.
Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be
calculated using Mr Ls actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected
retirement age. For example, if hes likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected
retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if he
wouldve been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to
75% of the compensation.
Pay Mr L £300 for the trouble and upset caused by the unsuitable advice.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr L in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If The Frost Partnership considers it
is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, itshould tell Mr L how much it has taken off and give him a tax deduction certificate if
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if
appropriate.
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If, at the end
date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open market), it may
be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be assumed
to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. The Frost Partnership should take ownership of the
illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This
amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If The Frost Partnership is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation.
The Frost Partnership may wish to require that Mr L provides an undertaking to pay it any
amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for
any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan.
The Frost Partnership will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a
return using the benchmark. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep
calculations simpler. Ill accept if all those payments are totalled and that figure deducted at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
The calculations should take into account the commission rebate received by Mr L. It can be
treated as a partial redemption of the investment on the date the commission was paid
(£7,075 on 30 November 2012).
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr L wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison
given Mr L's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. The Frost Partnership must redress Mr L as Ive set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman