DRN-4392942
The complaint
Mrs N complains TSB Bank plc wont refund her for an ATM withdrawal she says didnt 
dispense. Shes also unhappy £500 was removed from her account by the business. She 
would like the money refunded and compensation.
What happened
The facts which led to Mrs N bringing her complaint to our service are well known to both 
parties, so I am not repeating them in full here. But in summary Mrs N went to an ATM 
owned by a bank I will refer to as Bank B to withdraw £500 from her TSB account. She says 
she didnt carry out the transaction and went to a different ATM. Here she was told she had 
reached her withdrawal limit. Following Mrs N reporting this to TSB they provided a 
temporary refund of £500. 
TSB looked into the issue. They decided that Mrs N had received her funds and TSB 
declined her claim. They also removed the £500 from her account which they had originally 
refunded.
Mrs N was unhappy with TSB, so she complained to our service. One of the investigators 
looked into the complaint. She thought TSB hadnt acted unfairly when it declined the claim. 
The technical evidence showed that the funds had dispensed correctly.
Mrs N was unhappy with the view. She provided more information. Our investigator didnt 
think the information provided changed the outcome.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs N has said that the original ATM machine she went to on 27 February 2023 from Bank B 
wouldnt dispense more than £250 so Mrs N says she didnt proceed with the withdrawal and 
instead went to a different machine. At the second ATM machine belonging to TSB Mrs N 
tried to withdraw £500 but she was unable to because she had exceeded the daily limit. 
Mrs N called the bank to explain the situation. TSB raised an ATM dispute, and she was 
refunded the £500 whilst they investigated.  Eventually TSB declined her claim and took the 
money out of her account. Mrs N says this left her overdrawn and her benefits money went 
to clear the overdraft, leaving her with no funds for everyday expenses.
From what Ive seen I think its reasonable for TSB to decline to refund Mrs N, I say this 
because:
TSB contacted Bank B, the ATM provider, who provided journal roll for the ATM 
machine showing the cash had dispensed correctly.
The journal roll shows that the person using the ATM before Mrs N and the person 
using it after both dispensed correctly.
Mrs N says she didnt carry out the transaction but its not clear how someone else 
could have got hold of Mrs Ns card and Pin and used it in the ATM of bank B to 
withdraw £500 when Mrs N hasnt told us her card was missing.
The £500 were withdrawn from the ATM of bank B at 17.44. A balance enquiry was 
carried out before the withdrawal took place.
Mrs N has said that the TSB ATM declined to dispense, as she had reached her daily 
limit of £500. I have seen information to suggest that this decline happened at 21.22. 
This is considerably later than the time Mrs N is supposed to have gone to the first 
ATM. She has told this service she went to the first ATM Between 5 and 6pm. 
The funds showed as withdrawn on Mrs Ns statement
From the statements I see Mrs N regularly took out £500 in cash 
Mrs N has said the reason why she didnt use the ATM from bank B is that it would 
only dispense up to £250. Mrs N has said she realised this and that is why she 
cancelled the transaction and went to a different ATM.
Mrs Ns explanation of what happened that evening isnt consistent with the technical 
evidence.
There is no point of compromise for Mrs Ns card and Pin and the technical evidence 
suggests that the money was dispensed by the ATM at bank B following a balance 
enquiry.
There is no evidence of money being retained in the purge box of the ATM machine 
for bank B.
The further evidence provided by Mrs N to the investigator after the view doesnt 
explain how someone could have taken Mrs Ns card and used it and returned her 
card to her in time for it to be used at the TSB ATM.
Ive considered the technical evidence provided as well as the information that Mrs N has 
provided to us. As Ive said, Mrs Ns explanation of what happened isnt consistent with the 
technical evidence. The evidence Ive seen suggests its more likely than not that either 
Mrs N or someone she knows used the card at the ATM machine of Bank B and withdrew 
£500. It follows I dont think Mrs N is entitled to get a refund of £500.
Mrs N was unhappy that TSB removed £500 from her account after it finished its 
investigation and declined to refund Mrs N. I am satisfied that TSB told Mrs N of their 
intention to remove the money from her account, they sent letters to her on 7 March and 27 
April 2023. I appreciate that TSB removed the funds on 11 May 2023 and this left Mrs N 
overdrawn. However, Mrs N knew on 7 March 2023 that her claim had been unsuccessful, 
and TSB would be removing £500 from her account. I accept this was difficult for Mrs N, but 
the money didnt belong to Mrs N, so I dont think TSB have done anything wrong when they 
removed £500 from her account.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman