DRN-4146996
The complaint
Mr S complains through a representative that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as 
MoneyBoat.co.uk (MoneyBoat) provided him with loans which he couldnt afford.
  
What happened
Mr S was granted six loans by MoneyBoat, Ive outlined his borrowing history in the table 
below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £400.00 09/08/2019 25/11/2019 4 £140.77
2 £400.00 29/11/2019 25/03/2020 4 £153.72
3 £400.00 09/04/2020 24/07/2020 4 £144.94
4 £300.00 12/08/2020 25/11/2020 4 £106.72
5 £400.00 04/12/2020 25/03/2021 4 £149.53
6 £400.00 07/05/2021 25/08/2021 4 £146.86
MoneyBoat reviewed Mr Ss representatives complaint and didnt uphold it because the 
lending appeared affordable.  Unhappy with this response, Mr Ss representative referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
An adjudicator then considered the complaint and he upheld it in full. Firstly, he said the 
credit check carried out before loan one was advanced showed arrears on Mr Ss mortgage 
and a recent default. And by loan six, the lending was now harmful for Mr S. 
MoneyBoat disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In summary it said:
While it knew Mr Ss mortgage was in arrears  it had been that way for at least a 
year, but the account hadnt defaulted, and the balance was decreasing. 
While there were some active accounts, the number decreased over time, and by 
loan six there were only three outstanding. 
The information MoneyBoat was aware of wasnt enough to have prevented it from 
approving the loans, instead it accepts it perhaps ought to have asked for more 
information.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr S could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ss 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr S. These factors include:
Mr S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr S. The adjudicator considered this 
applied to loan six only.  
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr S was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ss complaint.
Loans 1  5 
Before each loan was approved, MoneyBoat asked Mr S for details of his income, which he 
declared as being between £2,300 at loan one down to £1,970 at loan five. MoneyBoat says 
the income figures were checked by cross referencing information through a third-party 
report.  
Mr S also declared monthly outgoings as low as £1,008 when loan three was advanced and 
as high as £1,479 when loan one was granted. As part of the application process, 
MoneyBoat used information from its credit search (which Ill come onto discuss below) to 
adjust the declared expenditure Mr S provided. As a result, of this check, Mr Ss monthly 
expenditure was increased for each loan - by £315 for loan one and then smaller sums of 
between £30 and £60 for the remaining loans.   
After carrying out these checks, Mr Ss disposable income ranged from £505 at loan two to 
as large as £955 at the time loan four was granted. And so even when MoneyBoat made adjustments to the disposable income Mr S had declared, he still had sufficient income to be 
able to afford the repayments he had to make. 
Before each loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided a summary of the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth 
saying here that although MoneyBoat carried out credit searches, there isnt a regulatory 
requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what MoneyBoat couldnt do 
is carry out a credit search and then not react to the information it received  if necessary.  
And its these credit search results that the adjudicator thought showed sufficient financial 
distress that these loans ought to not have been provided. Looking at the results from loan 
one, MoneyBoat knew that Mr S had total debts of around £84,000 but nearly £83,000 of 
that was owed on a mortgage. 
But on revolving budget / credit accounts MoneyBoat knew that Mr S was significantly over 
his credit limits  he owed £517 compared to credit limits of £350. It also knew there were six 
active credit accounts and four accounts had entered delinquency within the last year. So, 
there signs Mr S had, in the not too distant past, had some repayment problems on credit 
account(s). 
MoneyBoat also knew within the last six years Mr S had defaulted on a total of six accounts. 
And while some were historic  Mr S had defaulted on credit card accounts in April 2019 and 
in June 2019  around six weeks before loan one was advanced. Clearly, according to the 
credit report, in the month(s) leading up to loan one being approved, Mr S was having 
financial difficulties to the extent that he couldnt maintain his contracted payments on two 
accounts. 
I can see the mortgage account was significantly in arrears and at the point the loan was 
approved and was showing as 5 which means that it was at least five months in arrears. I 
would agree with MoneyBoat that the mortgage account had been in arrears for some time. 
And I would also agree with MoneyBoat that Mr S was making some repayments towards 
these arrears. 
However, the contracted monthly payment for this mortgage  according to the credit report 
was due to be £615 per month but Mr S wasnt making this payment. Indeed, the month 
before the loan was approved, he paid £542 and the month before that he paid £537.  
Overall, I do think the fact that Mr Ss mortgage was in arrears, and he still wasnt paying the 
contractual amount due ought to have led MoneyBoat to have conclude that Mr S was 
already having financial difficulties to the extent that he was in arrears with his mortgage  
which is a priority debt and still wasnt making the contracted payment he was due to pay to 
keep on top of the payments.  And Mr S had also recently shown that he had struggled to 
pay two other accounts as well - because these two credit card accounts had defaulted. 
It is of course possible, that MoneyBoat now feels it ought to have done further checks at the 
time, but Im satisfied given the arrears on the priority debt and the recent defaults  which 
further demonstrates that Mr S was having difficulties maintaining his repayments that it 
ought to have taken the decision not just to lend loan one, but also all subsequent loans. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ss complaint about loans 1  5. 
Loan 6
MoneyBoat carried out the same sort of check before this loan was approved as it had done 
for the previous loans. Those check showed that Mr S had around £778 per month in disposable income. But it is worth saying here that there had been some fluctuation in the 
expenditure information Mr S had recently been providing  for example, he declared no 
transport costs for loan 5, yet he declared £70 for loan six. His other commitments were 
now £110 per month more than his previous loan. 
So, in addition to looking at the checks that MoneyBoat did, Ive also looked at the overall 
pattern of MoneyBoat lending history with Mr S, with a view to seeing if there was a point at 
which MoneyBoat should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so MoneyBoat should have realised that it shouldnt have provided 
any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point MoneyBoat ought to have realised Mr S was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr S had taken out his sixth loan in 21 months. So MoneyBoat 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr S was having to borrow further 
to cover a long-term short fall in his living costs. 
From his first loan, Mr S was generally provided with a new loan fairly quickly after a 
previous loan was repaid, for example, there is only a four-day gap between loans 
one and two. To me, this is a sign that Mr S was using these loans to fill a long-term 
gap in his income rather than as a short-term need.  
Over the course of the lending relationship, Mr Ss monthly commitment to 
MoneyBoat remained broadly similar which demonstrates to me that Mr S was 
merely servicing the debt with MoneyBoat rather than making headway into what was 
owed. 
Mr S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed MoneyBoat. Loan 6 was 
taken out 21 months after Mr Ss first loan and was to be repaid over a similar term. 
His final loan was also for the same amount as his first. Mr S had paid large amounts 
of interest to, in effect, service a debt to MoneyBoat over an extended period.
I think that Mr S lost out when MoneyBoat provided loan 6 because:
the loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr S borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Ss ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
Overall, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint about all of his loans and Ive outlined below what 
MoneyBoat needs to do in order to put things right.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent to Mr S, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there 
are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr S may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat shouldnt have lent to Mr S. 
A. MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything MoneyBoat has already refunded.
B. MoneyBoat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr S which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. MoneyBoat should pay Mr S the total of A plus B.
D. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in 
relation to loans 1 - 5. The overall pattern of Mr Ss borrowing for loan 6 means any 
information recorded about it is adverse, so MoneyBoat should remove the loan 
entirely from Mr Ss credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint about all of his loans. 
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right as 
directed above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman