DRN-3673745
The complaint
The estate of Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund payments that 
had been disputed by him.
What happened
Mr C had raised a complaint with Nationwide before he passed away. This related to three 
payments to an online gambling merchant which totalled £800. He told Nationwide that he 
didnt authorise these and wasnt getting a response from the merchant.
Nationwide said it wouldnt be refunding the money. The merchant told it that the payments 
were made to an online account in Mr Cs name which had been open since 2019. Mr C had 
used this genuine account with the merchant. Nationwide also didnt think this likely 
behaviour of a fraudster as any winnings would be credited back to the gambling account.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr C had a genuine account 
with the merchant with his correct details. And these payments had been made to this 
account. There was no explanation of how someone unknown to him could have accessed 
this account. The payments in dispute were processed as follows: £300 on 28 April 2021; 
£200 on 5 May 2021; and £300 on 6 May 2021. But Mr C had accepted he made genuine 
payments from March to May 2021 of similar amounts. And he wasnt disputing those which 
was inconsistent with there having been fraud using his details. She considered that he had 
authorised all the payments.
Mr C had written to this service to say he didnt agree. He said he had tried to contact the 
merchant numerous times but not had any clarification. And he wanted this service to look 
into the way these payments were authorised. The complaint is now brought by his estate. 
And the representatives of the estate want to pursue this complaint and said that theyd 
asked for information from Nationwide about the account. No further comments have been 
provided to this service after the complaint was referred for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated say with card details. And if they werent authorised    
Mr C wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of how these payments were made?
- Were the payments on the account authorised?
The payments were made with Mr Cs card details online. And Im satisfied were 
authenticated. The issue is whether he authorised them.
Ive listened to calls Mr C made to Nationwide in May 2021 to report what happened. Hed 
seen the payments on his account and thought that there were too many. He said he limited 
himself to about £300 spending a month through the merchant. And as was shown 
happened here said would never have made two payments in a day and payments so close 
together. On 5 May 2021 I can see a genuine payment for £300 processed at 12:19pm and 
the other that Mr C didnt recognise at 5.01pm. I note to avoid any confusion that these were 
shown on Mr Cs statement as actually being debited to the account the following day. Mr C 
disputed some of the payments as our adjudicator had set out above.
Its accepted that Mr C had an account with the merchant and had used it before. I can see 
entries on an earlier statement from November 2020. Between March and May 2021 there 
was a total of £2,200 paid and of that £800 was disputed. The merchant was contacted by 
Nationwide as Id expect and confirmed the payments had gone to a genuine account with 
Mr Cs details and didnt see anything of concern. There is no explanation about how and 
why an unknown third party would be able to access that account and make payments. And 
a fraudster in possession of Mr Cs details would likely look to access money rather than say 
gamble. 
I appreciate that there was an accelerated pattern of gambling spend at that time. I can 
understand why the estate of Mr C wanted to pursue this as Mr C had been certain he hadnt 
made these payments himself. But Im afraid I dont have a reasonable basis to find it most 
likely that the payments werent authorised for the reasons Ive given. So, I wont be asking 
Nationwide to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman