DRN-2351363
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank Plcs IVR system gives him inaccurate information about 
his account.  
What happened
Mr G relies on telephone banking to manage his account. He uses the banks IVR system to 
find out his account balance and keep track of any payments that have debited his account 
(or are due to).
Mr G believes the system gives him false information because when he calls on a given 
date, direct debits that are due to leave his account (or have already been claimed) arent 
listed in his pending or cleared transactions. He says this means he doesnt get accurate 
information about his balance and the only way to resolve the issue is, if he speaks to a 
member of staff on the telephone banking line or reviews the information the following day 
(once the direct debit has left the account). 
Mr G feels the system is inconvenient and inherently unfair for people that cant use internet 
banking or mobile apps and need to rely on the IVR system instead. He says this can also 
result in difficulty where a direct debit is claimed (or is going to be claimed) and shouldnt be, 
for example, due to the amount, date or cancellation. 
Mr G raised a complaint about the IVR system. He added that staff werent adequately 
equipped to deal with the issues about it. He said he wanted Lloyds to either include direct 
debit information in the automated information he gets or place a message to say that the 
information provided doesnt take account of these.
Lloyds didnt dispute direct debits werent included but it didnt consider this was a fault or 
something that it needed to rectify. It accepted there were some shortcomings in the 
customer service Mr G had been given when he contacted it about this and paid him £50 for 
any trouble and upset caused. 
Mr G wasnt satisfied with the response, so he referred the complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into what happened but she didnt think Lloyds needed to do 
anything.  In summary she said:
 
- She recognised direct debits werent included in the pending transactions 
information. But she didnt think the way the IVR system operated resulted in 
unfairness.
- If the IVR system couldnt do something, Mr G could speak with the telephone 
banking.
- Overall, she considered the system allowed Mr G to get the information he needed. 
- Lloyds had paid £50 for poor customer service  she thought this was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr G didnt agree. He felt the investigator had misunderstood things and the difficulties this 
caused him. He said the IVR system precluded him from challenging any wrong payments 
that were due to be taken. And if the transactions didnt include his direct debits, he couldnt 
see how he was getting accurate account information. The investigator considered these 
points but didnt change her view. 
So, the matter has come to me to review for a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr G has made a number of detailed points, which I have read and considered. I 
hope the fact that I do not respond in a similar detail here will not be taken as a discourtesy. 
As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it is not necessary for me to respond 
to every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue. Having done so, Im not 
going to require Lloyds to take any action. I realise Mr G will be disappointed, so Ill explain 
why. 
Lloyds provides an IVR service to its customers. Its intended to provide a snap shot of 
movements on the account. Lloyds accepts its IVR system doesnt include a list of direct 
debits due to be paid or have been paid (on the given day) - it hasnt suggested otherwise. I 
think its key that Mr G is aware of this position (if he wasnt before) because it means he can 
factor this in when getting his account information. Mr G also has the option to speak with a 
member of staff over the phone. I appreciate this may take a little longer and he may need to 
wait for his call to be answered, but I dont think its unfair or reasonable as it gives him an 
avenue to get any additional information he needs. 
Ive noted Mr Gs point that direct debit payments can be taken on different dates and for 
different amounts and when they may have been cancelled. So, payments arent static  
they can result in monthly changes.  He wants to be able to monitor this so he can intervene 
promptly if he needs to. But organisations participating in the direct debit scheme are usually 
required to pre-notify customers if there is a change to the amount, date or frequency of a 
payment. Thats why on the rare occasion a payment error occurs, the Direct Debit 
Guarantee provides protection. So, while I understand Mr G would like Lloyds to include 
details of his direct debits on the IVR system or include a warning, I dont think this is 
causing him material distress and inconvenience or resulting in an unfair outcome. 
Finally, I can see that Mr G raised concerns about staff being inadequately trained to deal 
with issues arising from the IVR system. Ive thought about this, but Im of the view that the 
£50 payment and apology was reasonable - it recognised any inconvenience that may have 
been caused and was an appropriate way to resolve this aspect of the complaint. So, it 
follows that I wont be requiring Lloyds to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman