The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 1996. Mr P says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him the 
PPI.
What happened
Mr P said he didnt know about PPI and said it was added to his credit card account without 
his knowledge. He completed the form in good faith. Our adjudicator thought the complaint 
should be rejected. Mr P disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to 
be looked at again.
Mr P  through his representative  added he only ticked the box as a precaution for 
unforeseen circumstances for himself and his wife; he didnt know Barclays was making a 
profit from the PPI; his wifes complaint was successful, so he says he is being treated 
differently.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr P didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose
to take it out by ticking the Yes box on the application form as a precaution for
unforeseen circumstances. By signing the form, he consented to have the PPI
added to his account  although I can understand why he cant remember this.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P so it didnt have to check if it was right for
him. But it did have to make sure Mr P got the information he needed to decide if it
was right for him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type
of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like
he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would
have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was
affordable and would have been of some benefit because a successful PPI claim
could have lasted longer than his sick pay and his savings. So I dont think better
information about the PPI would have put him off from taking out the cover.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
DRN-1157605But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr P,
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said - including what he said about the hidden 
commission and profit share and about being treated differently. However, Barclays has 
already agreed it was unfair to hide the commission, and it had made an offer which I have 
already decided is fair. And each consumers case is decided on its own merits, which 
means a business can reach a different outcome on each consumers complaint because it's 
likely the facts differ in some way. So these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman