DRN-3685619
The complaint
A company Ill call R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) blocked and closed its 
account, without explaining why. To put things right, R wants Lloyds to pay compensation.
R is represented by its director, Mr B.
What happened
On 6 January 2021, Lloyds blocked Rs account while it carried out a review. When Mr B 
called to find out what was happening, he was told there was a processing delay on his 
account and that it would be removed in 3 to 5 days. But that proved to be incorrect and the 
block remained in place.
Mr B complained, but Lloyds didnt release the block. It issued its final response to Rs 
complaint on 25 January 2021. It confirmed the account was experiencing a processing 
delay and said there were no timescales for when it would end. It didnt explain what 
processing delay meant or why Mr B couldnt access Rs account, and it simply stated that 
Mr B wouldnt be able to make ingoing or outgoing payments until the processing delay had 
been resolved.
Mr B brought Rs complaint to our service, saying Rs account balance was approximately 
£750,000 and that the block was causing his business problems as he couldnt pay Rs bills. 
He later instructed solicitors who set out Rs claim for losses of £112,268.
Lloyds unrestricted the account on 17 February 2021. And on 2 March 2021, it issued a 
letter giving R notice of its intention to close Rs account which it eventually did on 28 May 
2021. The account remained unrestricted during the notice period.
Our investigator looked at the complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She was satisfied Lloyds 
was entitled to block and close Rs account, and that it was acting in accordance with its 
legal and regulatory obligations when it did so. She recognised Mr B would have been 
frustrated when it transpired he had been given incorrect information about the timeframes, 
but she said Mr B would still have been in the same position, if Lloyds had given him the 
correct information when he asked i.e. that Lloyds could not give a timeframe.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators findings, so the complaint came to me to issue a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review. 
So, in order to make an award in favour of R, I would need to be satisfied that Lloyds acted 
unfairly or took actions it wasnt entitled to take. And, having looked at the evidence both 
parties have provided, Im satisfied Lloyds acted in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations when it blocked Rs account. And that it was entitled to do so under the account 
terms and conditions that governed the relationship between Lloyds and R.
Theres no obligation on Lloyds to disclose the reason for its block to R, but Ive reviewed the 
evidence Lloyds has provided our service in order to reach my outcome. 
Lloyds has demonstrated that it had grounds to block Rs account in order to carry out a 
review of the account activity. And Im satisfied it was proportionate to block incoming and 
outgoing payments during the review, in order for Lloyds to comply with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. 
I recognise the block will have caused disruption to Rs business, and that it will be 
frustrating not to know why Lloyds blocked Rs account. But I hope Mr B can take comfort 
from the fact I have independently reviewed Lloyds actions. And because Lloyds wasnt 
obliged to disclose information about the block and review to Mr B, Im not persuaded R 
suffered any harm by Lloyds telling Mr B the review would only take 3 to 5 days.
Account closure
The terms and conditions of the contract that governs the relationship between R and Lloyds 
allows Lloyds to end its relationship with R by giving two months notice. And theres no 
obligation for Lloyds to disclose the reason for its decision. Lloyds gave R the required notice 
and R still had access to the account during the notice period, so Im satisfied it had the 
benefit of the contractual notice period. And, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im also 
satisfied Lloyds didnt treat R unfairly by closing its account in the manner it did.
Because Im not persuaded Lloyds treated R unfairly, it follows that I dont uphold this 
complaint and that I wont ask Lloyds to pay R compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman