DRN-3028854
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 2003. Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and 
Mrs B circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments 
theyd previously made.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered 
all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what 
is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time.
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I havent set out that 
detailed information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in 
deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my 
reasons for this conclusion below:
I think Santander made it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI 
and they chose to take it out. Ill explain why.
The PPI was arranged during a meeting when Mr and Mrs B were arranging their 
mortgage. Santander isnt able to provide any paperwork from the time of sale - this is 
unfortunate, but unsurprising for a sale that took place so long ago. Santander has 
provided sample documentation from the time of sale which it says is similar, if not the 
same as the paperwork Mr and Mrs B wouldve had to complete. So, Ive considered Mr 
and Mrs Bs comments alongside this paperwork, as well as what we know in general 
about how PPI was sold at this time.
The sample paperwork indicates that Mr and Mrs B wouldve had to provide their details 
and there is a separate section for Paymentcare. Looking at the form I wouldve expected 
a discussion with the advisor to involve a decision about the level of cover and to set up 
the policy. In Mr and Mrs Bs case it was decided the policy would cover them both to 
different levels. Santander has also provided guidance notes that wouldve been used by 
the adviser at the time and this also suggests there wouldve been a detailed discussion 
about their needs and the cover on offer.
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs B knew the policy 
was optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check that the PPI 
was right for them. Weve requested further details about Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time, but we havent received them. Looking at the 
information we do have about their circumstances at the time, it seems the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr and Mrs B were eligible for 
the cover and based on the information we have they didnt have any other means, 
beyond statutory sick pay, to meet the repayments so they seem to have had a 
need for cover.
I can also see that Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was a significant and long-term financial 
commitment, which was secured on their home. The effects of not keeping up with the 
repayments couldve been serious for them. I think having the security that part of the 
repayments wouldve been made if either of them was unable to work or unwell wouldve 
been important to them. Overall it seems to me the PPI wouldve been of use if either Mr 
and Mrs B were unable to work.
There was nothing about Mr and Mrs Bs employment or occupation which would 
have made it difficult for them to claim. They also havent told us about any pre-
existing medical conditions that could affect their ability to claim. There were also no 
additional restrictions on cover for mental health and back problems.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs 
B as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were 
buying from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it 
seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of 
this I dont think Mr and Mrs B would have declined the cover had Santander done 
anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs B would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because 
of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Santander should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific 
facts and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to 
all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Bs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above 
I dont uphold this complaint.
This means Santander doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
Chandni Green
 
Ombudsman