DRN-1705675
The complaint
Miss M & Mr M complain TSB Bank plc trading as Whistletree (TSB) refused to remove Miss 
M from a loan account held in their joint names.
What happened
Miss M & Mr M took out a mortgage and an unsecured loan in 2007 with a building society 
which was subsequently taken over by TSB. Miss M says some years following her divorce 
she approached TSB in 2017 to discuss her removal from the unsecured loan and was told 
this was possible if she repaid the secured loan with them. Miss M & Mr M says based on 
this, they made an agreement between themselves to reduce the borrowing to make it 
possible for Miss M to obtain a mortgage elsewhere and agreed Mr M would be responsible 
for the unsecured loan. In July 2019 Miss M contacted TSB to arrange for her name to be 
removed and Sgt M needed to contact them to arrange this, however, when this was 
requested, they were told it wasnt possible to remove her from the loan account. 
Miss M & Mr M want TSB to honour what they originally said and allow Miss M to have her 
name removed from the loan account.
TSB have accepted they gave incorrect information about the process to remove Miss Ms 
name, but they had also told Miss M on another occasion in 2018 she was told she was 
unable to do this. TSB says they have offered £100 by way of compensation for the incorrect 
information provided to Miss M. 
Miss M & Mr M werent happy with TSBs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
felt that while TSB gave misleading information about the removal of Miss M from the loan, 
this would need formal approval of a loan application and relevant checks on Mr M. The 
investigator felt the £100 offered by way of an apology for the incorrect information provided 
was fair and reasonable. 
Miss M & Mr M werent happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision .
I can understand that it must have been upsetting for Miss M & Mr M to be told the 
unsecured loan couldnt be transferred into Mr Ms sole name, having been told that it could, 
almost two years earlier. When looking at this complaint I have considered if TSB had given 
agreement to remove Miss M from the joint loan account and acted fairly when this was later 
refused. 
What happened here is following their divorce, Miss M & Mr M made a legal agreement, 
between themselves, to re-mortgage the secured loan in Miss Ms name and transfer the 
unsecured loan into Mr Ms name. Its worth saying at this stage, it was a personal 
arrangement and not something TSB or any bank need to agree to. 
That said, in 2017 Miss M approached TSB to discuss the removal of her name from the 
unsecured loan and re-mortgage the secured loan in her sole name. TSB dont dispute the 
call took place and their agent told Miss M it was possible, and Mr M would need to contact 
them to discuss this, as Miss M & Mr M suggest. TSB have also said in their final response 
letter to Miss M a further telephone call was made in Jan 2018, when she was informed this 
wasnt possible but could have her name removed from both loan accounts subject to a 
Change of Party (COP) approval. In July 2019 I can see Miss M telephoned TSB and was 
then told Mr M would need to discuss the COP with them -when he did, he was then told the 
transfer of the unsecured loan into his sole name wasnt possible. 
I have been provided with transcripts of the phone calls which support the comments made 
by both parties and I am satisfied there was misleading information given to Miss M 
particularly in her telephone call back October 2017. What is important here, is even if an 
indication a process exists to remove someone from an existing joint and several loan 
agreements, that is not the same as having a formal agreement to do so. In these 
circumstances I would have expected to see a formal application to have been made and 
approved  before the removal of a party for the joint liability of the loan. I cant see any 
application was formally made to TSB, more than a telephone enquiry to understand what 
was needed. Its worth saying it was almost two years from the original call Miss M made 
before she approached TSB to formalise the removal of her name from the loan and in the 
meantime, she had refinanced her mortgage elsewhere. So, even if a formal agreement had 
been made previously, which it hadnt here, it would be reasonable to expect Miss M to have 
checked this had been formally approved in writing before taking the steps she did. 
When agreeing to change the parties to a loan agreement, all banks, including TSB would 
need to assess affordability and undertake appropriate credit checks before this could be 
approved, in the same way Miss M would have gone through when she applied for the 
mortgage in her sole name. I think TSB could have made this clearer to Miss M & Mr M both 
before and after the request was declined, but it doesnt detract from the fact there wasnt a 
formal agreement in place to remove her from the joint unsecured loan, even if Miss M 
believed there was. 
I do agree with the investigator that TSB should pay the £100 they have offered Miss M by 
way of an apology for not being clearer on how the process works. TSB could have been 
clearer in what was needed to actually remove a party from the joint loan account rather than 
quoting their internal rules and processes. For example, they should have explained the loan 
would need to be refinanced elsewhere by Mr M, either within the TSB group or from an 
outside lender subject to a full credit assessment. That said, I feel this is a matter of 
providing poor customer service rather than having formally approved the removal of her 
name from the joint loan account and then reneging on that. As a result, the £100 offered is 
a fair and reasonable sum by way of trouble and upset caused. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman