DRN-4220516
The complaint
Mr G complains about how Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited has handled
claims on his mechanical breakdown insurance policy for his cars gearbox and torque
converter.
What happened
Mr Gs car was vibrating when driving so he took it to a garage and contacted Red Sands.
The garage said the torque converter had mechanically failed and so needed replacing. Red
Sands accepted the claim but said it would only pay 60% towards the repair. It said this was
because the policy didnt cover electrical faults with the torque converter and as it wasnt
clear if it was a mechanical fault or electrical it wouldnt pay the full cost. Red Sands also
said due to the age and mileage of Mr Gs car it wouldnt pay more than 60% of the repair
cost.
Soon after, Mr G said his car made a loud bang while driving and warning lights appeared on
the dashboard. Mr G then claimed for this with Red Sands as hed been told by the garage it
needed a new gearbox. The garage diagnosed a fault with the gearbox and said it needed
replacing. Red Sands reviewed the claim and said the gearbox would need to be taken apart
to understand exactly what had failed. Mr G didnt agree to this. He said the gearbox is a
sealed unit and not a part the garage would take apart. He also said the cost to take the
gearbox apart would be similar to that for replacing it. As Mr G wasnt happy with how Red
Sands was dealing with his claims he complained. He said the gearbox had mechanically
failed and so should be covered; he also said the full cost of the torque converter should be
covered as well.
Red Sands reviewed the complaints and issued two final responses. One final response for
the torque converter complaint and one for the gear box complaint. For the gearbox claim,
Red Sands said it had been unable to determine whether the exact cause of the fault was
mechanical and therefore didnt agree it had done anything wrong by asking for the gearbox
to be stripped. For the torque converter claim, Red Sands said, as it had been unable to
determine the exact cause of the fault, it had only authorised 60% of the claim for the parts
needed to repair the torque converter. Red Sands agreed to pay £2,148.28 for the torque
converter.
Unhappy with Red Sands response, Mr G referred his complaint here. He said hed paid
£2,986.42 to repair the torque converter and so Red Sands should pay the full amount. He
also said it was unreasonable to ask for the gearbox to be stripped any further as three
garages had said the fault was mechanical and so it should be covered.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 August 2023 where I said:
The terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy with Red Sands say it covers his car for the
mechanical breakdown of covered parts. It defines mechanical breakdown as:
the failure of a mechanical or electrical component, causing a sudden 
stoppage of its function, for a reason other than wear and tear, 
deterioration or negligence.
The policy covers the gearbox and torque converter but excludes electrical components of
both parts. Ill address the torque converter claim first. For the torque converter, Red Sands
has said its likely a mechanical failure due to the components of the part. But said, due to
the age and mileage, its only going to pay for 60% of the parts. Ive noted the policy
excludes cover for parts which have failed due to wear and tear. For a part to be excluded
due to wear and tear I think it is fair and reasonable that it would need to have reached the
end of its normal working life for it to be fair for it to not be covered.
In this case there isnt evidence the torque converter has reached the end of its normal
working life. Red Sands also hasnt shown where in the policy it will only pay for 60% of the
parts. And when considering Red Sands has accepted the claim, Im therefore not satisfied
Red Sands has acted fairly by only paying 60%. To put things right, Red Sands should
therefore pay the additional 40%. It should also add 8% simple interest to the amount it pays
to compensate Mr G for not having the money.
Ive also looked at the claim for the gearbox and can see the garage who has inspected Mr
Gs car has said:
no electronic faults on the Gearbox. It also says you could hear the 
mechanical judder under acceleration which is caused by sudden 
mechanical fault, and this causes the vehicle to go into Safe/Limp mode
I understand Red Sands would like the gearbox dismantled to confirm exactly what the
cause of the fault is. However, in this particular case, Im satisfied Mr G has had the fault
diagnosed, the gearbox, and also shown its most likely failed due to mechanical failure. It
therefore follows that Im not persuaded Red Sands has acted fairly and reasonably by not
covering the claim for Mr Gs gearbox.
Ive noted Red Sands said due to the age and mileage Its most likely the gearbox failed due
to wear and tear and provided generic comments from a garage which says gearboxes on
this manufacture of cars start having problems around 80,000 miles. I can see Mr Gs car
has covered more than 80,000 miles. However, just because some gearboxes from this
manufacturer have problems from that mileage, it doesnt mean thats whats happened to
Mr Gs, or that its failed due to wear and tear. And, as explained above, Im not persuaded
Red Sands has shown that its most likely this part has reached the end of its normal
working life. Im therefore not persuaded Red Sands can decline this claim for wear and tear
either.
So, to put things right, Red Sands needs to accept the claim for the gearbox and pay the
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. If Mr G has paid for the
repairs to his gearbox, then Red Sands will also need to add 8% simple interest per year to
what it pays to compensate him for not having the money.
Mr G responded and provided a receipt for £500 for a second-hand gearbox hed bought and 
had installed on his car to replace the failed one. He said Red Sands should also pay for this 
and for a new gear box to be installed, as per the policy terms and conditions. 
Red Sands responded and didnt accept my provisional decision. It said the torque converter 
would have had some wear and the terms say Mr G will need to make a contribution towards 
the replacement part if it improves the vehicle. Red Sands also said the gearbox is not a sealed unit and the repairing garage is not a 
gearbox specialist. It also said an electrical fault with a gearbox can cause a drop in oil which 
would cause a mechanical fault. Red Sands also said even if the fault was mechanical then 
the parts would be worn and not covered by the policy. It also said it wasnt clear what the 
fault with the gearbox was and given the cars mileage it would likely have had wear and 
tear. Red Sands also said the policy terms dont say a part needs to reach the end of its 
normal working life, and that as Mr Gs car had done 146,000 miles then its likely the 
gearbox had reached the end of its normal working life. 
Finally Red Sands said that the policy terms say Mr G has to pay for any diagnosis and 
dismantling to identify the fault and as this hasnt been done, on balance the outcome Red 
Sands reached it thought was fair. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill first address Red Sands response. I agree the terms of the policy say if the part to be 
replaced has some wear and it improves the general condition or value of the vehicle then 
Mr G will need to make a contribution. However, Im not persuaded this means its fair and 
reasonable for Red Sands to only pay 60% of the claim for the torque converter. I say this 
because the policy doesnt say how much Mr G would need to pay, Im also not satisfied 
Red Sands has shown the torque converter most like had wear. Its just said that its likely it 
had wear. Finally Red Sands also hasnt shown the replacement torque converter has 
improved the value either, Im therefore not persuaded this means its fair and reasonable 
Red Sands only pays 60% of the claim. I therefore dont intend to depart from the findings in 
my provisional decision on the torque converter. 
In regard to the gear box, Red Sands said its not a sealed unit. Mr G has disputed this and 
said it is a sealed unit. Neither party has provided anything from the manufacturer or 
specialist which shows that this specific gearbox is or isnt a sealed unit. Its therefore not 
clear if it is one which could be stripped and diagnosed further. I appreciate that Red Sands 
has said that an electrical failure could cause a mechanical failure to the gearbox, its not 
clear if that is the case though and Red Sands has pointed out that Mr G hasnt done the 
further diagnostics as required under the policy. However, without knowing if the gearbox is 
sealed or not, Im unable to say whether Red Sands has acted fairly by asking Mr G to do 
this.  
Red Sands has also said Mr Gs car has done 146,000 miles and therefore its most likely 
reached the end of its normal working life. While that is a possibility, along with it being a 
possibility that an electrical fault has occurred, there is also the possibility that it was a 
mechanical failure, and the gearbox hadnt reached the end of its normal working life. So, 
without anything to show otherwise, Im not persuaded its fair and reasonable for Red 
Sands to decline the claim for wear and tear. 
So as explained above, Im persuaded its most likely Mr Gs gearbox has suffered a 
mechanical failure. And while there is a debate about whether further diagnostics can be 
completed on the gearbox, I need to decide what a fair and reasonable outcome to the 
complaint is. Ive also noted Mr G paid £500 for a replacement gearbox, albeit a second 
hand one and that the terms of Mr Gs policy say that Red Sands can use exchanged or 
reconditioned parts to repair the car. Therefore, in this case I think the fair and reasonable 
outcome would be for Red Sands to pay Mr G the £500 he paid for the second-hand 
gearbox. Red Sands should also pay the associated costs for the gearbox to be fitted, in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It should also add 8% simple interest per year to what it pays to compensate Mr G for not having the money. Calculated from the 
date he paid for the gearbox and paid for the repair, until the date payment is made. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
1. pay 100% of Mr Gs claim for the torque converter. It also needs to add 8% simple
interest per year to the additional amount it pays for this, calculated from the date Mr
G paid for the torque converter repair until the date settlement is made.
2. pay Mr G the £500 he paid for the replacement gearbox. It should also pay the costs 
to replace the failed gearbox with the second-hand one, in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. As Mr G has paid for the gearbox repair already, 
8% simple interest per year should be added to what he paid, calculated from the 
date Mr G paid for the repair until the date settlement is made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman