DRN-3160739
The complaint
Mr L, through his representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly.   
What happened
Using information provided by Morses here is a brief table of the approved loans. 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Weekly 
Repayment
1 01/07/2016 07/10/2016 20 £200.00 £15.00
2 07/10/2016 23/05/2017 33 £300.00 £15.00
3 23/05/2017 03/11/2017 33 £300.00 £15.00
4 03/11/2017 06/07/2018 33 £500.00 £25.00
5 06/07/2018 14/12/2018 33 £500.00 £25.00
6 14/12/2018 01/11/2019 33 £700.00 £35.00
7 01/11/2019 Outstanding* 53 £1,000.00 £35.00
After Mr L had complained, Morses sent to him its final response letter (FRL) in which it said 
that it had not done enough checks for loans 5 to 7 and the writer of that FRL explained: 
My conclusions are as follows: 
As a responsible lender we should [sic] conducted further checks or gathered 
additional information at the time of your application and I have upheld the accounts 
highlighted above. 
It had highlighted loans 5 to 7 in its loan table set out in the FRL indicating: 
I have conducted a detailed review of your accounts and believe that we should 
have requested additional information and probed further into your individual 
circumstances before agreeing to provide you with the accounts highlighted in the 
table below.
One of our adjudicators reviewed the complaint and using the evidence it had received 
thought that Morses should also put things right for loan 4.
Morses responded with an unusual reply in which it said that it agreed with loan 7 and gave 
fresh calculations about that uphold, but it disagreed that loans 3 to 6 had been mis-sold. So, 
our adjudicator wrote again to explain his view further. Our adjudicator repeated that its FRL 
had conceded on loans 5 to 7 and so the only additional loan upheld by our adjudicator was 
loan 4. But Morses has asked for an ombudsman to issue a decision on the case. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early 
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mr L didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I have not reviewed those 
three loans. 
But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mr L had with Morses. So, I took those into 
account when considering the lending relationship.And I consider that the FRL conclusion to resolve Mr Ls complaint was emphatic and I set 
out the two paragraphs from that FRL in the what happened part of this decision to 
demonstrate Morses conclusions. In my view loans 5 to 7 were resolved at that point. And 
Morses has given no reason as to why it appears to have altered its resolution conclusion 
set out clearly in the FRL it wrote to Mr L. But for the avoidance of doubt I have reviewed all 
the loans from loan 4 onwards. 
I do note that Morses recent correspondence indicates that it does agree that loan 7 ought 
not to have been lent to Mr L. And so, I have included that in the putting things right section 
of this decision for completeness.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 4 to 7 because 
I dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending 
history with Mr L, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mr Ls case, I think that this point was reached by loan 4. I agree 
with the conclusions reached by our adjudicator and I say this because:
At this point he had been indebted to Morses for about 16 months  
Mr Ls first loan was for £200 and loan 4 was for £300. So, the amount Mr L was 
borrowing had increased as well as him being indebted to Morses for a significant 
time. 
At this point Morses ought to have known that Mr L was likely borrowing to meet an 
ongoing and increasing need. And this indicates his problems may have been 
worsening.  
So, because of these factors, Morses ought to have realised it was more likely than 
not Mr Ls indebtedness was unsustainable. 
From loan 4 onwards Mr L was provided with a new loan a very short time after he 
settled his previous loan  often on the same day and often he had refinanced part of 
that loan into the new one 
Mr L wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Morses. Loan 7 was 
taken out over three years after Mr Ls first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr L had 
paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr L lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ls indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended period.
the length of time over which Mr L borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 to 7 (of which I think that Morses has 
already conceded in relation to loans 5 to 7) and Morses should put things right. 
I understand that money is still owed on loan 7 and that is addressed in the next section.
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr L from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr L may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this lender which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable 
option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that 
was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr L in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr L would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So, 
it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has done 
wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mr L loans 4 to 7. If it has sold the outstanding debts Morses 
should buy these back if its able to do so and then take the following steps. If Morses is not 
able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr L towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything Morses has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr L  
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date he originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr L as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results in Mr L having made overpayments then Morses should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Morses should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus then 
the surplus should be paid to Mr L. 
However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with him. 
Morses shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Morses has already 
written-off.E) The overall pattern of Mr Ls borrowing for loans 4 to 7 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so Morses should remove these loans entirely from his credit file. 
Morses does not have to remove loan 7 from Mr Ls credit file until these have been repaid, 
but Morses should still remove any adverse payment information recorded about these 
loans.
If Morses intends to use the refund to reduce an amount Mr L owes, it must do this after tax. 
Morses cannot carry out a set-off unless it owns the debt. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint in part and I direct that Morses Club PLC 
should do as I have outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman