DRN-3201719
The complaint
Mr K complains about the customer service received from National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) when he asked to withdraw money from his account. 
What happened
Mr K says he attended a NatWest branch and asked to withdraw £1,100 which he says he 
wanted in crisp notes. Mr K says the branch didnt give him this so he went to another 
NatWest branch and made the same request. Mr K says the branch manager told him to go 
to the Bank of England if he wanted crisp notes and tried to walk away with Mr Ks passport. 
Mr K says he asked for his passport back and cancelled the transaction, Mr K says the 
branch manager then became aggressive and threatening so he sought assistance from 
another staff member. Mr K says the branch manager continued to be aggressive and 
threatening towards him so he went back to the first branch. Mr K says the branch manager 
there asked if hed been to the other branch and he then called the police. Mr K says the 
police then attended and issued him with a Community Resolution Disposal Order (CRDO) 
for disorderly behaviour. Mr K was then able to get the money from another branch. Mr K 
complained to NatWest about the customer service hed received from three NatWest 
branches. Mr K said staff were aggressive and offensive and he felt there was an element of 
racism involved. 
NatWest responded and explained they had spoken with staff from all three branches to get 
their recollection of events. NatWest said their version of events differed to what Mr K said 
happened. NatWest said they understand Mr K wanted clean money when he withdrew 
funds, however they couldnt guarantee this. They said the only way to get clean money 
would be to contact the Bank of England. NatWest said Mr K was aggressive towards staff 
members so the police were called. NatWest explained, this is part of their process if any 
staff member feels threatened by a customers behaviour. They said, this is to safeguard 
them and customers using the branch. 
In relation to Mr Ks concern about there being racism involved, NatWest apologised if Mr K 
felt this was the case, but they confirmed there was no racial discrimination involved in any 
of the actions completed by their staff. They said, staff undergo several training sessions so 
no discrimination wouldve taken place. NatWest said, they felt Mr K had behaved in a way 
they deem inappropriate and they dont tolerate unacceptable behaviour from any customer. 
So, they would continue to review Mr Ks future banking relationship with them and continue 
to support him. NatWest explained, if however the unacceptable behaviour continued, then 
they may need to take appropriate action regarding his banking arrangements.    
Our investigator looked into things for Mr K. During the investigation, NatWest made an offer 
of £150 compensation to Mr K. Our investigator thought the compensation offered was 
reasonable and wouldnt be asking them to do anything further. Mr K disagreed so the 
matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided NatWests offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand 
Mr K will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.   
The first visit to branch V
NatWest say Mr K first visited branch V to withdraw £1,100 but wanted this in £50 notes. 
NatWest say this transaction was completed but Mr K threw the money back at the cashier 
saying it wasnt clean money and asked for the same amount but in £20 notes. NatWest say 
Mr K wasnt happy with these notes as well and wanted new notes. NatWest say the cashier 
tried to explain the banks processes and to try an ATM, but Mr K became aggressive. 
NatWest say Mr K then said he would go to another branch. 
I can see Mr K disputes this version of events and says he withdrew £1,100 in £50 notes but 
as the notes werent crisp clean he deposited the money back into his account with the same 
cashier and then asked for the same amount in £20 notes. Mr K says these werent crisp 
clean either so he said he would try another local branch to see if he could get clean notes.  
The first point Ill make is that I dont think its unreasonable for Mr K to want fresh notes and 
there might well have been a specific purpose for which he required crisp and clean notes. 
Its clear Mr K felt NatWest werent able to provide this, so he decided to visit another 
branch. I havent been provided with any CCTV footage to show how Mr K returned the 
money to the cashier but, given that it was Mr Ks money, I dont believe he wouldve thrown 
the money in an aggressive manner and risk the notes potentially scattering around. That 
said, I dont think its unreasonable for NatWest not to have had fresh new notes in branch. 
There are economical reasons why new notes cant be printed continuously so banks wont 
receive a constant supply of new notes. In these circumstances, banks have to reuse cash 
other customers have provided. 
The visit to branch W
NatWest say Mr K then visited branch W and requested to withdraw £1,100 and was 
receiving assistance from a staff member. As Mr K had already withdrawn £1,100 from a 
different branch the same day, further security checks applied. NatWest say the staff 
member asked Mr K further security questions to understand why Mr K had done a 
withdrawal followed by an immediate deposit at branch V. NatWest say Mr K told the staff 
member the notes were dirty and of poor quality so he wanted to give them back. Mr K then 
provided his passport to verify his identity and the branch manager came over to authorise 
the payment and ask some further questions. NatWest say the branch manager explained 
the transaction was unusual and out of character for Mr K and his account so he wanted to 
ensure Mr K wasnt the victim of fraud. NatWest say Mr K refused to answer any questions. 
NatWest say Mr K started to raise his voice and demand the money, which he said needed 
to be clean and crisp. NatWest say the branch manager explained the notes they provide 
are through the teller recycling system which means theyre the ones received from other 
customers  so they have no control over the notes which come out. NatWest say the 
branch manager explained Mr K could also use the ATM as they are filled with better notes. 
NatWest say Mr K felt it should be NatWests responsibility to give out clean notes. NatWest 
say the branch manager then suggested using a debit card instead. NatWest say the branch 
manager took Mr Ks passport to carry out further checks but Mr K followed him to the 
security pass doors and demanded his passport back. NatWest explain, Mr K was raising his voice so the branch manager returned his passport and refused to complete the withdrawal. 
NatWest say Mr K then started verbally abusing the branch manager and swearing at him. 
They say Mr K also got close to the branch managers face. NatWest explain Mr K was then 
asked to leave the branch otherwise he would be removed by the police. NatWest say the 
branch manager then showed Mr K the door but he continued to swear and insult members 
of the branch managers family and saying he would come back for him.   
Mr K says the branch manager asked him too many questions and told him to go to Bank of 
England for fresh notes. Mr K says the branch manager wanted to take his passport to the 
back office. Mr K says he told the branch manager he was being disrespectful and was 
stressing him out. Mr K says he asked the branch manager to return his passport and did 
swear at him. Mr K says the branch manager asked him to leave the branch and Mr K told 
him to shut up. Mr K says the branch manager was threatening and aggressive which 
made him scared so he approached another staff member to let them know he was being 
rude. Mr K says, as the branch manager followed him out of the bank, he made a remark 
about a member of the branch managers family. Mr K says the branch manager then 
followed him outside the branch and said see you later.     
Mr K has provided a copy of a voice recording which starts with Mr K saying he doesnt have 
a problem with any security checks but hes being asked too many questions. It appears at 
this point the branch manager has Mr Ks passport as Mr K asks for this back and asks them 
to cancel the transaction. Mr K runs through the security questions he was asked and 
confirms he has answered them and also provided his signature so he doesnt understand 
why the branch manager needs to carry out further checks using his passport. Mr K raises a 
concern about being told to go to the Bank of England. Mr K does swear at the branch 
manager repeatedly  something he accepts.   
I can understand why Mr K got frustrated at what he feels was too many questions even 
after hed explained the reason why hed deposited the £1,100 back into his account at 
branch V. But I dont think it was unreasonable for the branch manager to ask for further 
details given their concern that this withdrawal wasnt in line with Mr Ks usual account 
transactions. Ive seen Mr Ks bank statements and I agree this doesnt appear to follow a 
pattern of withdrawals of similar amounts so I can understand why the branch manager felt 
he needed to raise further questions. I dont think theres anything inherently wrong with staff 
at a bank asking further questions to a customer just to provide reassurance that the 
customer isnt a victim of a scam or fraud. While I acknowledge this might come across as 
frustrating to a customer, its important to note that the banks objective here is to protect 
their customer.
Its not clear what the context of the conversation was when the branch manager told Mr K 
he could go to the Bank of England to get fresh notes. I understand the Bank of England do 
offer a service where they may be able to exchange accidentally torn or damaged 
banknotes. But, I dont think that service includes exchanging used banknotes for new 
banknotes. It appears that was the case here with Mr K not wanting NatWest to issue him 
with banknotes which werent new and clean. 
So, that being the case, I dont think Mr K shouldve been signposted to the Bank of England 
as its unlikely their exchange process would cover Mr Ks reasons for wanting new 
banknotes. 
Branch W didnt carry out Mr Ks instructions, but I dont think theyve acted unreasonably in 
that respect. NatWest have provided system notes which show that the branch manager 
required Mr Ks passport to carry out further checks as he refused to explain what the 
transaction was for. Mr K then asks for his passport back and tells the branch manager to 
cancel his transaction  and this is supported by the voice recording. Its clear here, from 
both parties testimony and the voice recording, that the situation did become heated. Mr K accepts he did swear at the branch manager and this is supported by the voice recording. 
So, in view of this, I dont think it was unreasonable for the branch manager to ask Mr K to 
leave the branch.   
The second visit to branch V
NatWest say Mr K then returned to branch V and a member of staff was checking the CCTV 
and saw an altercation between Mr K and another member of staff. NatWest say the branch 
manager then came out and spoke with Mr K about what they could do but Mr K became 
aggressive and, despite being warned they would call the police, Mr K continued being 
aggressive. NatWest say the branch manager went to call the police but Mr K followed him 
and started to push the door of the interview room. The police were then called. NatWest 
say, while in branch, Mr K wasnt adhering to social distancing rules. 
Mr K says when he returned to branch V, the cashier who served him during his first visit 
went over to another cashier and whispered something which led to the other cashier looking 
at Mr K. He says he approached them to ask why they were talking about him and they 
denied it. Mr K says the branch manager came out and asked how he could help. Mr K says 
he told the branch manager he wants fresh crisp notes and the branch manager explained 
notes arent printed in branch. Mr K says the branch manager asked if hed just been to 
branch W. Mr K says the branch manager told him they wouldnt be serving him and he 
would be calling the police. He said hed received a call from the branch manager at branch 
W to say Mr K had been abusive. Mr K says he tried to give his version of events but the 
branch manager was hostile towards him and wouldnt listen. Mr K says the branch manager 
then called the police and, as Mr K approached him, he went into a room and slammed the 
door in Mr Ks face.  
Ive listened to a voice recording provided by Mr K where hes trying to speak with the 
branch manager and asking why hes not listening to him. Its clear this situation also gets 
heated but the branch manager is already aware at this point about what happened at 
branch W. NatWest say its their process to call the police if any staff feel threatened. The 
voice recordings show abusive language was used while Mr K was at branch W and there 
were raised voices, so I cant say NatWest were unreasonable to call the police, particularly 
so if their staff felt threatened. 
Ive seen a copy of the CRDO which was issued to Mr K at branch V. The offence is 
described as disorderly behaviour and the circumstances are noted as Mr K is alleged to 
have acted in a disorderly manner towards bank staff at two branches. The CRDO contains 
an offender declaration which has been signed by Mr K and says I accept responsibility for 
the offence of disorderly behaviour. While I acknowledge Mr K says the police involvement 
caused him distress and damaged his reputation, its clear NatWest felt there was a need for 
the police to become involved. And, following their attendance, it was then up to the police 
how they chose to deal with the matter. 
The visit to branch A
    
NatWest say, Mr K then visited branch A to withdraw the funds and this transaction was 
completed for him. Mr K says the cashier walked off with his passport without his consent, so 
he asked for it to be returned which the cashier then gave back. Mr K says the branch 
manager then came and they gave Mr K clean notes. Mr K says he asked for privacy from 
another member of staff and the reply he got was What, privacy in open banking?      Its not clear what further privacy NatWest couldve provided here as Mr K was being served 
by a cashier as part of their counter service. I cant see this however had any impact on     
Mr Ks transaction as he was able to withdraw the amount he wanted. 
Discrimination 
I can see Mr K feels very strongly about how members of staff at the branches treated him. 
He says all the members of staff involved in his complaint are Asian, and he feels he 
wouldnt have been treated the way he was if he was also Asian. NatWest say no actions by 
their staff indicated any racial discrimination.  
I am sorry to hear about Mr Ks experience and wish to reassure him that I have carefully 
considered his comments. But, I havent found any evidence that Mr K was treated 
differently because of his race or religion. I think the actions of NatWests staff were driven 
by their processes rather than any discrimination. This includes their process to issue reused 
banknotes, carry out further checks to protect their customer and calling the police if staff 
feel threatened. 
Taking this all into account, I think the compensation of £150 offered by NatWest is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I will add this offer has been made by NatWest as a 
gesture of goodwill and in an attempt to resolve the complaint. 
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc have already made an offer to pay £150 compensation to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay £150 to Mr K, if they 
havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman