DRN-1643646
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a credit card payment 
protection (PPI) policy.  
What happened
Mrs H took out the PPI at the same time as applying for the credit card in a branch of 
Barclays in 2004. It covered Mrs H for accident, sickness and unemployment, as well as 
providing some life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs H says the PPI was added without her knowledge or consent. Ive looked at the 
application form Mrs H competed in 2004. There is a separate section for PPI with Yes and 
No boxes that could be ticked to either request or decline the policy. Mrs H has ticked the 
Yes box. She has also signed underneath to confirm that she wanted to buy PPI.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs Hs recollection of 
events has faded. I think that Mrs H would have known from the wording and layout of the 
form that the PPI was optional. It seems to me that she decided to buy it, knowing that she 
didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
Barclays advised Mrs H to buy the PPI. Therefore, in recommending the policy to her, it 
needed to ensure that it met her needs. And from what I know of Mrs Hs circumstances at 
the time, the policy was suitable for her.
Although Mrs H did at one time tell us she was self-employed, shes clarified that she 
became employed  doing the same job for the same company  around 2003/04. I can see 
from the application form that Mrs H has stated that she was employed. I consider the point 
of sale information to be the most reliable.
Mrs H has said she wouldnt have received any sick pay from her employer. And she had no 
other means, such as savings, to fall back on. So I consider that she had a need for the 
policy and could have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
The policy had a 14 day deferral period. Mrs H therefore says that the policy was unsuitable 
as, because she was living hand to mouth, she couldnt have made it through the first 14 
days. It seems odd to argue that because you have absolutely nothing  and therefore have more need than most for insurance  that PPI that could potentially cover your credit card 
repayments for 12 months, wasnt suitable because it didnt cover the first 14 days of any 
claim period. Mrs H would have received statutory sick pay, which would have provided her 
with some assistance during those early days. Overall, Im satisfied that having a policy with 
a 14 day deferral period was better than having no policy at all, in Mrs Hs circumstances. 
Im not persuaded that, if Mrs H had understood that the policy didnt pay out for the first 14 
days of any claim, that shed have decided not to buy it.
Its possible that Barclays didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical 
conditions. But Mrs H wasnt affected by any of those things. As I consider that she had an 
interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have 
caused her to change her mind.
This means that Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because: 
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about 
that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman