DRN-3902504
The complaint
Miss H complains Lloyds Bank PLC opened an account using her details and are holding her 
liable for a £50,000 loan, both of which she says she didnt apply for.   
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Around June 2020 an account was opened, and a £50,000 loan was taken out using 
Miss Hs details. Miss H says this wasnt her and would like Lloyds to: stop sending her 
account statements; close the account; and stop pursuing her for the loan. Lloyds 
investigated Miss Hs claim. Its decision was to decline it, as it was satisfied Miss H was 
likely involved in the applications. Miss H brought the matter to our service. Our Investigator 
looked into things and didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Miss H 
disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint.  
When the complaint was passed to me, I wrote to Miss H to explain, in reaching her 
conclusion, our Investigator had taken into account some considerations which fall outside 
our services jurisdiction  so I wouldnt be commenting on these. And for what I can 
consider I had reached the same outcome as the Investigator. I also shared with Miss H 
some further reasoning. Miss H remained unhappy. She didnt think the outcome was fair. 
But beyond stating that our Investigator had asked the wrong questions and saying 
everything has been misunderstood. She has not elaborated much further on this, other than 
reiterating that shed not received any correspondence about the loan before the debt 
recovery letter.
Ive issued a separate decision setting out which aspects of Miss Hs complaint we can  
and cant  look into. Now that the jurisdiction matter has been decided, Ill share below what 
I think about the aspects of Miss Hs complaint we do have the power to investigate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Hs testimony is that she didnt enter into the loan agreement. Lloyds believe she did 
and are holding her liable. My role is to decide if the conclusion Lloyds have reached, based 
on the information available to them, was fair and reasonable.
I wasnt present at the time the loan was taken, so I cant possibly know, nor is it for me to 
determine exactly what happened. And whilst a third party being responsible is one 
explanation. Another could be that the loan was taken out by Miss H, or by someone else 
but with her knowledge/agreement. I have to decide what I think is most likely to have 
happened, based on the evidence that is available to me.
Miss Hs case is mostly based on her testimony. I hope she can appreciate that it would not 
be reasonable, nor fair of me to uphold a complaint based largely and/or solely on her 
testimony if, on balance, the evidence provided by Lloyds suggests otherwise. 
Lloyds have evidenced that the details on the application were Miss Hs genuine details and 
matched the information they held about her through an account she holds with another 
bank within the same banking group. Correspondence was sent to her actual home address 
and her correct email address  yet she didnt report this till almost a year later. Miss H says 
she first learned of the loan was when she received a debt recovery letter. So for a third 
party to have been responsible they wouldve needed to have known a lot of her personal 
information, had access to Miss Hs post and possibly even her email account if the 
assertion is that they intercepted the post and emails which she was sent. Its difficult to 
understand how a third party could have obtained all this information, successfully 
intercepted all the post related to the loan for almost a year and acquired access to her email 
account to delete correspondence sent by Lloyds.
Miss H says she fell victim to another scam around the same time where shed shared her 
personal details  name, address, date of birth, bank details and email. But from the 
evidence Ive seen this incident happened after the loan was taken, so I cant reasonably say 
this was how a third party obtained all her details to enable them to apply for the loan. She 
has also mentioned that shed lost her card holder, which contained her bank card, personal 
details and passport. Its unclear from Miss Hs testimony when exactly this happened, nor 
has she provided any evidence to support this. But even if I were to accept what she has told 
us and work on the assumption that this happened before the loan was taken. This might 
explain how someone obtained her personal details to apply for the loan, but it still doesnt 
explain how an unknown third party couldve possibly gained access to her emails, or how 
they plausibly managed to successfully intercept (over a period of just under a year), all 
letters relating to the loan that were sent to her home address.
Miss H said the post box at her address (at the time) was outside, so again Im not being 
dismissive to the possibility her post couldve been compromised. But shes not provided any 
evidence that the lock was tampered with or that postal issues were something she was 
experiencing at the time. I note she says another family member had fallen victim to a scam 
with their post being compromised  but this was 10 years ago. I dont think postal 
compromise over a decade ago can reasonably lead me to conclude that at the material time 
there was an issue with Miss Hs post. And if this was an unknown third-party as she has 
suggested it to be, I cant see why they would continue to risk themselves and what the 
benefit to them wouldve been to continue intercepting Miss Hs post once the loan funds 
had been received and spent.
Looking at the wider circumstances Miss H has told us that she received a PIN advice (but 
not the card) and some statements for a Lloyds bank account which she claims she did not 
open. She hasnt provided any evidence of when she reported this to Lloyds or the Police. In 
her latest submissions she says that she contacted Lloyds on two occasions before 
contacting the Police. But elsewhere in her submissions she has said that she contacted the 
Police and they advised her that the documents shed received could be fake, and that this 
was the reason why she didnt contact Lloyds immediately. Miss H also says that she 
reported the matter to the Police immediately, but then elsewhere she says she cant 
remember if she did when the PIN advice was received for the account (this wouldve been 
received in July 2020). I appreciate, that due to the passage of time, Miss H cant remember 
exactly when she reported this. But as the information she has shared about the timeline of 
events is inconsistent and unclear, Ive placed greater weight and relied on Lloyds system 
records, which show that the first contact it received from Miss H about this was in 
June 2021  almost a year later.I find it implausible that a person, particularly someone who had lost their card holder which 
contained their personal details, bank card and passport, would not have had, upon receipt 
of unexpected bank documents in their name genuine fraud concerns. Where a reasonable 
step for them to have taken is to contact the bank from whom they have received these 
letters immediately (and much sooner than the point at which Miss H did) to confirm the 
legitimacy of the documents (if there were concerns) and/or report that this was not them.
I note Miss H has raised points about the IP address for where the loan application was 
completed. But this doesnt really help in proving that she didnt take the loan. As Miss H 
could easily have been at another location at the time of application or even shared her 
details and agreed for someone else to apply for the loan. So I cant place much weight on 
this type of evidence.
Having carefully considered all the evidence available Im more persuaded by the 
contemporaneous and technical evidence. And of all the possible scenarios, on balance, I 
think the most likely explanation for how this loan was applied for is that it was Miss H, or 
that it was someone else with her agreement. In either case I cant say Lloyds by treating 
Miss H as the borrower; holding her liable; and pursuing her for the debt has acted unfairly. 
Id like to assure Miss H that this is not a decision that I have reached lightly, but it is what 
the available evidence leads me to conclude.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman