DRN-3877962
The complaint
Mr J has complained Yorkshire Building Society wont refund money he lost from his ISA as 
a result of a scam.
What happened
Mr Js wife was phoned by someone saying they could help her stop her accounts being 
used by fraudsters. She got very upset and Mr J took over the call. He was on the phone for 
more than five hours and during this time was talked through operations to prevent their 
accounts being accessed by fraudsters. Mr J followed these instructions for four of his 
accounts, including an ISA account held with Yorkshire.
In the case of Mr Js account with Yorkshire, the fraudster on the phone talked him through 
how to set up an alert to ensure Yorkshire didnt allow fraudulent payments. Mr J set up an 
alert for £9,700. This looked like a payment to a named person, but he was reassured this 
was an alert to Yorkshires head of security. A substantial amount remained in Mr Js ISA 
account.
The following day Mr J became suspicious and re-contacted all his banks. All but Yorkshire 
refunded him. Yorkshire told him theyd undertaken the obligation they had to follow his 
instruction to pay £9,700 to a third-party account with another bank. Mr J brought his 
complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator noted Yorkshire had taken no steps to warn Mr J of potential scams or 
undertake any additional checks on his payment. He felt that Yorkshire were required to 
have systems in place to identify unusual transactions. In this absence, he asked them to 
repay £9,700 to Mr J along with any interest he would have earned if this money had 
remained in his ISA account.
Yorkshire didnt agree with this outcome. They believed they were being judged by 
standards which didnt apply to them. They also felt it wasnt at all unusual for someone to 
make a one-off payment from an ISA account.
Mr Js complaint was referred to an ombudsman. I completed a provisional decision on 
24 November 2022. I believed that Yorkshire had done enough to stop Mr J making the 
payment.
Mr J responded. He argued Yorkshire should also have had better processes in place when 
dealing with his call confirming the fraud had taken place. He continued to feel their prompt 
action could have changed what happened.
No response was received from Yorkshire.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mr J made and authorised the payment. Im aware Mr J didnt 
believe he was transferring funds to a third-party account at the outset. Rather he thought he 
was alerting Yorkshire to the danger his account may be in. However I believe Mr J now 
appreciates that the transaction was authorised under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017.
Its also accepted that Yorkshire has an obligation to follow Mr Js instruction. In the first 
instance Mr J is presumed liable for his loss. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Yorkshire 
should:
have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Mr J fell victim to a sophisticated scam. Hes told us of how generally alert he is to potential 
fraud. Like many people, this isnt the first scam call Mr J had received but he didnt believe 
this was the case here. The fraudster didnt ask Mr J about details of his accounts, so Mr J 
felt more at ease that he was talking to someone representing the body fighting fraud (as the 
fraudster claimed).
Yorkshire has confirmed they do have mechanisms in place to check unusual transactions, 
but this one-off payment didnt trigger these. Im aware what Yorkshires triggers are and 
why they didnt apply to this transfer. It is not generally my role to question the level financial 
institutions set their triggers at. 
But I have reviewed this payment and whether it could be considered as sufficiently unusual 
such that Yorkshire ought to have intervened. Overall I dont think it is. I say this for the 
following reasons:
Mr Js transfer was for only about a tenth of the amount in his ISA. It was a one-off 
payment, not for a considerably large amount nor part of any series of transactions.
Mr Js account (at that stage) was a variable-rate ISA account. His interest rate had 
recently been lowered. I can see the merit in Yorkshires suggestion that Mr J could 
have been looking to transfer funds elsewhere to make use of them in the absence of 
attractive interest rates. And, in my experience its not unusual for fairly large, one-off 
amounts to be withdrawn from savings accounts.Yorkshires systems allow payments to third-party accounts so Mr J setting up a new 
payee  all properly authorised  wouldnt have appeared unusual. 
Ive also considered whether Yorkshire did enough after it was notified about the scam? I 
know Mr J feels this is where Yorkshire committed an additional error.
The authorised push payment (APP) Best Practice Standards say payment service providers 
should notify receiving banks about potential fraud immediately after being told about the 
fraud. 
Yorkshires records suggest it passed on information to the receiving bank the same day 
Mr J notified it about the fraud. Its not clear exactly how long that took. But its not unusual 
for fraudsters to move money on very quickly. And Yorkshires records show that the 
receiving bank was able to recover less than £5 of Mr Js money  this has already been 
returned to Mr Js account. Im not convinced that any other action Yorkshire may have 
taken would have changed that outcome.
Overall I believe Yorkshire took sufficient steps to protect Mr J and I cant fairly tell it to 
refund Mr Js money.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Js complaint against Yorkshire 
Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman