DRN-4044517
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with what AXIS Specialty Europe SE did following a claim he made on his 
professional indemnity insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr N is a solicitor and took legal action against a former client to obtain unpaid fees. The 
clients disputed the claim and counter claimed against Mr N for professional negligence. 
Axis instructed panel solicitors to act in relation to this (Mr N had his own solicitors acting in 
relation to the fees claim). 
In 2016, with the agreement of Mr Ns solicitors, the panel firm made a drop hands offer in 
relation to both claims. This wasnt accepted by the other side. The following year the other 
side made a drop hands offer in relation to the professional negligence claim only. Having 
obtained counsels advice on that, which identified legal risk in continuing with it, Axis 
instructed the panel firm to accept the drop hands offer. 
In response to the complaint Mr N subsequently made Axis said there was no cover under 
the policy for the claim relating to unpaid fees. In any case it had entered into a settlement 
with Mr N in February 2018 for any claim he might have under the policy in relation to fees or 
insolvency proceedings. In relation to the professional negligence claim the policy entitled 
Axis to settle this and it was reasonable of it to do so; a settlement covering both claims 
wasnt achievable. And a claim Mr N had made for his personal costs wasnt something the 
policy covered and it wouldnt be supporting recovery of these from anyone else. 
Our investigator thought Axis had acted in line with the terms of the policy and treated Mr N 
fairly in settling the professional negligence claim. It was entitled to rely on advice from the 
panel firm about what costs had been incurred in relation to that. He agreed the policy didnt 
cover a claim for any costs Mr N had incurred. And even if the other side had sought to 
recover costs relating to the professional negligence claim as part of the fees dispute this 
wasnt something Axis were responsible for. 
Mr N was unhappy our investigator hadnt sought to mediate the dispute between him and 
Axis. He said the investigator hadnt considered what he referred to as the coverage 
position and suggested Axis hadnt fulfilled its responsibilities under the policy to deal with 
the costs hed incurred in relation to a counterclaim. He disagreed with Axiss decision to 
split the claims (by agreeing a drop hands settlement on the professional negligence claim) 
and wanted assistance from it in pursuing £95,000 in costs he thought he was owed by the 
other side. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N has spent some time in correspondence with us arguing that we should have sought to 
mediate this complaint with Axis. And, as hes highlighted, our rules do require us to 
resolve complaints at the earliest possible stage and by whatever means appear to [the 
Ombudsman] to be most appropriate, including mediation or investigation. 
However, those rules also make clear its for us to decide what means are appropriate to 
resolve the complaint. And in many of the complaints we see its appropriate for us to 
investigate the circumstances of the complaint and then give our view on what a fair 
outcome should be. Of course, if there were nevertheless grounds to think a pragmatic 
solution might resolve matters without the need for investigation, thats something we could 
explore. 
I dont think that is (or was) the case here. Axis was clear in its final response that it didnt 
agree with the complaint Mr N had made. And there was no suggestion in that response or 
in its other correspondence with Mr N or ourselves that it would be open to a mediated 
settlement of this complaint. So I think this is a complaint we needed to investigate. And, as 
Mr N didnt agree with the outcome our investigator reached, its one on which I now need to 
reach a final decision. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Axis has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. In considering how that applies 
here Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Ns professional indemnity policy. This 
covers claims resulting in a civil liability which arise from the insureds professional business 
and related defence costs. Claim is defined as the receipt by the insured of a demand for, or 
an assertion of a right to, civil compensation or civil damages or an intimation of an intention 
to seek such compensation or damages. 
Defence costs are defined as legal costs and disbursements and investigative and related 
expenses reasonably and necessarily incurred on the insureds behalf with the consent of 
the insurer. Defence costs do not include any internal or overhead expenses of the insured 
or the insurer or the cost of the insureds time.
So the policy wouldnt cover the claim Mr N pursued for unpaid fees against his former 
clients but would potentially cover the professional negligence claim made against him and 
defence costs relating to that. But the policy also contains a clause which says the insurer 
shall have the right to take over and conduct in the name of the insured, the defence, 
negotiation or settlement of any claim or circumstancesand shall have full discretion in the 
conduct of any proceedings and in the settlement of any claim or circumstances.
In this case Axis decided in 2017 to accept the drop hands offer from the other side in 
relation to the professional negligence claim. I appreciate Mr N disagrees with that decision 
but thats something its entitled to do under the terms of the policy. And I think Axis acted 
fairly in doing so. Its decision followed correspondence the previous year with the other side 
in which it sought (with the agreement of Mr Ns solicitors) to agree a drop hands settlement 
on both claims. But the other side didnt agree to that. And in a subsequent email to Mr N it 
said our clients are not prepared to combine the two separate actions and will not discuss 
global settlement.
Prior to agreeing the drop hands settlement Axis obtained counsels advice on whether to 
pursue costs incurred in relation to the professional negligence claim. That advice said while 
there was a possibility of making an application for costs there was a risk this would prompt 
the other side to issue fresh proceedings. In relation to that counsel advised it does seem to 
me to be a risk that the Insurer and Insurers would probably wish to avoid if at all possible. I appreciate Mr Ns concern that the settlement meant the policy didnt provide funding for 
him to recover costs he says he incurred in relation to the professional negligence claim. 
However, prior to settlement being agreed the panel solicitors provided advice to Axis in 
relation to this and said given that we were instructed by Insurers to deal with the entirety of
the claim I cannot see how any costs could have been incurred by [Mr N] which would be 
recoverable from the Claimants. Taking into account the policy terms, the position of the 
other side and the legal advice it had received I dont think Axis acted unreasonably in 
agreeing to the drop hands settlement. 
Mr N has suggested his policy should cover the costs he incurred which hes calculated at 
£95,000. I appreciate the drop hands offer meant that each side would bear their own costs 
but that would only be in relation to the professional negligence claim and cover defence 
costs as defined by the policy. I havent seen evidence to show the costs Mr N is claiming 
would meet that definition. In fact from the breakdown hes provided they appear to be his 
personal time costs in dealing with the claims which is specifically excluded from cover by 
the policy wording. So I think Axis acted reasonably in declining to pay these. 
Mr N has subsequently sought assistance from Axis in seeking to claim his costs relating to 
the professional negligence claim from the other side. But I dont think theres anything within 
the policy which would cover that claim. I agree if Mr N had lost out on those costs because 
of something Axis got wrong it might nevertheless be fair to expect it to fund a claim in 
relation to these but Ive already concluded it acted reasonably in agreeing to the drop 
hands settlement. As our investigator said if Mr N is unhappy with the legal advice from the 
panel firm Axis relied on when agreeing to that settlement thats something hed need to 
raise with those solicitors. 
Mr N has also made reference in correspondence to coverage issues. Its not entirely clear 
what this relates to but in his most recent emails hes said this is about Axis not fulfilling its 
responsibilities under the policy to deal with the costs hed incurred in relation to a 
counterclaim. I understand this was made in response to his fees claim. 
But Axis says that claim was never properly articulated and was struck out by the courts as 
no fee had been paid. So its not clear what costs would have been incurred by Mr N in 
relation to this that would be covered by the policy. Its also unclear why any claim in relation 
to this wouldnt be covered by the settlement Axis made in February 2018 which covered 
any claimed indemnity arising from or connected to the fees claim. So, based on the 
evidence presented to it, I dont think Axis did anything wrong in declining to consider these 
matters further. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman