DRN-2744001
The complaint
Mr Y has complained about QIC Europe Ltd as it has declined his claim for storm damage to 
his conservatory roof under his home insurance policy and deducted an accidental damage 
excess from the settlement it agreed to pay for his damaged flooring.
What happened
Mr Y was woken during the night of 8 February 2020 by loud cracking and banging noises, 
he thought the noise was coming from the conservatory but could see no damage. By the 
next morning water was coming in and despite Mr Ys efforts to protect the flooring, the 
laminate was damaged. Mr Y felt his conservatory roof had moved too. He made a claim to 
QIC.
QIC sent a glazing company to the property to look at the damage. The company wrote to 
QIC. It said its representative had found no storm damage and its representatives opinion 
was that the conservatory had suffered age-related deterioration.
Mr Y had a conservatory expert assess the damage. It concluded damage had likely been 
caused during the storm which had caused the seals to fail. It explained why, in this case, 
that was likely due to the storm. It also noted recent cracking where the conservatory joins 
the house; it said this meant there had been some recent movement. QIC reviewed the 
report internally and said failed seals was an age-related issue, not something caused by a 
storm. It declined the roof claim. It explained this was because the damage wasnt consistent 
with storm damage and the weather hadnt equated to a storm as defined by the policy.
QIC said that because the external damage was declined under storm, it could only look at 
the internal damage under the accidental damage cover on the policy. It noted Mr Ys quote 
for replacing the flooring was £1,029 and that initially it had said it would take the standard 
policy excess of £100 from this sum before paying Mr Y. But it explained that actually the 
correct excess, in its view, was that applicable to accidental damage  £250, which would 
make Mr Ys settlement £779. Mr Y complained to us.
Our investigator said there was no storm, and he didnt think the damage was consistent 
with that caused by a storm. So he was satisfied QIC had acted fairly.
Mr Y provided a weather report which he had paid for which showed storm conditions had 
occurred. Our investigator said this didnt change anything. The complaint came to me and 
I felt the complaint should be upheld, with QIC providing settlement to Mr Y for the repairs 
and paying him £100 compensation. My provisional findings were:
storm
QICs policy says:
 
We will cover loss or damage caused by storm winds of Force 10 or above (as defined 
under the internationally recognised Beaufort Scale)
But this service has always considered that a storm can be high winds with 
rain/sleet/hail/snow. And that a storm can be any of the above occurring individually, if the 
conditions are extreme. If an insurer wishes to restrict the cover it offers it has to be very 
clear about this fact and highlight it to the policyholder. 
Im conscious that Mr Y lives in an exposed position. I think, particularly in light of all the 
coverage in recent years of storms and the damage they do, if Mr Y had been aware that 
QICs policy was only offering limited cover in the event of storms he would have found 
cover elsewhere. So Im going to consider this complaint in light of Mr Y having the more 
usual cover for storm with no restriction to cover for only wind damage.
was there a storm?
I believe there was. QIC only looked at evidence from one nearby weather station  but even 
its own report referred to windstorms locally. Mr Y has shown, by virtue of a report he paid 
for, windspeeds of 32 miles per hour and rainfall of 64.8 mm per hour. That rainfall alone 
equates to a storm.
But Ive also checked the weather data available for the 8 and 9 February 2020 and Ive 
found that multiple weather stations near to Mr Y recorded windspeeds of 60 miles an hour 
and more. Rainfall records also showed that in a 24-hour period on 9 February 2020, 74 mm 
of rain fell. Im satisfied there was a storm.
is the damage consistent with storm damage?
Storms can cause structural damage. A conservatory is a relatively light structure and could 
be affected by very strong winds. Storms can cause damage internally too, where either the 
externals have been compromised in some way or the force of the storm finds a way in that 
other, more settled weather doesnt.
was the damage caused by the storm?
the roof
Mr Y has presented a report written by a conservatory expert which viewed the damaged 
roof. That expert also noted damage which QIC doesnt seem to have considered  to the 
joint with the house. In contrast QIC has provided a report from a company which spoke to 
its representative which had viewed the conservatory. QICs claim handler has also then 
considered the content of Mr Ys report and focused only on the sentence that refers to seals 
having failed.
I find Mr Ys report to be more persuasive. Not least because it has been written by someone 
who has actually seen the damage. But I note it also explains why, whilst damage to seals is 
often age related, that is unlikely to be the case in respect of this damage (in the view of the 
expert). And the expert concludes the roof has recently moved. Ive seen nothing from QIC 
that might challenge this conclusion or explain why this wasnt caused by the storm. Im 
satisfied that Mr Ys roof suffered storm damage which QIC is liable for under the policy.
the flooring
Even if the roof hadnt been damaged by the storm, the flooring could still be covered by QIC 
under this peril. If storm rain got in and damaged the flooring where normal rain wouldnt 
have done  then the damage to the flooring has been caused by the storm. Im satisfied 
that the flooring can be covered as part of the storm claim.  
settlementMr Y has gone ahead with the repairs. I note he has installed a different kind of roof than that 
which he had before. But I havent seen any evidence from QIC that suggests Mr Y could 
have completed repairs at a lower cost if hed exchanged the roof like-for-like. And as QIC 
wasnt prepared to accept the claim and Mr Y needed to protect his home, he had to make a 
decision to complete the work necessary to reinstate the conservatory. I see he was advised 
by his expert on the best way of doing this  installing the new style roof  and I think it was 
reasonable that he followed that recommendation. Especially in light of the lack of any 
support from QIC. Im satisfied QIC should pay his cost for repair, plus interest*.
QIC has already accepted Mr Ys flooring quote. It will have to reimburse this cost, plus 
interest* too. 
From the total of these two sums, before interest is added, QIC can deduct £100. This is the 
policy excess for buildings claims. As both parts of the buildings damage claim are being 
settled under the cover for storm, QIC cant reasonably apply the higher excess of £250 
which applies to cover for accidental damage.
If Mr Y had a cost from the conservatory expert for his report, QIC should refund this too. 
Also plus interest*.
Mr Y told us he paid £99 for the weather report he obtained. It has formed part of my findings 
on this complaint, which equates to a change in the outcome of the claim. Therefore, QIC 
should refund this sum to Mr Y also, plus interest*.
compensation
I can see that Mr Y has been frustrated and disappointed by QICs decline of his claim. Its 
fortunate that he was able to go ahead with repairs anyway, and with the minimum of delay. 
This clearly limited the inconvenience he suffered as a result of the unfair and unreasonable 
decline. But I think some compensation is still due. I intend to award £100. 
Mr Y said he accepted the findings. QIC objected to them.
In summary QIC said:
Mr Ys policy terms were clear and hed had ample opportunity to review them and 
change his cover if hed felt they werent suitable.
Given the policy wording, the rainfall data is irrelevant.
Whilst it now accepts there were storm conditions (windspeeds of over 55 miles per 
hour), it still doesnt believe the damage was consistent with that caused by storm. It 
feels its shown there was no storm damage.
Its expert company did attend the site and view the damage.
The flooring element has been settled so no interest is due.
It was unclear why Mr Y had gone to the expense of obtaining a weather report when 
this service was considering his complaint.
It feels that merely declining a claim shouldnt result in a compensation award.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained provisionally that where an insurer uses an unusual and significant term in their 
policy it has to be very clear about this and highlight it to the policyholder. Having a clear 
term within the standard policy wording, where the policyholder is merely directed to check 
the policy as a whole to ensure it meets their needs, doesnt meet that criteria. So its fair for 
me to consider Mr Ys complaint in light of this services, and the industrys, general and 
wider definition of storm, which as Ive said, includes rainfall.
Strong winds can affect light structures such as conservatories. I appreciate that QIC feels 
Ive ignored or dismissed its evidence unfairly. I havent, but I do feel its less persuasive as 
the writer of the report on the conservatory was not the expert which viewed it. But I also 
explained provisionally that theres been no expert rebuttal from QIC of the clear reasoning 
Mr Ys expert gave for why, on this occasion, the damage to the seals of the conservatory 
was unlikely to be age related. As I also said provisionally, QIC also didnt give any 
consideration to the damage Mr Ys expert found at the point where the house joins the 
conservatory. I remain of the view that Mr Ys evidence is more persuasive and, therefore, 
am persuaded that hes shown the damage to his conservatory was most likely caused by 
the storm.
Mr Ys property suffered damage in February 2020. By the point QIC issued its final 
response letter in May 2020 the flooring had not been paid for and QIC was only offering to 
pay £779.08 for it, which was Mr Ys cost, less the £250 excess that applies to accidental 
damage claims. So Mr Y was denied fair settlement in a timely manner because QIC did not 
accept the flooring under the storm cover available on the policy (which only attracts a £100 
excess). But Mr Y shouldnt receive interest for any amounts he has received beyond the 
point the amount was paid to him. Whilst I did say provisionally that interest should be paid 
until the date settlement is made, if any part of that settlement amount has already been 
paid, the application of interest would naturally cease at that point. But my award set out 
below now deals specifically with this point. 
A complainant often needs to support their position with evidence. That is what Mr Y sought 
to do by obtaining the weather report. This service has long held that where a complainant 
incurs a cost for obtaining evidence and that evidence influences the outcome of the 
complaint, the respondent should reimburse that cost. If Mr Y shows evidence of his outlay 
for the weather report to QIC, it will have to reimburse it, plus interest*.
My compensation award wasnt made because QIC had declined Mr Ys claim. That would 
be punitive. Rather I explained provisionally that Im satisfied that Mr Y suffered some 
frustration, disappointment and inconvenience due to QICs unfair decline of his claim. But 
that his inconvenience at least was limited because he was able to find the funds to reinstate 
the conservatory, rather than having to live with it in its damaged state whilst challenging 
QICs position. Im satisfied that £100 compensation is fairly and reasonably due.
Putting things right
I require QIC to pay Mr Y:
£4,429.08 (which is: £3,500 being the cost for the roof replacement, plus £1,029.08 
being the cost for the flooring reinstatement, minus £100 being the applicable policy 
excess), to reimburse Mr Ys reinstatement costs. An amount equivalent to interest* on the following two sums (which make up the above 
total of £4,429.08)  £3,650 (being the roof cost plus part of the cost for flooring) and 
£779.08 (for flooring) from the date Mr Y paid the amounts which make up these 
respective sums until they are, or were, reimbursed by QIC. 
A reimbursement amount equivalent to the cost incurred for the expert report (if one 
was), plus interest from the date the cost was incurred until settlement is made.
£99 as reimbursement of the cost incurred for the weather report, plus interest* from the 
date the cost was incurred until settlement is made.
£100 compensation.
All payments by QIC of reimbursement sums are subject to Mr Y showing it proof of the cost 
he incurred, that proof should include the date of payment.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If QIC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mr Y, it should tell him how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr Y a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd to provide the redress set out above in 
putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman