DRN-3504956
The complaint
Miss B and Mr C complain about American International Group UK Limiteds (AIG) decision 
to decline a claim made under their commercial insurance policy. Any references to AIG 
include its agents. 
What happened
In February 2021, a fire occurred at Miss B and Mr Cs commercial premises. The fire 
caused significant damage to the kitchen, and the business wasnt able to operate. Miss B 
and Mr C contacted AIG to log a claim. 
AIG began an investigation, which included appointing a qualified fire investigator who 
indicated there was no evidence to support the fire originated anywhere else but in the deep 
fat fryer. AIG subsequently declined the claim, saying CCTV footage showed nobody was in 
the kitchen whilst the deep fat fryer was energised, and the terms of the policy required that 
all cooking equipment was attended whilst in operation. Miss B and Mr C complained about 
this decision. In its final response AIG stood by the claim decision but acknowledged there 
was a delay in sharing the decision to decline the claim. Miss B and Mr C were offered £650 
in respect of this. 
Miss B and Mr C were unhappy with AIGs response and referred their complaint to this 
service. It was considered by one of our investigators who said she didnt think AIG had 
acted unfairly in declining the claim. As Miss B and Mr C didnt agree, this matter has been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B and Mr C appointed a loss assessor to work for them. In response to the claim being 
declined, he put forward an argument the fryer had been turned off a long time before auto 
ignition, and he considered the likely cause of the fire was a mechanical failure and this was 
agreed by all parties. However, he also says the equipment was destroyed before he could 
arrange for his own independent review to be carried out on the fryer. He also said the chefs 
signed statement omitted several things that had been discussed. 
AIG say the fryer hasnt been destroyed and remains in storage. Im satisfied it also shared a 
copy of the fire inspection report with Miss B and Mr Cs loss assessor. But Im not 
persuaded the overall conclusion from AIG was a mechanical failure caused the fryer to 
remain on.
With this in mind, Ive considered the information available. The laboratory examination 
carried out by a qualified fire investigator, instructed by AIG, is comprehensive. They 
investigated and set out the condition of the fryer and the power switches in their report, 
suggesting the left-hand fryer head had been energised before and during the fire. The 
expert also identified a potential breach of clause 6.2, which says: 
6.2 all cooking equipment used for deep fat frying shall be fitted with a thermostat 
which will prevent the temperature of fat or oil exceeding 205 Celsius  and a high 
temperature non self-resetting limit control to shut off the heat source if the fat or oil 
exceeds 230 degrees Celsius
In the reports compiled by the fire investigator, he concluded the autoignition of the cooking 
oil occurred due to a failure to operate of both the variable thermostat and high limit safety 
cut out fitted to the left-hand fryer head.. The inspector noted that the fryer was fitted with a 
high limit safety cut-out rated at 225 Celsius. He also stated that during some tests, 
comparable oil started showing signs of overheating at 230 Celsius, with autoignition 
occurring at 371 Celsius. I consider the report provided by the fire inspector is persuasive in 
setting out how the fire began, and where it appears AIG has demonstrated the policy terms 
havent been met with regard to a thermostat shutting off the heat source when the 
temperature exceeded a certain point.  
Ill turn now to the dispute about whether the fryer was left unattended. Mr Cs statement 
confirmed he and the chef were in the bar when the fire started. The chef also provided a 
signed statement, saying while he is usually in the kitchen when cooking, on the night in 
question he and Mr C may have been in and out of the kitchen. Both said they thought the 
fryer had been turned off. The breakdown of the CCTV footage is detailed and shows that 
the fryer was left unattended before the fire was discovered. However, the fire inspector said 
in his report:
In my opinion there were visible signs of overheating oil before flames broke out. If
someone had been in the kitchen and observed those signs, they could have isolated 
the power before autoignition and prevented the fire.
Having considered the conflicting information provided about whether the fryer was turned 
off before the fire was discovered, I am more persuaded by the report from the fire inspector, 
in that it is more likely than not the fryer was energised and left unattended.
Im not persuaded there is sufficient information to support the allegation of a mechanical 
failure. Based on the information provided to me, I am more persuaded by the account put 
forward by AIG than I am by Miss B, Mr C, and their loss assessor. This being that at the 
fryer was energised before and during the fire, and that the fryer was unattended. The policy 
terms require a thermostat preventing oil from exceeding temperatures of 205, and that the 
equipment is not unattended when energised and I am satisfied AIG has shown it acted fairly 
in relying on these clauses when declining the claim. It follows, I dont consider AIG acted 
unfairly in declining the claim. Im not going to require it to take any further action. 
I appreciate this isnt the answer Miss B and Mr C will be hoping for and leave it for them to 
decide if they want to accept the compensation AIG offered of £650, which I consider to be a 
fair payment for the delay in sharing the outcome of the claim. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman