DRN-3945195
The complaint
Mr S has a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with James Hay Administration Company 
Ltd trading as James Hay Partnership.  Mr S invested in an arrangement HM Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC) has since challenged. Mr Ss complaint is that James Hay should not have 
allowed that investment in its SIPPs.
What happened
In 2014 Mr S applied for a SIPP with James Hay.  Mr S also bought shares in a company 
which was part of an investment arrangement I will refer to as the Scheme.  He bought 
around 40,000 shares at £1 each.  This was funded largely by a limited recourse loan which 
was part of the Scheme.    
Shortly after the SIPP was opened Mr S arranged for James Hay to the shares from him 
using the funds in his SIPP.  James Hay paid £1 per share meaning just over £40,000 was 
paid out of the SIPP to Mr S.
This arrangement was later challenged by HMRC as an unauthorised payment out of the 
SIPP and Mr S has ended up paying an unauthorised payment surcharge and interest to 
HMRC.
Mr S complained to James Hay.  It did not uphold his complaint.  Mr S then referred his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ss complaint.  He thought the complaint should not 
be upheld.  He made several points including:
Mr S had a financial adviser involved in this matter. 
Mr Ss own professional qualifications meant he would have had a good 
understanding of pension legislation and the circumstances that would make a 
payment unauthorised and the tax implications of such payments.  He worked for a 
firm that whose services included providing tax planning advice and dealt with HMRC 
investigations.
Mr S ought to have known the shares were not worth the subscription price as he 
was buying mainly with a limited recourse loan.  
Mr S sold the shares to his SIPP for £1 each releasing his pension funds to him and 
therefore withdrawing more than 25% of his fund without incurring an immediate tax 
liability.
Mr S was sufficiently knowledgeable and experienced that he would have invested in 
this way even if James Hay had not accepted his application.
In all the circumstances it would not be fair to ask James Hay to pay compensation to 
Mr S.
Mr S is represented by a claims management company.  It does not agree with the 
investigator.  It has made several points including:
The Financial Ombudsman Service is, in other cases, saying James Hay failed to 
carry out sufficient checks on the Scheme.  And saying James Hay should 
compensate other consumers.
The investigator has said Mr Ss complaint should not be upheld because of the 
particular circumstances of Mr Ss case but none of those circumstances should 
make a difference.  Although Mr S is a qualified professional, he is not a pensions or 
taxation specialist.
As far as James Hay was concerned Mr S was just another client.  He was not 
categorised as a professional client, and he should not be judged as one.
If James Hay had carried out adequate due diligence it would not have accepted any 
applications involving the Scheme.  This means James Hay would not have accepted 
Mr Ss application. 
James Hay is a large and reputable SIPP operator.  It held itself out as having carried 
out due diligence on, and as being expert on, the Scheme.  Mr S was entitled to trust 
it.
It is wrong to suggest that Mr S understood that the Scheme involved an 
unauthorised payment.  He would not have invested if he had known that.  
It is also wrong to say Mr S would have gone ahead with the Scheme investment, or 
something similar, if James Hay had refused his application.  He only made the 
investment because James Hay approved the Scheme.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions and I have considered all 
that has been said and provided. I will not however respond to all the points that have been 
made, rather I will concentrate on what I consider to be the central issue in this case.
The Scheme in this case was an unusual arrangement.  It involved buying shares largely 
with a limited recourse loan and then selling those shares to the SIPP so that funds were 
paid out of the pension scheme to the investor.  This is, as I have said, an unusual 
arrangement and on closer inspection HMRC was not happy with it.  It said the payment was 
an unauthorised payment and imposed a surcharge and interest.
There are numerous examples of investment schemes that are set up to make use of tax 
concessions which push, with varying amounts of aggression, at the boundaries of the 
purpose of the concession. Sometimes people invest in those schemes without 
understanding there is a risk that HMRC might challenge the scheme.  Sometimes people 
invest in those schemes understanding and accepting the risk HMRC might challenge the 
scheme.  And over recent years, as seen for example with film partnerships, HMRC has 
been more and more active in challenging the schemes it thinks are tax avoidance schemes.
If an investor chooses to invest in a scheme understanding and accepting the risk HMRC 
might challenge their scheme and might impose tax consequences upon them, is it fair and 
reasonable for such an investor to complain later if HMRC does challenge and does impose those consequences?  That is, in effect, the issue here because, like the investigator, I 
consider that Mr S, because of his own professional expertise, will have realised the Scheme 
was unusual and was at risk of challenge from HMRC.  Mr S may not have been a pensions 
or taxation specialist within his profession but I consider that he will nevertheless have had a 
good understanding of taxation matters, and of the possibility of HMRC questioning a 
scheme involving unusual features such as the Scheme in this case. 
Mr S will have done a number of things when he was weighing up the risks involved.  And 
that will have, or should have, included his own assessment (made in conjunction with his 
financial advisers if they were advising him on the matter and not just arranging it on his 
instructions) of the Scheme as a whole  not just the share price  set against his 
professional understanding of taxation matters.  I accept that he may also have taken into 
account the fact that James Hay was prepared to allow members of its SIPPs to invest in the 
Scheme (or previous versions of it).  But does that mean that the risk Mr S knew, or should 
have known, he was taking should fairly and reasonably transfer to James Hay?  In my view 
it does not. 
James Hay was not Mr Ss adviser.  It did not advise him that taking those risks was suitable 
for him. Mr S made that decision for himself, or in conjunction with his advisers.  But in my 
view, in determining his complaint against James Hay only, that was a decision Mr S was 
qualified and experienced to reasonably make for himself (either by himself or in conjunction 
with his financial advisers), and it is fair and reasonable that he bears the consequences of 
that decision. 
 
In my view, in the unusual circumstances of Mr Ss case, even if James Hay did not carry out 
adequate due diligence on the Scheme (and I make no finding on that point), it is not fair and 
reasonable to require it to pay compensation to Mr S.  And so, in the particular 
circumstances of his case, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint against James Hay Administration Company Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman