DRN-2936201
The complaint
Mrs J has complained about her home insurer Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited because 
when she made a claim for water damage it investigated that before eventually declining it 
and it also cancelled her policy from the day she made the claim.
What happened
Mrs J arranged cover with Admiral in December 2017. On 10 October 2018 Mrs Js son, 
whom Ill refer to as Mr J1, found water coming through the kitchen ceiling. Mr J1 took 
photos of the damage. A claim was made to Admiral on 12 October, Admiral was told that a 
leak had occurred from the bathroom, damaging the kitchen ceiling, warping the worktops, 
affecting the cupboards and flooring, and blowing the electrics. 
Admiral sent an assessor to the property on 15 October 2018. He recorded the following:
[Mr J1] advised his mother is elderly and ill and he lives between this house and his 
partners [sic]. He advised he came home [10 October 2018] and could smell damp and went 
into the kitchen and found the floor flooded with water dripping from above the kitchen 
window. He advised the following day, tiles fell off the wall behind the worktop. The customer 
had been using the bath on the day of loss.
The assessor was shown the photos taken on 10 October 2018, but noted that, with the 
exception of the units, the walls of the kitchen had since been stripped. He saw a copper 
pipe in the kitchen which had been repaired, as well as what appeared to be evidence of a 
leak having occurred from the bath waste pipe. Mr J1 explained that when the plumber had 
attended to fix the bath leak, a second leak, on the concealed copper pipe had been found. 
The assessor felt that not all the damage in the kitchen had been caused by the leak from 
the bath waste. He thought some was likely caused by the supply pipe leak, as well as rising 
damp, that both of these causes of damage had been on-going for quite some time, and 
their results would have been obvious to Mr J1, even if Mrs J had been too ill to be aware.
 
Mr J1 didnt agree that not all the damage in the property had resulted from the bath leak. He 
obtained an estimate for repair which included replacing the kitchen and, including VAT, 
totalled around £10,000, other reinstatement costs took the total for work to over £11,000. 
The assessor had further concerns about the estimate  that the contractor appeared to be 
linked to Mrs J and might not, therefore, be offering an independent view of the necessary 
repairs. The assessor referenced the scope they had drawn up which they felt was the 
extent of Admirals liability for the damage caused by the bath water leak. Admiral agreed 
that settlement on this basis, either by cash (of around £5,000) or by Admiral appointing 
contractors to complete that work, could be offered  but if this wasnt accepted it would be 
reviewing and investigating the claim further.
In the meantime Mr J1 went ahead and completed all the work, in line with the estimate he 
had obtained. So when Admiral made its offer Mr J1 didnt agree to accept it. Admiral then 
discovered information which lead it to believe that Mrs J may not have been living in the 
property at the time of the loss. Admiral also received contact from Mrs Js other son, Mr J2. 
Admiral decided it wanted to speak to both sons and Mrs J. A meeting was arranged for 
18 January 2019 but Mrs J didnt attend. 
Mr J2 said Mr J1 had begun living at the property full time shortly before the water leak 
occurred. Mr J2 said Mrs J and Mr J1 live permanently at the insured property although 
theyd gone to stay with friends for a time when the damage occurred. Admiral noted this 
was different to what Mr J1 had told it before. It asked Mr J2, whom now seemed to take 
over dealing with the claim, for further evidence of Mrs Js occupancy of the property, as well 
as for proof that the reinstatement work claimed for by Mrs J had been paid for. Mr J2 sent 
proof of payment to Admiral, and, in February 2019, provided some further explanation 
about Mrs Js living arrangements. He said that in 2018 Mrs J had been offered some 
alternative housing, which Mr J1 had accepted on her behalf, but she had never moved 
there as shed refused to leave her home, the insured property, where shed remained 
resident. 
In April 2019 Admiral received email confirmation from a housing company that offers 
assisted living accommodation, which confirmed that Mrs J had been a tenant of one of its 
properties since August 2018. By July 2019 Mr J2 said hed had trouble getting any details 
from the likes of utility providers, but he did have a council tax bill for the insured property, 
addressed to his mother, which he shared with Admiral. 
In June 2019 Admiral wrote to Mrs J explaining that it felt shed misled it when the policy had 
been arranged. But said it hadnt decided yet whether or not to avoid the policy to its start 
date in 2017 (treating it as though it had never existed). 
Ultimately, in September 2019, Admiral decided the property had likely been unoccupied 
since around August 2018. It said, that being the case, the property had been unoccupied at 
the time of the loss in October 2018. It explained that it was cancelling the policy and 
declining the claim as it felt the claim was fraudulent, particularly given information which it 
felt was untrue which had been supplied to it about Mrs J living at the insured address. It 
said that even if there had been no fraud, the claim would likely have failed because the 
unoccupancy clause on the policy would have meant there was no cover for water damage 
by the point of the claim in October 2018, not given it felt Mrs J hadnt lived there since 
August (more than thirty days prior).
Regarding how the claim had been handled Admiral had answered this in July 2019. It felt its 
investigations between December 2018 and June 2019 had been somewhat delayed. In 
short it felt it could have progressed the matter regarding the unoccupancy sooner. But it 
said it was entitled to investigate matters and it didnt accept that its communication in 
respect of the claim had been poor.
Mr J2 complained to us. Our investigator felt Admiral had acted fairly and reasonably so 
didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr J2 said no-one had ever taken account of the fact that whilst a tenancy was in place from 
August 2018 for Mrs J at an alternative address, she had never moved there and no-one had 
ever asked for proof of Mr J1s address. Nor had any note been taken of the fact that when 
Admirals assessor had visited in October 2018, the house had been full of personal 
belongings with no concerns raised by the assessor that the house might have been 
unoccupied. Mr J2 said that, following the visit, the claim had been accepted and theyd only 
been waiting for Admiral to come and do the work. But when this didnt happen they went 
ahead and had the property reinstated in line with the estimate  all of which had needed 
doing on account of the damage caused by the bath leak. Mr J2 maintained that the partial 
offer and ultimate decline of the claim in its entirety had been unfair, as had the cancellation.The complaint was passed to me to determine. I felt this claim had been complex and, at 
times, Admiral had received information that had reasonably given it cause for concern. But 
I felt Admirals actions in referring to avoidance, alleging fraud, cancelling the policy and 
declining the claim had been unfair. I issued a provisional decision to explain what I felt 
Admiral must do now, concluding it should do the following to put things right: 
Remove any record (if such exists) of avoidance from its own and any industry database.
Remove the record of the fraud and policy cancellation from its own and any industry 
database.
Reinstate the policy. (To date, or until the need for the cover fell away (if it has done)).
Pay Mrs J £762, plus interest*. (In settlement of the claim). 
Admiral didnt object to my findings. Mr J2 made some further points, including that they had 
waited for six weeks for Admiral to act and in the end had no choice but to do the work. He 
said Admiral were made aware work was starting and they werent told to stop. Mr J2 argued 
that Admiral should have to pay more in settlement, and he sent evidence to support his 
position that whilst he had initially paid for the repairs, Mrs J had paid him back. This 
evidence was shared with Admiral. Admiral said it didnt find the evidence persuasive. I gave 
the new evidence consideration and sent some further findings to both parties. I explained 
that I wasnt persuaded to change my view about the extent of the settlement Id 
provisionally said Admiral should pay. Mr J2 objected to my findings. Admiral replied stating 
I had been wrong to say it hadnt avoided the policy  it had and it sent a copy of a letter to 
evidence this.
Having considered everything Im now ready to make my final decision. All of my previous 
findings, including my recent ones about what loss to Mrs J has been shown to my 
satisfaction, are copied below in italics. Where relevant comments and/or objections have 
been made about or against those findings, which I need to address, Ive done so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
avoidance 
In its letter dated June 2019 Admiral explained that it may avoid the policy on grounds that 
Mrs J hadnt told it she wasnt living at the property. Ill explain my view on unoccupancy 
further on in this decision, but Admiral, according to its correspondence, ultimately chose not 
to avoid Mrs Js policy. I mention this issue here however, as Admirals file is unclear on this 
point, its file actually suggests that avoidance was its final position on policy liability. As 
Admirals correspondence to Mrs J confirmed it actually dealt with the unoccupancy and 
liability issue on the grounds of fraud, it cant also avoid the policy. If Admiral has recorded 
an avoidance on its own and/or any industry database it will need to remove that record.
fraud
An insurer wanting to rely on an allegation of fraud to decline a claim and cancel a policy has 
to support that position with strong evidence. And its fair to say that just because wrong 
and/or contradictory information is provided, its rare for this service to find such reasonably 
supports an allegation of fraud. Here Admiral has to show, with strong evidence, that Mrs J 
(or those acting on her behalf) provided information known to be wrong with a view to 
obtaining something under the policy which Mrs J wouldnt be otherwise entitled to receive. I accept that Admiral has been given differing information about who lived at the property 
and when. I also accept that it received seemingly clear-cut evidence from an independent 
third party (the housing company) suggesting Mrs J lived elsewhere. But I dont see that 
Admiral ever took account of the explanation Mr J1 and Mr J2 gave it in response to this. Or 
that Admiral sought any further information. As it is, I think Mr J1 and Mrs J2s explanation  
that they had secured a tenancy for Mrs J but that Mrs J had never moved into the property 
 is perfectly plausible. And, given the nature of the information request Admiral had made to 
the housing company, and the response it gave, I dont think the possibility of Mr J1 and 
Mr J2s explanation being the most likely scenario, can be ruled out. 
Other than the fact of the contradictory information provided about the basis upon which 
Mr J1 used the property, and that Admiral felt it hadnt been shown to its satisfaction that 
Mrs J lived there, the detail from the housing company is the only evidence relied upon by 
Admiral in respect of fraud. In the circumstances, for me, that isnt strong enough proof that 
Mrs J, or her representatives, acted dishonestly to gain a benefit from the policy Mrs J wasnt 
entitled to receive (because she didnt live at the property which was the subject of the 
damage claim).
Im minded to make Admiral remove the record of the fraud and reinstate the policy to date, 
or until the need for the cover fell away (if it has done). Which means I also need to give 
consideration to how the alleged unoccupancy might affect the claim, and whether Admiral 
has shown it can reasonably decline the claim on the basis of the unoccupancy exclusion.
Mr J2 has given further clarification about Mr J1s living arrangements and says he believes 
there is no confusion. I note what he says. But I dont feel I need to consider this aspect any 
further. Thats because Ive already found (albeit provisionally) that the discrepancies 
Admiral had concerns about werent enough to establish that either the house had been 
unoccupied or that a fraud had been committed by, or on behalf of, Mrs J.  
Very late in this complaint Admiral has now sent a letter to us to evidence what it says was it 
avoiding Mrs Js policy. However, I note the letter was not a final response and it gave Mrs J 
a chance to respond to and object to the findings (which explained that Admiral was 
considering avoiding the policy from its renewal date in December 2018 because it believed 
the property had been unoccupied). Admiral then, about a month later issued a final 
response to Mrs J which explained it was cancelling the policy on grounds of fraud from 
10 October 2018, with the unoccupancy of the property being at the heart of this decision. 
Its interesting that Admiral has now shared the August 2019 letter with us. But it wasnt a 
final letter and its position on the policy clearly changed after that was issued. And, as 
I noted provisionally, Admirals final position, communicated in a letter of September 2019 
was one of cancellation on grounds of fraud. As I also noted provisionally, that act trumped 
any avoidance, especially where the avoidance would have post-dated the cancellation on 
grounds of fraud. A policy which has been cancelled on grounds of fraud wont fall for 
renewal. So once Admiral chose its final position of cancellation, the renewal and the 
avoidance of that which Admiral had considered implementing fell away. And when Admiral 
cancelled on grounds of fraud it did not reserve its rights, on the off-chance that its fraud 
decision was found to be unfair and unreasonable, to revert to a position of avoidance from 
December 2018. As I said provisionally, if Admiral has logged an avoidance on its own or 
any industry database for Mrs J, it will have to remove that log. Having reviewed everything 
Im still not persuaded that Admirals intent or action to cancel or avoid this policy was fair or 
reasonable. So, if Mrs J accepts my final decision, it will have to reinstate it. 
I continued in my provisional findings to consider Admirals decline of the claim:
the claimIm not persuaded Admiral can fairly and reasonably decline the claim. The policy contains 
an unoccupancy exclusion, this effectively removes cover for water damage where the 
property has been unoccupied for more than 30 days. Admiral argues Mrs J moved out of 
her home in August 2018, adding thirty days to that, in Admirals view, means that by the 
time of the claim in early October, there was no cover on the policy for water damage.
However, Ive noted above that I dont think the detail from the housing company is wholly 
persuasive evidence that Mrs J was not living at her home from August 2018 onwards. 
Added to that, I note that photos of the kitchen taken by Mr J1 on the day he found the 
water, seem to show a kitchen that is in use  there are dishes in a drying rack, sundry items 
on the windowsill, a roll of kitchen paper on the side. The kitchen had been cleared by the 
time Admirals assessor viewed the property on 15 October. But he didnt raise any concerns 
about the property likely being unoccupied, and his own photos of the bathroom suggested it 
was still being used with, for example, a bottle of bleach on the back of the toilet, bathroom 
scales on the floor and personal toiletry items in evidence. Where occupancy at the point of 
a loss is a concern, such concerns are usually apparent and raised by the first 
representative of the insurer to visit the home. That didnt happen here, and the evidence 
gathered at that time sits in contrast with the idea of an unoccupied property. Im not 
persuaded Admiral can reasonably decline the claim; I think it needs to settle it.
claim settlement
This claim is now several years old. And there have already been discussions between the 
parties about fair settlement with clear disputes about what that might mean. The repairs 
were done long ago and its seems there is no further evidence to be gathered or considered. 
In order to fully resolve this complaint now Ive decided (albeit provisionally) that Admiral 
needs to reinstate this policy and settle the claim, so I also need to decide what Admiral 
must pay Mrs J.
Mr J2 has shown invoices exceeding £11,000. But hes told us that he paid around £10,000 
of the total sum, with Mrs J only paying the first invoices, totalling £762. That means that 
Mrs J has had an outlay for the claim of £762. I cant require Admiral to pay her sums for 
which she hasnt had any outlay, because it is only responsible for her losses, not those of 
others. Whilst Im aware of the debate about the extent of Admirals liability, I note it did 
agree it would have cost it £4,802.25 to do the work it accepted it was liable for. Therefore, 
Im minded to make Admiral pay Mrs J £762 being her costs which it accepts, the 
unoccupancy issue aside, it was liable for. To this it will have to add interest* from the date 
of loss until settlement is made.
In the event that Mr J2 shows Mrs J has re-paid him his outlay for the repairs, Id be minded 
to say Admiral should reimburse Mrs J. But only up to the value Admiral accepted liability for.
Mr J2 will likely think its unfair to cap the reimbursement at the value set by Admiral. 
However, in terms of claim losses it is up to the policyholder, or their representatives, to 
evidence that theyve more likely than not incurred that loss in line with what the policy offers 
cover for. Im not persuaded that has happened here. 
In saying that I note that whilst Mr J1 took photos on the day he found the water, and that 
Admiral sent an assessor to the property within a week, Mr J1 had, by that time, stripped 
away most of the damage. But I also note that the assessor set out clear reasoning as to 
why it was likely that the leak from the bath had not caused most of the damage claimed for 
in the kitchen, and I find his arguments persuasive. I havent seen anything from Mr J1 or 
Mr J2 that persuades me Mrs Js loss, on account of the leak from the bath, was in the 
amount claimed for, namely over £11,000.Mr J2 said he was unhappy about this aspect of my findings. I reviewed what he said and 
sent further findings to both parties. I said:
In response to my provisional findings, Mr J2 said he facilitated the payment for repairs but 
this was always considered to be a loan which Mrs J has since re-paid. He explained that 
her carer, who handles all her finances, had taken cash amounts in line with maximum 
withdrawals from Mrs Js weekly income and, over the course of the following year, 
reimbursed his outlay. An email was then received by our investigator from someone 
introducing himself as Mrs Js carer. The email said the carer gave Mr J2 between £100 and 
£200 a week from Mrs Js money, over a considerable period of time in order to pay back 
around £8,000 - £9,000. This evidence was sent to Admiral and it provided a brief reply 
stating this, in its view, was insufficient evidence to show money changing hands.
Ive reviewed the parties submissions and my provisional findings in light of this latest 
evidence. But Im not persuaded it would be reasonable for me to say Admiral should pay 
more than I provisionally suggested in settlement on the claim. In the circumstances here, 
particularly as were talking about a not insubstantial amount of money, I dont think sufficient 
and satisfactorily consistent evidence has been provided to show Mrs J has had a loss. 
I appreciate it may be difficult to show such a loss as Mrs J, according to Mr J 2, deals only 
in cash and via a carer. But I have to bear in mind that it is for Mrs J (and her 
representatives) to show a loss has been incurred by her, a loss by her cant fairly just be 
assumed. Im not currently minded to say Admiral must pay more to Mrs J for repairs than 
the £762 Id provisionally recommended.
Mr J2 remained unhappy. He said it was clear Mrs Js property had suffered damage which 
had to be repaired. With those repairs having to be paid for. He feels its unfair for Mrs J to 
not be reimbursed for this just because she took a loan from a family member to pay for the 
work. He said it seems there must be some hidden clause within the policy which requires 
the policyholder to pay a contractor directly for work. Mr J2 asked for a full explanation about 
this with references to the policy and relevant law being given. 
Mr J2 said he took on the work due to delays and a lack of communication by Admiral  but 
also because its scope was insufficient. Mr J2 says Admiral was informed work had started 
and didnt instruct him to stop. He says the dispute about other damage in the kitchen was 
always one contrived by Admiral and it was clear the second leak from the boxed in piping 
was in a different area of the kitchen  so it should never have limited the extent of repairs 
necessary for resolving damage caused by the bath leak. But to resolve the damage caused 
by the bath leak the whole kitchen would need replacing due to a lack of match. Mr J2 said 
he had never seen any breakdown by Admiral of the settlement it had offered.  
I note Mr J2 sent an email which he thinks evidences what happened in the run up to him 
arranging for Mrs Js home to be reinstated. But I note the email just records what Mr J2s 
understanding and recollection was at that time (which was February 2019) of events which 
had happened in October, November and early December 2018. So it shows he believed 
then the same as he does now  it doesnt show that belief accurately reflects what did 
occur. And Im mindful that all the contemporaneous evidence shows that, from the point the 
claim was made in October 2018, until 21 December 2018, Mr J1 was handling the claim, 
not Mr J2. And in that respect Im satisfied that Mr J1 discussed the damage with Admirals 
assessor, that Mr J1 told Admiral he had a contractor lined up to start work and that Admiral 
told him not to progress repairs because it was apparent that he felt more work was required 
than its assessor had accepted was necessary. But the works were progressed anyway. Im 
also satisfied that Admiral had good reason to think it wasnt liable for all of the damage in 
the kitchen. I know Mr J2 thinks its offer was insufficient and would like the opportunity to 
challenge its breakdown of costs. But with the work in the home having been done long ago, 
were beyond the point where I think considerations in that respect would add value to the complaint in hand. And in saying that Im also mindful that, as confirmed in my comments in 
my subsequent paragraph, Ive not been persuaded to require Admiral to pay Mrs J even the 
total of what it felt the repairs it had accepted as necessary would cost. 
Mrs Js property did suffer damage, and that has been repaired. But I think its still far from 
clear that Mrs J has, overall, suffered a financial loss as a result. Theres no policy term that 
requires Mrs J to only pay for repairs direct to a contractor. And if I had seen evidence, 
which I had felt was sufficiently compelling, of a loss to Mrs J, Id have had no hesitation in 
making Admiral reimburse her loss  or at least the portion of it I felt it was liable for. Ive 
acknowledged that it may have been difficult for Mrs J to now show what her loss was, but 
Ive also explained that it was always up to her and/or her representatives to show a loss. 
And, in this case, were talking about a financial outlay, of a not insignificant sum. In my view 
such cant reasonably be evidenced merely by written assurances, that are provided some 
three years after any loan would have been agreed, and given by those involved in the 
reported transactions, that money of Mrs Js was passed over in order to re-pay the loan. 
I maintain that a fair and reasonable settlement for this aspect of Mrs Js complaint is for 
Admiral to pay her £762 plus interest* from the date of loss until settlement is made. 
I concluded my provisional findings with a short review on compensation:
compensation
I note that Admiral has accepted that this claim wasnt handled appropriately and that this 
delayed it in making and providing its final answer. Ive also explained why I feel that answer, 
both in respect of the fraud and the decline of the claim, were unfair and unreasonable. In 
many cases Id expect such failures to cause a fair degree of upset to the policyholder. But 
here I havent seen anything that suggests Mrs J has been put to inconvenience or caused 
distress. Mr J1 and Mr J2 have dealt with everything on her behalf and, I think, from what 
Ive seen, have likely shielded her from the frustrating circumstances that have sometimes 
prevailed. I also note that Mr J2 organised repairs and paid for them himself, again this 
would have shielded Mrs J from any worry and inconvenience. On this occasion Im not 
minded to make Admiral pay Mrs J any compensation.
Mr J2 said that whilst Mrs J has been shielded form much of this, she still asks about what is 
happening and the on-going issue does upset her. 
I appreciate that Mrs J still asks about what is happening and I understand that she is, 
therefore, suffering some upset. However, I can only award compensation where Im 
satisfied that upset  beyond the frustrations sometimes experienced when dealing with 
financial businesses  is caused by a failure of the insurer. Here, whilst I think Admiral has 
failed Mrs J at times during this claim, Im not persuaded that its on-going nature is being 
caused by its failures.
Putting things right
I require Admiral to:
Remove any record (if such exists) of avoidance from its own and any industry database.
Remove the record of the fraud and policy cancellation from its own and any industry 
database.
Reinstate the policy, as directed above.
Pay Mrs J £762, plus interest* from the date of loss until settlement is made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and applied from the date of loss until settlement 
is made. If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mrs J, it should tell her how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mrs J a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman