DRN-3634632
The complaint
Mr A complained about BUPA Insurance Limiteds partial settlement of his private medical 
insurance claim and its service. 
What happened
Mr A has private medical insurance with BUPA. He complains that when he had treatment 
for cataracts the difference between his consultants fees and BUPAs fee structure resulted 
in BUPA only paying one sixth of the consultants fees. Mr A had to pay the shortfall. He  
says BUPA hasnt provided a proper explanation for not paying the full amount or supporting 
evidence of comparable fees it used to decide its fee structure. Hes also unhappy about 
BUPA not responding to his emails.
Mr A wanted BUPA to pay all his treatment costs and compensation for poor service.
BUPA said when Mr A called to pre-authorise his treatment claim it told him his chosen 
consultant wasnt fee-assured, what that meant and there would be a shortfall if he 
proceeded to see a consultant who hadnt agreed to BUPAs fee structure. It said its 
discussions around its fee structures for consultants and specialists are commercially 
sensitive so it wouldnt provide Mr A with the information he wanted about that. It had offered 
Mr A £75 compensation for not replying to his emails.
Our investigator thought BUPAs partial settlement of Mr As claim was fair and the £75 was 
reasonable compensation for Mr As distress and inconvenience in its delay in responding to 
his emails.
Mr A disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said he didnt want me to further 
consider his complaint about BUPAs lack of response to his emails, which he said he may 
raise in another forum. He did want me to consider BUPAs settlement of his claim. In 
summary he added that: 
He could reasonably expect the policy to cover the cost of local competent treatment.
BUPA couldnt show him where the policy terms said it was entitled to tell him to go 
to a remote location for treatment. 
BUPA saying that his consultant wasnt fee-assured wasnt a sufficient answer to it 
making a contribution of just one-sixth of the consultants fees. He understood all the 
local surgeons providing private cataract surgery charged the same as his 
consultant. He said that showed either there is something wrong with the consultants 
fees charged locally, or he thought more likely on the evidence hed provided, 
BUPAs fee structure was wrong. 
He suggested a method he thought would be a fairer way to calculate BUPAs 
contribution to the costs he claimed. He said BUPAs refusal to disclose its position 
around the fee structure and payments wouldnt be allowed if it was legally 
challenged and BUPA may be making a profit by acting in a way he thinks is 
unacceptable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BUPA told Mr A the information it uses to set approved consultants/specialists fees is 
commercially sensitive information, which I accept, so I dont think BUPA has to provide that 
information to Mr A. 
Ive considered all of Mr As comments about his concerns with how BUPA sets its fee 
structure and his suggestion of how BUPA should calculate its contribution to the costs he 
claimed. But, as our investigator explained, BUPAs decision to provide a policy with fee 
limits is a commercial decision. Its not within my remit to look into, or tell BUPA to change, 
the process of how it sets its fee structure nor to tell BUPA whether it should increase the 
amounts in its Consultant Fees Schedule.
I can look at whether BUPAs settlement of Mr As claim was within the policy terms and fair 
and reasonable. The industry rules and guidelines say that insurers should deal with claims 
promptly, fairly and they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy documents set out the terms of the contract of insurance between Mr A and 
BUPA.
Mr As Membership Certificate sets out the details of the cover he has chosen. Under the 
heading This is how we will pay your Treatment providers' Charges for Eligible Treatment it 
says:
If you see a Consultant, medical practitioner or healthcare professional who is 
recognised by us and does not charge within our benefit limits without prior approval 
from us, we will fund up to the limits in our Consultant Fees Schedule, which is part 
of the Schedule of Procedures found at bupa.co.uk/codes
Consultants other than Consultant anaesthetists
For Out-patient (other than consultations), Day-patient and In-patient Eligible 
Treatment: 
Fee-Assured Consultants - we pay their fees in full 
Consultants who are not Fee-Assured Consultants - we pay up to the limits in 
the Consultant Fees Schedule.
The policy defines Fee-Assured Consultant as:
a Consultant who, at the time you receive your Treatment, is recognised by us as a 
fee-assured consultant. You can contact us to find out if a Consultant is a fee-
assured consultant or use under.bupa.co.uk.
I think the policy documents are clear that if Mr A saw a consultant who wasnt fee-assured 
BUPA would only pay up to the limits in the Consultant Fees Schedule. The documents are 
also clear about how Mr A could find out if the consultant he wanted to use was fee-assured 
with BUPA.
BUPA was also clear in its January 2022 call with Mr A, which was before he had the 
treatment, that the consultant hed chosen wasnt fee-assured and the amount it would pay. 
So Mr A knew before he started the treatment that there would be a shortfall if he was 
treated by the consultant he wanted to see who hadnt agreed to BUPAs fee structure.
Mr A has emphasised that his preferred consultant was local to him and BUPAs said the 
nearest providers it would have guided him to were 45 to 60 minutes away. BUPA 
acknowledged to Mr A there were limited specialists in his local area. But it said it couldnt  
guarantee to each policyholder that a fee-assured consultant will be local to them and it 
didnt guarantee each member will always have access to a specialist of their choice close to 
them. Ive seen that BUPA did direct Mr A to the following policy wording:Please note that we cannot guarantee the availability of any facility, practitioner or 
Treatment. 
So I think the poilcy was clear that BUPA couldnt guarantee Mr A would be able to have 
fully covered treatment locally.
BUPA didnt say Mr A had to go to a remote location for treatment. It said if he had treatment 
with a consultant who wasnt fee-assured (whether local or not) then, as set out in the policy 
terms, BUPA would only pay the fee limits in the Consultant Fees Schedule. 
Im satisfied that BUPAs partial settlement of the claim was in line with the policy terms and 
fair and reasonable.
Mr A asked that I didnt consider whether BUPAs offer of £75 compensation for its delay in 
responding to his emails was a reasonable amount, so I havent considered that matter.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman