DRN-3147951
The complaint
Mr S is a sole trader. He complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly declined his 
application for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr S was an existing personal customer of Barclays and approached the bank for a Bounce 
Back Loan. Barclays declined Mr Ss request as it wasnt satisfied he met the Bounce Back 
Loan Scheme eligibility criteria. 
Mr S says Barclays decision was unfair and in contradiction of the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme rules, which were set by the British Business Bank. He says that Barclays wasnt 
entitled to conduct the level of checks it did when reaching his decision and should instead 
have relied on his self-declaration. That notwithstanding, he says he co-operated with the 
banks requests for information and provided sufficient evidence of his eligibility. He also 
says that the application process was too long.
Barclays says that it couldnt evidence that Mr S was trading before 1 March 2020 as 
required by the Loan Scheme eligibility criteria, so it was unable to proceed with Mr Ss 
request. 
Mr S asked us to look into things and his complaint was reviewed by one of our 
investigators. She didnt think that Barclays had done anything wrong. She said, in summary, 
that: 
While loans provided under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme were backed by a 
guarantee from the government, the decision to lend still rested with the lender. In 
making that decision, they were required to carry out certain checks, including fraud, 
anti-money laundering and Know Your Customer checks. 
Although Mr S already held a personal account with Barclays, it was reasonable for 
the bank to have carried out these checks. This was specifically allowed for under the 
rules of the Loan Scheme and set out on the British Business Banks website.
Barclays checks legitimately extended to Mr Ss eligibility for the loan. This wasnt 
prohibited under the Loan Scheme rules and the bank wasnt obliged to accept 
Mr Ss self-declaration without question. This was in keeping with the banks 
obligations to prevent misuse of the Scheme.
When carrying out its checks, Barclays couldnt see that Mr S had been trading prior 
to 1 March 2020. So it hadnt done anything wrong in declining his application.
Having reviewed the timeline of Mr Ss application, there werent any unnecessary 
delays as Barclays had made legitimate requests for information and had then 
needed to review it on receipt. 
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view. In summary, he reiterated his belief that Barclays 
hadnt been entitled to carry out the checks that it had but that he had evidenced his 
eligibility anyway  so the bank had no basis on which to have fairly declined his application. 
He asked that an ombudsman review the complaint, and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for much the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. In doing so, I wont comment on each and every point Mr S 
has raised  which I hope he wont take as discourteous. Rather, my findings will focus on 
the matters which I consider most relevant to how Ive reached my decision. 
There is no dispute about the eligibility criteria for a Bounce Back Loan, which included 
 amongst other things  that the applicant was carrying on business on 1 March 2020. 
Rather, Mr Ss complaint focuses on Barclays entitlement to verify that he met this 
criterion  and whether the decision it reached on this was reasonable.
The banks entitlement to verify an applicants eligibility for a Bounce Back Loan
I understand from Mr Ss response that he accepts a lenders entitlement to conduct fraud, 
anti-money laundering and Know Your Customer (KYC) checks, but he doesnt think that 
any of these extended to what Barclays did here in checking whether he met the Loan 
Schemes eligibility criteria. 
Mr S bases this view on the information available within the Frequently Asked Questions 
section of the British Business Banks website. But this isnt exhaustive or definitive  it is a 
summary of key information, primarily for the benefit of an applicant. So it doesnt include all 
the rules and requirements that applied to lenders. While the Bounce Back Loan application 
process did differ from that for a traditional loan, I dont agree that the rules of the Scheme 
prevented Barclays from conducting the checks it did here. 
Under any of the three checks set out above, I think it would be reasonable for the lender to 
verify the information given by an applicant about their business. Such information could 
inform a KYC check or be part of a lenders legitimate efforts to combat money laundering 
and fraud. 
Even if I were to accept Mr Ss suggestion that the verification of an applicants self-declared 
eligibility doesnt fall within the scope of these three necessary checks, I still dont think it 
was unreasonable for Barclays to take additional measures to prevent fraudulent 
applications. Such measures were not excluded by the Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules. 
For these reasons, I think the verification of an applicants trading status was reasonable.
The banks assessment of Mr Ss trading status and eligibility
As Ive found that Barclays was entitled to carry out the checks that it did, Ive gone on to 
consider whether its decision to decline Mr Ss application was reasonable.
Mr Ss business was established prior to 1 March 2020, but this alone wasnt sufficient to 
meet the Bounce Back Loan Scheme eligibility criteria  the applicant also had to be trading 
before this date. Barclays wasnt satisfied that Mr S met this criterion and, having reviewed the information 
that Mr S provided, I think its decision was reasonable. I say this because:
As Mr S wasnt running his business through his Barclays personal account, the bank 
had little evidence of his trading activity on its own systems. It asked him to provide 
statements of the account he was trading through, but these dont clearly show any 
business transactions or anything that might readily be identified as trading activity 
over the relevant period (i.e. prior to 1 March 2020).
Mr S provided some invoices, but these were issued in September and October 2020 
and so dont demonstrate that Mr S was trading prior to 1 March 2020.
Barclays invited Mr S to provide a utility bill, lease or rental agreement and/or a 
business insurance contract in the name of his business, but he was unable to 
provide these. He only had a utility bill in the his and his wifes name. While I 
appreciate why Mr S may not have been able to produce anything else, it 
nevertheless remained difficult for Barclays to evidence his eligibility as a result.
Barclays considered the other evidence that Mr S provided, including HMRC 
documentation, registration with the Federation of Small Businesses (FSB) and a 
business plan, but these didnt show that the business was trading before 1 March 
2020  and I think this view was reasonable. Mr S submitted a tax return that showed 
a turnover of £5,000 in the tax year 6 April 2019 to 5 April 2020, but its not clear 
when this money was earned. It could have been the result of trading activity prior to 
1 March 2020, but it could just as easily have been earned after that date. Given 
Mr Ss business was only established in February 2020, this makes it more likely that 
the income was earned after 1 March 2020. The FSB registration and business plan 
do nothing to confirm the position either way.
So although I can understand why Mr S mightve found it difficult to evidence that he met the 
eligibility criteria, I dont think that Barclays enquiries  or the decision it reached in light of 
the evidence he provided  were unreasonable. It follows that I think it was reasonable for 
the bank to decline his Bounce Back Loan application.
The application process
Mr S also says that while the application process was supposed to be short and simple  
including the application form itself  Barclays process was long and drawn out. 
With regard to the application form, lenders were required to obtain certain information from 
applications under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules. From what Ive seen of the banks 
processes, it was in line with those requirements. 
I can see that it did take longer than Mr S might have reasonably expected to get Barclays 
final answer on his application. He approached the bank in June and got its decision in 
October. But some of this delay was legitimate  being the result of the further enquiries that 
the bank raised with Mr S and the time taken to receive and review his responses. 
I also think its fair to bear in mind the unprecedented circumstances of the time, during 
which Barclays was dealing with huge demand for loans under the Scheme and dealing with 
the wider impact of the pandemic. And the delay hasnt had a material impact on Mr Ss 
position, as ultimately he was declined for the loan and had sufficient time to apply 
elsewhere once he had the banks decision.So while I dont doubt that the process was more stressful and time-consuming than Mr S 
might have anticipated, I dont think that this was down to an error or any unreasonableness 
on the banks part.
Ive also noted Mr Ss initial unhappiness at Barclays apparent suggestion that he would 
need a business current account in order to proceed with the loan application. But the bank 
later clarified that this was not a requirement for the loan  and I dont think this affected 
things here, as the application was ultimately not successful anyway. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman