DRN-3289109
The complaint
Mr K has complained about the way Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited 
(HLAM) communicated the details of a corporate action he was interested in. Hes said 
HLAM didnt make it clear that limits would apply to the final distribution of shares. He feels 
he was deliberately mis-lead and as a result he has lost out financially.
What happened
HLAM provided Mr K with the platform he invested. HLAM didnt provide any advice to Mr K 
at any time.
On 10 February 2021 HLAM wrote to Mr K to inform him of a merger between two 
companies, one of which Mr K already held loan notes in. The merger was to create a new 
business called Harbour Energy Plc.
The letter presented Mr K with three options:
1. Do nothing and receive a mixture of cash and Harbour Energy shares in place of his 
existing notes;
2. Receive all cash in place of the notes; or
3. Buy more Harbour Energy shares.
Mr K chose option three and requested to buy 625,000 shares in Harbour Energy. Upon 
completion just after 29 March 2021 he received only 6,400 shares. When Mr K questioned 
this HLAM told him that the corporate action had been oversubscribed so the amount of 
shares available had to be scaled down.
Mr K was unhappy with this response and so referred his complaint to this Service. He 
explained that HLAM should have been clear in setting out in its share offer that the 
allocation of shares would be capped and in not doing so HLAM had been negligent. He also 
felt that it should have been communicated that there would be a clear limit to the number of 
shares he could have applied for. He also said that he wasnt informed until the final 
settlement that he had exceeded the hidden cap which gave them an unfair advantage.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt be upheld. He 
was satisfied that the wording of the letter from HLAM in February was sufficiently clear so 
Mr K should have known he may not get all the shares he had requested.
Mr K didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view HLAM had purposely mis- 
led him for its own benefit.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
In making my decision I must look at whether Mr K should have reasonably known there was 
a possibility he wouldnt receive all the shares he had requested. 
I have looked at the letter HLAM sent to Mr K in February 2021 informing him of the 
corporate action. Under the option three, which Mr K chose, it says:
If you take the default mixed cash and shares you have the option to buy additional Harbour 
Energy Shares at a price of XXX USD. There are a limited number of shares available so 
you may not receive all the shares you apply for
I agree it doesnt say anything about the shares being capped but it does say the number of 
shares are limited which in my view is enough to have put Mr K on notice this could be a 
possibility. I appreciate it also doesnt say anything about oversubscription being a factor in 
whether the full amount of shares requested would be transferred, but I dont think it needed 
to. It made it clear that due to the limited number of shares the amount requested may not 
be received. Which is ultimately what happened.
While Mr K feels HLAM should have told him earlier this was a possibility and that the final 
number of shares allotted would depend on the amount  of notes he already held, this 
wouldnt have been something HLAM would have known at the time the corporate action 
was first introduced. This situation only came about because the corporate action was 
oversubscribed which couldnt have been foreseen at the time of launching it in February 
2021.
Furthermore,  HLAM didnt have any control over this situation nor did it play a part in 
making the decision to scale the offer back  this was a decision  that could be made only by 
the company who was offering the shares so I cant see how HLAM could have informed 
Mr K earlier than it did about the reduction in shares. 
Overall therefore, while I can appreciate Mr Ks frustration I am satisfied that HLAM didnt 
mislead him when offering the corporate action. And what resulted in him receiving less 
shares than he wanted was due to events outside of the control of HLAM.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman