DRN-2278018
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complaint that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) hasnt handled their 
claim well which has led to delays and inconvenience. They also say Fairmead hasnt made 
them a fair settlement offer.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D reported water damage to their bathroom floor and walls to Fairmead in early 
June 2019. Fairmead agreed to look at the claim, and sent an assessor out to look at the 
damage. This turned out to be fairly extensive  and the first assessor said he couldnt deal 
with the claim, so Fairmead agreed to appoint a different assessor. It took just over five 
weeks to get a second visit arranged. Eventually the leak was traced to a faulty valve under 
a bath.
Mr and Mrs D sent Fairmead their own assessment of the costs of repairing the damage, as 
they had said they wanted a cash settlement. Fairmead said the costs were very high  and 
included a substantial amount of work on areas of the property not damaged by the water 
leak. The assessment also included an allowance for alternate accommodation, storage 
costs and additional electricity used to dry the property.
In its final response letter Fairmead said it would pay for some of the damage, the electricity 
and offered a disturbance allowance of £1,260. It also offered £300 to make up for the 
delays in handling the claim.
Mr and Mrs D complained that this wasnt enough  in particular that they have continuous 
flooring throughout their ground floor, and it all needed replacing as the tile they originally 
laid was no longer available.
Fairmead said it wouldnt contribute to any additional flooring costs as it didnt believe the 
flooring was continuous.  
Mr and Mrs D had brought their complaint to us when it was only about the delays theyd 
experienced. Theyve since asked that we look at the amount of the settlement within this 
complaint  and Fairmead sent us its thoughts on this as described above.
Our investigator thought the £300 offered for the way Fairmead had handled the complaint 
was reasonable. But he didnt think the settlement offer went far enough. He didnt think 
there was a break in the flooring  it was simply tiling laid at a different angle to 
accommodate the way the rooms ran into each other. He thought it was clear the flooring 
was meant to be continuous, and that Mr and Mrs D  if they could no longer get the original 
tiles  would suffer a loss of match. He recommended Fairmead contribute 50% of the 
costs of any additional flooring that would be required to restore the match.
Fairmead said it agreed this in principle. Mr and Mrs D asked if the 50% also applied to their 
claim for alternate accommodation. Our investigator explained that, as they had indicated 
they wanted a cash settlement, the decision on actually completing the work rested with 
them  so it wouldnt be appropriate to ask Fairmead to cover any additional costs.
Mr and Mrs D have asked that an ombudsman decide their complaint  although they 
havent said specifically which parts of the offer from Fairmead they remain unhappy about.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill comment on each part of this complaint, separately.
Delays
There were delays in dealing with this claim. Some of them appear to have been because 
the value of the claim turned out to be much higher than at first thought. But some if not most 
were because Fairmead delayed arranging for a second contractor to visit to assess the 
damage. And it took Fairmead a long time to make a settlement offer, even if it did have to 
review the estimated costs sent in by Mr and Mrs D. Mr and Mrs D have told me about the 
inconvenience this has caused. Taking everything into account Im satisfied £300 is 
reasonable compensation for this.
The claim
The purpose of a home insurance policy is to put a customer in the same position theyd 
have been in if the damage hadnt occurred. But the payment of a claim is still subject to the 
terms and conditions of the insurance policy  which describes the circumstances in which 
an insurer will meet a claim and any limitations to the amount it pays. In Mr and Mrs Ds 
circumstances Fairmead has offered to pay to repair the damage the water caused. It says 
Mr and Mrs Ds claim for a cash settlement included amounts for things not covered by the 
policy  including replacing undamaged flooring.
Mr and Mrs Ds policy says Fairmead need not pay to replace items that werent damaged if 
one or more parts of a set is damaged. But this service takes the view that  if replacement 
items cant be found that match the undamaged items (in this case the floor tiles) there is 
going to be a loss of match. And, to make up for this we normally ask an insurer to 
compensate the customer for this by paying out an amount equivalent to 50% of the cost of 
replacing undamaged items. Its then for a consumer to decide whether they replace the 
undamaged items  or live with the loss of match.
Fairmead didnt think it needed to pay for loss of match because it said the flooring in two 
adjacent rooms wasnt continuous. It said that was because there was clearly a difference in 
how the tiles were laid in the two rooms. Our investigator thought the flooring was 
continuous: the same tiles were used, albeit at a different angle  and there was no 
delineation between the two rooms other than a standard width grout line. I agree with our 
investigator on this point  I think the photos show that Mr and Mrs D had matching flooring 
throughout.
That means I think its fair for Fairmead to pay compensation equivalent to 50% of the cost 
of replacing the undamaged floor. Fairmead has agreed it will do this, and Id expect it to 
calculate the compensation using the same cost rates it uses to replace the relevant 
damaged floor.
Mr and Mrs D have asked if this compensation means they should also get 50% of any 
applicable alternate accommodation allowance. I dont think it would be appropriate to ask 
Fairmead to pay any more than its agreed to pay. I say this because Fairmead is compensating Mr and Mrs D for the loss of match, and we 
simply use the expected potential costs as a basis for calculating the amount it should pay. 
The choice of whether to replace the undamaged flooring lies with Mr and Mrs D. If they 
choose to replace the undamaged floors then any additional disruption will be because they 
chose to do the work, and that isnt something Fairmead need compensate them for.
Other points
Mr and Mrs D indicated that they were unhappy with Fairmeads overall settlement offer, so 
for the sake of completeness Ill comment on the rest of the offer, although they havent been 
raised specifically in the request for this decision.
Mr and Mrs Ds claim for a cash settlement asked that Fairmead pay £9,000 for alternate 
accommodation. Fairmead has instead offered a disturbance allowance (£1,260) for the 
inconvenience they might suffer whilst the originally agreed work is being done and some 
rooms cant be used. I havent seen any evidence that suggests Mr and Mrs D havent been 
able to live in their home as a result of the leak, so it seems to me the offer is reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs D also asked Fairmead to pay some storage costs, although not why these were 
necessary. I havent seen anything that shows me offsite storage is required, so I dont think 
its appropriate to aske Fairmead to pay for this.
Fairmead says it will pay for additional electricity used whilst the property was being dried. I 
think thats fair, if Mr and Mrs D provide some evidence showing how much extra theyve 
had to pay.
Putting things right
Fairmead should put things right by meeting the claim, if it hasnt already done so. It should 
also pay compensation for both the loss of match and the delays it caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint.  Fairmead Insurance Limited should now:
Meet the claim if it hasnt already done so
Pay compensation for loss of match equivalent to 50% of the cost of replacing the 
matching undamaged floors
Pay £300 compensation for the way it dealt with the claim
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2021. 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman