DRN-2059225
The complaint
Mr B complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) caused delays to his loan 
application. Hes also unhappy about the poor customer service he received.
What happened
On 19 May 2019 Mr B carried out soft searches to see if hed be accepted for a loan. The 
search results showed he had a high chance of being accepted for a loan and based on this, 
he put a small deposit towards a car. And on the same day (19 May) he applied for the loan 
with Sainsburys which was approved. As he was expecting the loan payment the next 
working day, he decided to pay a bigger deposit towards the car and agreed with the 
dealership to pay the balance by 25 May. 
But during a call with Sainsburys, again on 19 May, Mr B was told that due to a system error 
it couldnt accept his digital signature. Instead he was required to send the signed agreement 
by post. The funds were paid into Mr Bs account on 31 May. 
Mr B complained to Sainsburys. He said because the loan wasnt paid when expected, he 
borrowed from family and friends, as well as used savings, to pay the balance on the car. He 
said this caused him financial loss and put him in a stressful position having to ask friends 
and family for money. He was also unhappy that Sainsburys didnt reply to some of his 
emails and only asked for a bank statement after hed sent his signed agreement by post.
Whilst Sainsburys paid Mr B £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by a system 
error, it didnt agree it could be held responsible for the deposit he paid on a car before he 
received the loan payment. Unhappy with Sainsburys response, Mr B referred the matter to 
our service as he didnt think the compensation was sufficient.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. In brief, as Mr B was still able to pay for the 
car, he didnt think there was any financial loss. He considered the £100 already paid for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the system error, was fair. Mr B disagreed and asked 
for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my findings, I think its important to make clear that while I accept Mr B may 
want answers to every question hes asked, Im not required to provide answers to 
everything. No discourtesy is intended by this. It just reflects the informal nature of our 
service. I will instead focus my decision on what I think are the key issues. Further, where 
there's a dispute about what happened, I've based my decision on what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the evidence.
Mr B put a small deposit on the car after he received the results following a soft search, 
which does suggest he was already committed to purchasing the car. But Mr B says it was 
only when he received the message from Sainsburys saying, Your account will be opened 
and money sent to your bank account on the next bank working day, that he put down a 
bigger deposit and agreed a purchase date of 25 May. But this message also said that 
your account details will also show here when your account is opened. 
In my view, whilst Mr Bs loan had been approved, the (loan) account hadnt yet been 
opened. And it was only after this that Mr B could expect the funds to be paid into his bank 
account by the next bank working day. Further, I can see before the loan account could be 
opened, Sainsburys told Mr B in its letter dated 19 May that Once we have everything we 
need from you and all the checks have been approved, we will send the money to your 
account. So while I think its unfortunate that Mr B decided to proceed with his plans to buy 
his car before being notified his account had been opened, I cant fairly hold Sainsburys 
responsible for the losses he said he suffered. In any event, as the investigator said, as he 
was able to fund the car by other means, any losses were mitigated by these actions.
Mr B said given the urgency, Sainsburys shouldve accepted his request to send the signed 
application by email, or by priority post. He also suggested Sainsburys shouldve closed its 
online process once it knew of its systems error. But how Sainsburys processes its loan 
applications is a matter for it to decide within the exercise of its legitimate commercial 
judgment. On the one hand, it didnt think email was secure enough and on the other, its 
process meant it wasnt practical to send letters by any other means than standard post. I 
dont think this was unreasonable. 
Nonetheless, I understand Mr B found the process stressful. Clearly completing matters by 
post did mean there was longer to wait for the funds. I can also see he was asked for bank 
statements on 29 May when he hadnt been asked for this before, and Sainsburys didnt 
respond to some of his emails. But I need to balance this with the fact that Sainsburys did 
agree to proceed without the requested bank statements and did reply to his emails raising 
concerns within the relevant eight-week period. I also see that once Mr Bs signed 
agreement was received on 28 May, the loan payment was made within three days. Overall, 
I think £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, is fair.
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome, I dont 
consider it fair to require Sainsburys to pay any more compensation than its already paid.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint as I consider the £100 Sainsburys Bank Plc has already paid 
Mr B, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman