DRN-3033825
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy because Starling Bank Limited did not reimburse the money she 
transferred to a fraudster.  
Background
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that in February 2020, Miss H was contacted by a 
fraudster pretending to be from HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC). Miss H was told by the 
fraudster that she was being accused of tax fraud spanning several years and owed tax 
totalling £1,600. She was also told there were four criminal allegations against her name. 
During the call, which Miss H says lasted around two hours, she was told that if she ended 
the call at any point it would be considered an admission of guilt.
Miss H says her parents have often sent her money in the past, particularly while she was at 
university, and she had wondered previously whether she was supposed to pay tax on these 
payments. Miss H has also said that within her job sector, she has quite a niche role and had 
also changed department  which led her to believe it was possible shed been given the 
wrong tax code. Therefore when receiving the call, she panicked, thinking a genuine mistake 
had been made. She says she also questioned with the fraudster how she can be sure the 
call was genuine, and was directed to the HMRC website and shown where to locate a 
phone number that matched the one that shed been called on. Miss H says she was 
unaware that it was possible to spoof phone numbers, so at this point found it difficult to 
question what she was being told.
Miss H offered to pay the charges up front, but was told by the fraudster its not about the 
money now. Miss H says its only when she started crying that she was transferred to 
someone senior who agreed on this occasion to let her pay the fees up front. The fraudster 
initially told her she could visit her local branch, withdraw the funds and place them in a tax 
deposit box held at the bank. However the fraudster then researched Miss Hs local bank 
and advised it was closed. They therefore said they would email the criminal justice 
services to see if an online transaction would be accepted, which they agreed to.
Miss H paid some of the £1,600 owed from another of her banking providers online, but due 
to a daily transfer limit for new payees on this account, couldnt send the funds in their 
entirety. She therefore transferred the outstanding balance of £915 to her Starling Bank 
account and from here, transferred the funds on to the fraudster via online banking. 
Miss H was then told that in order to remove her name from the court hearing, she would 
need to pay an additional £1,200, which would be refunded if it transpired that the hearing 
was an error on HMRCs part. Miss H sent a further two payments of £450 and £750 to 
cover this charge and was provided with receipts bearing the HMRC logo, as well as 
screenshots of a HMRC tax refund portal that suggested her refund was pending.
When the call with the fraudster ended, Miss H called her mother, who contacted an 
accountant for their opinion. Miss H then called her partner, who advised that he was aware 
of a scam of this nature. Realising shed been the victim of a scam, Miss H got in touch with 
Starling Bank the same day to raise a claim.
Starling Bank is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims 
of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  Starling Bank says one 
or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Starling Bank has said Miss H made the payment without having a reasonable basis for 
believing it was a genuine payment. Starling Bank considers that Miss H ought to have done 
more to verify the legitimacy of the payment before making it. It said Miss H took no steps to 
verify it was actually HMRC she was speaking to on the phone.
Starling Bank also said Miss H ignored an effective warning it provided when Miss H made 
the payment to the fraudster. The warning read as follows:
Could this payee be part of a scam? 
If in doubt, just stop here and visit our website to learn more about avoiding fraud
The above warning included a link to Starling Banks website. Starlings website then 
contains the following:
HMRC/law enforcement scams
If you receive a call out of the blue from someone claiming to be from HMRC or law 
enforcement and they advise that you have an outstanding bill/fine to pay, or that your 
assistance is required with a police case, please be cautious as this may be a scam. You 
may be pressured into making a quick decision, threatened with legal action, sent official-
looking documents or be told not to tell anyone about the call. If youre ever approached in 
this way, hang up the phone and attempt to call back on a number found on a trusted 
website to confirm if the call is legitimate. In the event that you received the call on a 
landline, make sure you call back from a different device as fraudsters may keep the line
open.
Miss H feels she should be refunded and so has referred her complaint to us. An investigator 
looked into Miss Hs complaint and thought she did have a reasonable basis for believing 
this was a legitimate payment. He also didnt consider the warning Starling Bank had relied 
on was effective under the Code. As Starling Bank disagreed with the investigators opinion, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Starling Bank should have refunded the money 
Miss H lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement 
apply in the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances Starling Bank should fairly and reasonably refund the money 
Miss H lost.
The money was taken from Miss Hs current account. It is not clear how Miss H 
would have used the money if Starling Bank had refunded it when it should have done, so Starling Bank should also pay interest on the money it should have 
refunded at 8% simple per year from the date Starling Bank decided not to refund 
Miss H under the CRM Code to the date of payment.
I have carefully considered Starling Banks representations about the warning it gave and 
whether Miss H had a reasonable basis for believing the transactions to be genuine. But 
they do not persuade me to reach a different view.  In particular I am not persuaded that 
Miss H failed to take the requisite level of care required for Starling Bank to choose not to 
reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
In this case Im satisfied that Starling Bank didnt provide an effective warning. I appreciate 
the information provided on Starling Banks website is fairly comprehensive and does 
specifically cover HMRC scams. However in order for a customer to see this, they would 
need to click the link provided by Starling Bank in its briefer warning presented during the 
payment journey. A customer would need to think they were being scammed or have some 
doubt for the warning to be impactful. The reality is in lots of cases customers dont have any 
doubt and dont think theyre being scammed, so the question is unlikely to grab their 
attention in the way thats intended.
In any event, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, Miss H had tried to verify the 
identity of the caller before proceeding with the payment and had been directed to HMRCs 
website, where the spoofed number she was being called on was displayed. 
Starling Banks warning about HMRC scams doesnt refer to number spoofing  in fact its 
advice to customers if theyre unsure is to call back on a number found on a trusted 
website. Miss H had already checked the number on a trusted website, as advised by the 
fraudster, and it matched  so in the circumstances, without being alive to the possibility of 
number spoofing, I can understand why Miss H wouldnt consider it beneficial to end the call 
she was on, only to call the same number back. I therefore dont think the warning was 
impactful enough in her circumstances, or that the advised actions were clear enough for 
Starling Banks warning to be considered effective under the Code.
Im also satisfied that Starling Bank has not shown that Miss H lacked a reasonable basis of 
belief because:
Miss Hs personal circumstances led her to believe there was a possibility she hadnt 
paid the correct amount of tax  making the basis of the scam more believable.
Miss H has explained the fraudsters gave the impression that they wouldnt accept 
payment from her  that it was too late to do so, and only accepting Miss Hs offer 
when she was in tears. I can understand why Miss H wouldnt expect this to be a 
scam when she was actively trying to make a payment and being initially refused. 
Miss H was clearly upset and frightened by the scam. This was of course the 
intention of the fraudsters  to disrupt Miss Hs thought process with fear. Its 
important to consider the actions Miss H took against this backdrop.
As mentioned, Miss H did initially attempt to verify the caller, but was directed to 
HMRCs website where the telephone number provided matched the one she was 
being called on. I can understand why, in the absence of any warning about number 
spoofing, this wouldve been compelling evidence for Miss H that she was talking to a 
member of HMRC.
Miss H has said she was on the phone to the fraudsters for around two hours, during 
which she was also being sent emails from the fraudsters with information on the 
criminal charges against her. This is all against a backdrop of her being told if she ended the call, it would be considered an admission of guilt. I can understand why, 
under this level of pressure, the information Miss H was being given seemed realistic.
So in summary, Im not persuaded that Starling Bank has shown that Miss H lacked a 
reasonable basis of belief for making the transaction in question, or that it provided her with 
an effective warning before making the payment. Starling Bank should therefore refund the 
funds Miss H lost to the fraudster. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Hs complaint against 
Starling Bank Limited. I require Starling Bank Limited to:
Refund Miss H the £2,115 she lost to the scam
Pay 8% simple interest, from the date Starling Bank declined Miss Hs claim under 
the CRM Code to the date of settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman