DRN-3301137
The complaint
Miss K complains that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax (BoS) didnt do enough to help 
when she was the victim of an investment / trading scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. 
In June 2020 there was a series of debit card payments from Miss Ks BoS account which 
she says were made as the result of a scam. The payments were spread across around 
three weeks and totalled around £5,500. At the time Miss K believed she was dealing with a 
legitimate investment company M. She was in regular contact with M discussing the 
progress of her trades. Ultimately, when Miss K wasnt able to make a withdrawal from her 
account with M she realised shed likely been the victim of a scam and reported this to BoS. 
She asked that they help her get her money back. 
BoS said that as the payments Miss K had made, went to legitimate crypto-currency 
exchanges (E and X), they werent able to assist. This was because the merchants had 
provided the service asked of them. Miss K complained and when BoS maintained their 
position, the matter was referred to our service. 
One of our Senior Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. 
Ultimately he concluded that Miss K had authorised the payments and there was no basis 
upon which BoS ought to have intervened at the time. And he also didnt think what BoS had 
said about a chargeback was unfair or unreasonable. As she disagrees, Miss K has asked 
for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to our Investigators view, Miss K has said that all the payments made on her 
debit card were unauthorised. That is that she didnt consent to them and that they were 
done by M whom she had given access to her computer via screen sharing software. 
Ive considered this, but Im more persuaded by some of the other evidence on file. In 
Miss Ks initial submissions to our service she said: I invested a total of £5,500 as displayed 
on bank statements These funds were then withdrawn without my acknowledgement 
Im more persuaded by this evidence than by what Miss K said in response to the view. 
There is also evidence in the form of a chat history between Miss K and M in which she says 
Hey, the funds have been deposited. This doesnt suggest that Miss K was unaware of the 
payments being made on her debit card.  
I think its most likely that Miss K knew payments were being made on her debit card to the 
crypto-currency exchanges. I accept she may then have been tricked or that the onward 
movement of the crypto-currency (from X and E) may have been unauthorised. But that isnt 
something that BoS has any responsibility for. 
As Ive concluded these were authorised transactions, Miss K is presumed liable in the first 
instance. There is obviously a balance to be struck between being alert to fraud and scams 
and allowing customers to freely spend their money. Ive carefully considered whether there 
were any reasons why BoS ought to have intervened in the payments at the times they were 
made. But Im not persuaded there is a reasonable basis upon which I could have expected 
them to have done so. The payments werent so unusual that I think this was a reasonable 
expectation. As such, I dont think BoS reasonably ought to have stopped the payments from 
being made. 
Once Miss K reported that she believed shed been scammed, the only potential avenue for 
BoS to have returned the payments was through the card operators (Visa in this case) 
chargeback scheme. A chargeback can only be made against the merchant that received 
the funds. So whilst Miss K may have been dealing with M, she didnt directly pay M. She 
paid both X and E who then passed on the crypto-currency to where they were instructed to. 
As such, I think what BoS said about a chargeback was fair and reasonable. Id only expect 
a business to raise a chargeback where there is a reasonable chance of it succeeding. And 
here, its more likely than not that X and E would have evidenced that theyd converted funds 
to crypto-currency and had passed it on to the wallet addresses requested. And as there 
was no likely prospect of such a chargeback claim succeeding, I think it was fair that BoS 
didnt pursue this further. 
Im of course sorry to hear that Miss K lost money in this way. But I dont think this is 
something BoS reasonably could have prevented, or that they should have done more to try 
to recover her funds. And as such, I cant fairly tell them to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman