DRN-2764180
The complaint
 Mr L complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to notify him of a fall in interest rate
on his ISA account, which meant he lost out on interest. 
What happened
 In May 2020, after base rate cuts by the Bank of England, Nationwide reduced the interest
rates it was paying on some of its savings accounts. Mr L received letters in early April 2020,
saying that the interest rates on two of his savings accounts with Nationwide were going to
drop. These rate drops were set to take place on 1 May 2020, and the letters were sent out
around 30 days before this.
At this point, Mr L checked the rate on a third Nationwide account he held and decided to
move his savings into this account as the rate remained higher. He began moving money
into this ISA account on 23 April 2020, and between 1 May and 7 May 2020, moved the bulk
of the funds into this account.
On 15 May 2020, Nationwide dropped the rate on this ISA account from 1% to 0.01%. Mr L
noticed this on internet banking, and on 16 May 2020 he contacted Nationwide to complain
that he hadnt been told the rate was going to drop on this account. On 18 May 2020, Mr L
moved all the funds out of the ISA account.
One of our investigators has investigated Mr Ls complaint and did not uphold it. The
investigator felt that on balance, it was most likely that Nationwide had sent a notification
letter to Mr L about the rate drop.
The investigator also felt that even if Nationwide had not sent the letter, they had still acted
fairly because at the time they say they would have sent the letter, Mr L had less than £100
in the ISA account. The regulations would mean that Nationwide would not have needed to
send the notification letter in these circumstances. 
Mr L did not agree with this view and asked for an Ombudsman to review his case.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 February 2021. My provisional findings were as follows:
At this stage, I do not agree with the Investigators decision. After further questioning of
Nationwide, I dont think they have done enough here, and I will explain my reasoning below,
as well as outlining what I think they should potentially do to put it right.
Nationwide told Mr L and our service that they sent a notification letter to Mr L. They
provided evidence of the template used but said they could not provide evidence of the
specific letter sent to Mr L, as they dont keep this information. They said this letter was sent
to all customers who held this ISA account. Mr L said he did not receive a letter, and this
makes the rate drop unfair as he was not given notification of it.
The fact this letter to Mr L could not be provided by Nationwide did not concern me. It is fairly
common amongst banks and building societies for template letters to be sent out to lists of
customers, without a copy of each separate customer letter being stored. This is what
Nationwide have said had happened here. I understand why Mr L was frustrated by this
response; he felt that Nationwide were not being truthful, to hide the fact that they didnt
notify him of the rate change.
The regulations that apply are the Financial Conduct Authoritys Banking Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (BCOBS). These mean that Nationwide must show the correct rate for
the account on their website and internet banking if applicable. This happened, and Mr L
noticed the rate had changed within 24 hours.
The BCOBS regulations also state that if it is a material change to the interest rate, they
must notify customers. The rule states:
the firm should provide reasonable notice to the banking customer on paper or in another
durable medium before the change takes effect, taking into account the period of notice
required by the banking customer to terminate the contract for the retail banking service. A
change to a rate of interest should always be considered material except where the balance
of the account is less than £100 at the time when the firm would provide the notice.
Nationwide notified Mr L on his other accounts around 30 days in advance of a rate change,
so its reasonable to expect they would have looked to do the same for this ISA. However,
30 days in advance of 15 May, Mr L only had a balance in the account of less than £100.
This means the rate change would not be material, so Nationwide would potentially not
have to notify Mr L in writing.
This is why in the initial investigations, it was felt most likely that the letter had been sent,
and even if it had not been sent, Nationwide would not have needed to send it.
On reviewing the evidence, I decided to ask Nationwide for the specific date these
notification letters were sent out, to ensure that Mr L had been treated fairly. The response I
got was to say that the letters were sent between 20  29 April 2020, but having re-checked,
because Mr Ls account balance was less than £100 on 20 April, Nationwide confirmed that
he would not have been sent the letter. They apologised for this information being
contradictory to what they had told both our service, and Mr L previously.
As had previously been established, Mr L began moving funds into this account on 23 April
2020 and completed this in early May. This meant that he missed the date Nationwide chose
to use to check whether the minimum £100 was in a customers account; 20 April 2020.
However, the BCOBS regulations also state that if notice is being provided more than 14
days in advance of the change, it should be followed up by a reminder within a period
beginning 14 days before the relevant change takes effect.
In this instance, Mr L has fallen between the two processes. Nationwides terms and
conditions say they will tell a customer at least 14 days in advance of a rate reduction,
provided they have more than £100 in their account.
Because Nationwide chose 20 April as the date to check the balances in customer accounts,
Mr L was excluded from the notifications of the rate change. He had therefore not been
notified, despite having more than the minimum £100 required in the account by 23 April, 22
days before the rate was due to change.
I am persuaded that Mr L has not been treated fairly. Whilst I accept that this is initially due
to the unlucky timing of his funds transfers, the response from Nationwide to his complaint,
which incorrectly told him that they had notified him of the rate change, then made the
situation worse and caused Mr L some frustration and upset.The financial loss to Mr L is as follows. He became aware of the rate change shortly after it
changed on 15 May 2020 and was able to move his funds to a preferable account within four
days. At this stage, subject to any new comments or information from either party, my
thoughts are that Nationwide should compensate Mr L with four days interest at the higher
rate of 1% instead of 0.01%. This figure should then include simple annual interest at 8%
from 19 May 2020 until the date it is paid, to recognise the period Mr L has been without
these funds.
Additionally, Nationwide should pay Mr L £75 for the trouble and upset caused to him due to
them insisting they had sent him the relevant notification of the rate change, which
subsequently they have confirmed they did not in fact send. It is clear Mr L has been upset
by their response to his requests for evidence of the notification, which is only made worse
now that it has been confirmed they didnt in fact send that notification.
Both Nationwide and Mr L now have until the due date set out above to send in any further
information, should they wish to do so. Neither party needs to repeat anything it has said to
us before. This is simply an opportunity to submit anything materially new before I make a
final decision.
My provisional decision
Subject to any further submissions received by the due date, my provisional decision is that I
will be upholding the complaint. Nationwide should:
- pay Mr L the additional 4 days of interest to make up the fall in rate from 15 May
2020 to 18 May 2020 (tax free to recognise the ISA status of the account at the time), with
annual simple interest of 8% from 19 May 2020 until the date it is paid.
- pay Mr L £75 for the trouble and upset caused.
If Nationwide considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax
from the simple interest figure from 19 May 2020 onwards, it should tell Mr L how much it
has taken off. It should also give Mr L a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L confirmed he agreed with my provisional decision. Nationwide came back to me on 30 
March 2021 saying that they did not agree with the decision. They believe that they were not 
required to notify Mr L of the rate change, because on the date they chose as the cut off for 
these notifications, 20 April 2020, he had less than £100 in the account meaning that the 
regulations confirm they do not need to notify him at that point. And as there was no need to 
notify him then, the requirement to follow up again with a reminder within 14 days is not 
relevant as this is only for customers who were notified originally. 
As such, whilst they accept the trouble and upset caused by giving Mr L the wrong 
information, they dont feel they should pay the 4 days worth of interest at the higher rate. 
They say that they are firmly of the view that their actions have been fully compliant in this 
case. 
In isolation, looking at the wording of the regulations, I accept the view from the business 
that theyve not broken them. However, I dont think this view considers the circumstances in 
this case, for this customer. My role is to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, not 
just whether the actions of a business have abided by a specific set of regulations. The 
regulations are there to create a framework to hopefully ensure customers are treated fairly, 
but in these circumstances, Mr L has ended up disadvantaged by a process he wasnt aware 
of. 
Mr L had considerable funds with Nationwide, which they informed him were going to suffer 
a drop in interest rate. They wrote saying he could move the funds online to another account 
with Nationwide or to another business, if he wasnt happy with the rate drop. He moved a 
considerable amount of funds into another Nationwide account he had, on the basis that he 
wasnt aware of any impending rate change on that account. 
Whilst Nationwide have abided by the regulations, it has still led to an outcome which isnt 
fair and reasonable for this customer. Mr L wasnt made aware either before or after 
transferring his funds to this account of the rate change which was going to be applied. He 
noticed it on the day it happened and mitigated his loss by finding another account to move 
the funds to in 4 days. I think hes behaved reasonably in doing that, but he has lost out on 4 
days interest, and I dont think that is fair or reasonable. I understand the argument the 
business makes, but in this instance, I am not persuaded to change my provisional decision, 
and I am upholding the complaint.    
Putting things right
 Nationwide should:
- pay Mr L the additional 4 days of interest to make up the fall in rate from 15 May
2020 to 18 May 2020 (tax free to recognise the ISA status of the account at the time), with
annual simple interest of 8% from 19 May 2020 until the date it is paid.
- pay Mr L £75 for the trouble and upset caused.
If Nationwide considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax
from the simple interest figure from 19 May 2020 onwards, it should tell Mr L how much it
has taken off. It should also give Mr L a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide to put things right 
as explained above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman