DRN-4066968
The complaint
Mr G complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited (SMFL) irresponsibly granted him a hire 
purchase agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In March 2018, Mr G acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
SMFL. Mr G was required to make 59 monthly repayments of around £156 followed by a 
final payment of around £166. The total repayable under the agreement was around £9,351.
Mr G says that SMFL didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. SMFL didnt agree. It said that it carried 
out a thorough assessment which included asking Mr G about his employment and 
residential status, a credit check and checking Mr Gs declared income with the credit 
reference agency. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought SMFL didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr G didnt agree and said he repaid the lending by getting another loan. He said his 
monthly income wasnt sufficient to cover his costs of living and this was shown by his credit 
report. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SMFL will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
SMFL has said that it carried out a credit check. I havent the results of these checks and so 
I have relied on a copy of the credit file supplied by Mr G alongside the information SMFL 
provided about the outcome of its credit search. The credit report provided is a recent report 
and given when the agreement was provided, the report may not give a complete picture of 
the information that may have been available at the time. However, I think it does give an 
indication of what SMFL would likely have seen. At the time of the application, it shows that 
Mr G had other active accounts including current accounts, a credit card, mail order account 
and a loan account. His credit report shows he was managing these accounts well which is 
in line with the outcome SMFL noted.
SMFL has explained it verified Mr Gs income through a credit reference agency check. I 
havent seen the details of this but having looked through the evidence provided the income 
amount of £1,100 used by SMFL is supported by Mr Gs bank statements. In fact, the 
statements suggest a slightly higher amount of around £1,200. Additional to Mr Gs income 
from employment he also received regular payments from individuals  some noted as 
amounts owed whereas other payments appear to be contributions towards costs. I havent 
included these amounts as income as it isnt clear they can be relied on however I have 
reflected the contributions to costs in my assessment below of expenses. 
I cant see that SMFL asked Mr G about his expenses. I cant be certain what Mr G would 
have told SMFL had it asked about his regular expenditure. I dont think SMFL needed to 
request bank statements, but in the absence of anything else, Ive placed significant weight 
on the information contained in Mr Gs statements as an indication of what would most likely 
have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application. These show that 
Mr G was receiving regular amounts towards certain costs, specifically rent and so I have 
reflected this in my assessment as I find it likely if asked, he would have explained this. 
Taking this into account Mr Gs expenses - including his share of the housing costs as well 
as other costs such as utilities, credit commitments, phone and insurance were around £800. 
Taking these figures into account, it appears to show the agreement was affordable to Mr G. 
For this reason, Im not persuaded that SMFL acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman