DRN-2903281
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S raised various concerns about the customer service or lack of service theyve 
received from Argentis Financial Management Ltd, trading as Gallagher.
What happened
An investigator at this service summarised their complaint, and his response, as follows:
Your original adviser left the business and the office he worked from closed. Gallagher 
has explained the office was a satellite office and the main office address had always 
been stated on all correspondence provided by the adviser.
Gallagher has apologised for the fact you werent informed about your original advisor 
leaving the business. But there wasnt any need to inform you of the satellite office 
closing because the main office address had always been provided to you.
The Client Agreement clearly states youd be provided with annual reviews. I dont doubt 
your version of events about a verbal agreement being made for a six-monthly review. But 
Im afraid I havent seen anything to confirm this agreement. So, I cant expect Gallagher 
to have provided a service it wasnt aware had been agreed.
I agree there have been some customer service issues. Your email bounced back when 
you emailed the original advisor. And when you spoke to a member of staff, an email 
escalated to management was unfortunately overlooked.
Youve explained you had to contact the provider of your ISAs directly in order to make a 
withdrawal or withdrawals from them. I appreciate this is frustrating, but I cant say its 
unreasonable for you to contact the provider directly if you wanted to withdraw funds from 
them.
As explained, the Client Agreement states youd be provided with annual reviews. And 
given your original advisor had left the business, I think its reasonable for you to expect it to 
some take time for a new advisor to be assigned to help you - especially given your agreed 
and documented annual review was some time away.
The fees charged for servicing your account was an annual fee of 0.7% of the assets. It 
isnt
a monthly servicing fee. Youve been receiving a higher level of service than the Client
Agreement states and either way, I wont be asking for any fees to be refunded. The fees 
wouldve been agreed at the point of sale and youve received more than the level of 
service documented.
Im happy to see that Gallagher has agreed to maintain the level of service you said youd 
agreed verbally with the original adviser. In regard to the customer service youve 
received, I agree that things couldve gone better at times. Gallagher has agreed there 
have been some customer service issues. Its offered or paid £150 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused. I think this amount of compensation is fair and its in line with 
what our service would expect to see.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. This is a brief summary of those points I felt most pertinent:
During the last review, August 2019, they discussed the performance of their 
ISAs, agreeing to keep them under review. Towards the end of 2019 they 
decided to withdraw the UK Old Mutual ISAs and move their money to Euro-
based products (given underlying Brexit-related market trends). Believing they 
were due a review with P, their advisor, in February 2020, they decided it could 
wait until then
They were never told P was leaving the company or had left
They were then unable to contact anyone at Gallagher  emails bouncing back, 
calls to the office getting no response, eventually being told that the advisor had 
left last year. And, crucially, that their account had yet to be allocated a new 
advisor but that a Director would make contact at some point
The net result of the delays, including having to discover who and how to contact 
the underlying provider in order to withdraw the funds, was that the exchange rate 
dropped dramatically
How does the investigator believe this is acceptable?
The £150 compensation Gallagher offered had a time limit: "This offer will 
expire 6 months from the date of this letter (20th March 2020)"  the 
investigator made no comment on this or the fact that it had now expired
They also raised various points about how this service had dealt with their complaint. 
These, in my view, are not relevant to the merits of their actual complaint against 
Gallagher.
In a Provisional Decision, I said:
From what I have read, there is no significant disagreement about what occurred, 
merely about the extent of Gallaghers responsibilities and thereby its failings, and how 
much compensation is appropriate.
I will therefore only address these questions.
As Gallagher will be aware, the role of a specific advisor is often critical to a clients 
relationship with the business. It may be the reason the client chose that company, as 
Mr and Mrs S have argued in this case, and central to their continuing trust in the 
company.
In Mr and Mrs Ss case, apart from the substantial upfront fee, they were paying nearly
£4,500 a year for continuing advice. While their contract states they were entitled to 
a minimum of one review a year, Im persuaded that their advisor had offered and 
was providing twice yearly reviews.
So, when P left the business, Gallagher should have immediately read Mr and Mrs Ss file 
and realised this. It then needed to promptly inform them of its new contact details, 
including a contactable phone number, email and address  and allocated them a new 
advisor as soon as possible. If it did not intend to offer a review until 12 months after the 
previous one it should have made that clear.
It did none of these things, leaving Mr and Mrs S without the necessary information to 
contact it and explain that they wanted advice about their portfolio. I have no doubt that 
this caused very substantial trouble and upset, particularly as Mr and Mrs S live overseas.Given the amount they were paying in ongoing fees and the lengthy delay before being 
finally offered a new advisor, I am satisfied that £500 (this includes the £150 initially 
offered) is reasonable recompense for the considerable trouble and upset Gallagher 
caused.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr and Mrs S accepted my view.  Gallagher dd not respond.
For the reasons previously outlined, I am satisfied this complaint should be upheld and that 
Gallagher should compensate Mr and Mrs for its poor service.
Putting things right
Gallagher must pay Mr and Mrs S £500.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Argentis Financial Management Ltd, trading as Gallagher 
to pay Mr and Mrs S £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman