DRN-1695958
 
Complaint
Mrs B says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this 
decision, rather than any other business. 
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs B took out in 2000.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case. 
Ive decided this PPI policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
AXA didnt recommend the policy to Mrs B, so it didnt have to check it was right for her. But 
it did have to give her information about the PPI that was clear, fair, and not misleading, so 
she could decide for herself whether it was right for her.
I cant see that AXA gave Mrs B clear information about the policys exclusions at the point 
of sale. And I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs B, since she had a medical condition which 
wouldnt have been covered.
I understand AXAs point that Mrs Bs condition appeared to be well-managed at the point of 
sale. But she had only had it for a relatively short time at that stage, so she wouldnt have 
necessarily known how it would affect her in the years to come. Mrs Bs condition was a 
chronic, lifelong one, which needed ongoing treatment and monitoring, and which could have 
developed very serious complications. Indeed, I think it wouldve been the condition that 
Mrs B was most concerned about at the time, and she wouldve thought it was the most 
likely one to cause her to claim. But this policy excluded claims not only for her condition, but 
for any which resulted from it  which would cast a rather wide net in this case. So Mrs B 
couldnt have claimed on the policy for everything she might have expected to be able to.
I dont think Mrs B wouldve bought the policy if AXA had given her enough information about 
its exclusions. So I think Mrs B has most likely lost out because of the flaws in this sale. 
Putting things rightAXA France IARD should put Mrs B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI. That means:
A.) AXA should find out how much Mrs B would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs B owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.) AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs B would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% simple a year.
C.) If  when AXA works out what Mrs B would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs B paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs B wouldve 
owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should again be 8% simple a 
year.
D.) AXA should tell Mrs B what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
AXA France IARD should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman