DRN-2491341
The complaint
Mr O complains that Arkwright Insurance Brokers Limiteds level of service led to his insurer 
cancelling his commercial motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr O took out a policy for his van through Arkwright and he was asked what his occupation 
was. Mr O responded that he was a computer technician. Validation checks and further 
questions found that Mr O was also the sole director of a company. Arkwright passed this 
information to the insurer and it decided that it could no longer insurer Mr O and so his policy 
was cancelled.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Arkwright had asked Mr O questions about his occupation and it had then passed this to the 
insurer. She couldnt consider whether the insurers decision to cancel the policy was fair. 
She thought Arkwright had acted fairly and communicated clearly with Mr O. 
Mr O replied that he thought Arkwright had cancelled his policy, not the insurer. He thought 
Arkwright hadnt acted in his best interests. He wanted it to refund the additional expenses 
hed incurred as a result of the cancellation. Mr O asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Os frustration with the number of businesses involved in providing his 
policy. But I think the investigator has clearly explained how they relate to each other and 
which one is the ultimate underwriter for his policy. 
I think she has also explained that Arkwright was delegated authority to carry out the 
cancellation on its behalf, as its agent. I think this is clear in the cancellation letter it sent to 
Mr O. But the decision to cancel the policy was ultimately made by the underwriter, and I 
cant consider that here as its a different business to Arkwright. 
Mr O has also complained that Arkwright arranged a policy with a business that wasnt 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). But I cant consider that new complaint 
point here, and Mr O will have to first complain to Arkwright about this. 
Mr O was also concerned that Arkwright acted for both him and the insurer. But I think this 
isnt something I can consider as the role of brokers is a matter for the regulator, the FCA. 
Instead, Ill consider whether Arkwright has acted fairly and communicated clearly with Mr O 
in administering his policy. 
Mr O took out his policy through Arkwright and stated that his occupation was an employed 
computer technician and the van would be used for carrying his goods. The policy was 
validated by the insurer and it asked Arkwright to obtain further information about Mr Os 
occupation. 
I think Arkwright did this and Mr O has provided us with a helpful table of its correspondence 
with him. I can see that Arkwright asked Mr O to confirm his occupation, explain the nature 
of the company he was sole director of, and explain how the van would be used. I think Mr O 
answered these questions and Ive seen that Arkwright then passed the responses to the 
insurer. The insurer then told Arkwright to tell Mr O that it would no longer be able to offer 
cover and to cancel the policy. But, as Ive said above, I cant hold Arkwright responsible for 
this decision.
So I think Arkwright acted fairly and reasonably in passing information between Mr O and the 
insurer. I think it communicated clearly in doing this. And so I cant say it did anything wrong 
or needs to make Mr O any refund.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman