DRN-3968590
The complaint
Mrs W is the executor representing the estate of the late Mrs S. She has complained to 
us about the irresponsible sale of loans given to the late Mrs S by National Westminster 
Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
One of our investigators looked at everything provided and thought that this was a complaint 
that we could consider in that it fell within our jurisdiction to do so. I agree. But our 
investigator then reached the conclusion that it was inappropriate for us to look at the 
complaint as there was insufficient evidence for us to be able reach a fair and reasonable 
determination in this case. NatWest raised no objection to the jurisdiction argument. So, I 
didnt think I needed to say anything about that in my decision. Mrs W objected to the 
complaint being dismissed. So, the complaint passed to me to decide.
I approached this complaint slightly differently to the way our investigator approached it. I did 
not dismiss the complaint. But I was minded not to uphold the complaint because of the lack 
of evidence. I didnt think I needed to explain why I thought the complaint shouldnt be 
dismissed, as I trusted that would be welcomed by Mrs W. But I explained why I thought I 
was unable to uphold the complaint. 
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 10 February 2023, a section 
of which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set 
out the reasons why it was my intention not to uphold the complaint. I set out an extract 
below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
NatWest will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
The loans consolidated each other and were:
£1,500 for 30 months in 1996
£5,000 for 72 months in 1998
£12,000 for 120 months in 1999.
This complaint is that NatWest made credit available to the late Mrs S that was 
unaffordable. Its possible that NatWest failed to make adequate checks before providing 
the credit. But even if thats true, I have seen insufficient evidence to think better enquiries 
would have caused NatWest to think the loans were unaffordable. 
It is not straightforward trying to determine affordability when the events complained 
about happened so long ago. In this case the most recent loan was taken out over 23 
years ago. In addition, I have to consider that the late Mrs S is not able to provide her 
recollections of these matters. And whilst Mrs W has been engaged and helpful with her 
recollections, I have had to consider that she told us she was not aware of Mrs Ws 
financial issues until 2021. 
And neither Mrs W nor NatWest has been able to provide any bank statements from the 
times in question. And I have not seen any credit agency information from the times. So, I 
have no way of knowing the affordability of any credit the late Mrs S may have had or how 
the late Mrs S was managing any existing credit she had at the time the lending decisions 
were made. 
I have noted the list of credit that Mrs W told us that the late Mrs S held at various times. 
But even if these were all corroborated, only two of the credit sources were taken out 
before the first lending decision was made that is at the heart of this particular complaint. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mrs W to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led NatWest to think that the credit it 
provided the late Mrs S was unreasonable. 
I know that Mrs W will be disappointed with my decision, but I want Mrs W to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 24 February 2023. NatWest responded acknowledging receipt of 
my provisional decision. They said they have nothing further to add. Mrs W has 
acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision. Mrs W has not been able to provide any 
further evidence for me to consider. 
Both parties have inferred they have made their final submissions in this complaint. So, I am 
proceeding to my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ws response to the provisional decision contained no specific argument with my 
provisional findings. And I have been presented with no new evidence to consider in 
determining an outcome in this complaint. 
That being the case, I have no reason to depart from the findings I made in my provisional 
decision. And as Ive already set out my full reasons (above) for not upholding the complaint, 
I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman