DRN-4206337
The complaint
In summary, Mrs W complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, didnt 
complete the transfer of an Individual Savings Account (ISA) in the time it should have. 
As Clydesdale is the company responsible for the complaint, I will refer to it in my decision 
rather than Virgin Money.
What happened
In October 2022, Mrs W requested a transfer of an ISA she had with another provider to 
Clydesdale. She wasnt happy with the time it took for the transfer to be completed and 
complained to Clydesdale.
In its response to her complaint, Clydesdale apologised that the transfer took as long as it 
did. And it accepted Mrs W had received poor customer service. It confirmed that interest 
had been backdated to November 2022. It also offered her £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience she had been caused.
Mrs W didnt accept the £100 offered by Clydesdale. So, her concerns were looked into by 
one of our investigators. They said that Clydesdale had put her back into the position she 
would have been in, by refunding all of the interest she would have received. It had also 
offered her £100 in compensation. So, they werent asking it to do anymore.
Mrs W didnt agree and asked several questions which the investigator responded to. In 
summary she didnt think the award was sufficient for the five months distress and 
inconvenience she suffered. Her husband had to chase Clydesdale on a regular basis. 
Mrs W provided further submissions as to why she didnt think the award was sufficient. She 
said Clydesdale was the controller of the paperwork and therefore of the timetable and 
speed of events. She thought there should be a fixed regulatory fine for each case it failed 
on. She accepted there was not a great deal of lost interest. It took 125 days for the correct 
interest to be received and she didnt think the effective award of 80 pence a day was 
sufficient. 
The complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Clydesdale needs to do anything more. Ill explain why.
In reaching my findings, I havent commented on every point of concern Mrs W has raised. I 
dont intend to offend her by not doing so or mean any disrespect in taking this approach. 
Instead, Ive focussed on the key issues I think I need to consider.  
Mrs W has confirmed that Clydesdale has paid the interest she lost out on as a result of the 
delays and backdated this to when the transfer should have been completed. I understand 
Mrs Ws concerns that Clydesdale hadnt processed her ISA transfer application within the 
relevant timeframes, and she had to chase the payment of interest. Thats not in dispute and 
Clydesdale accepts that there were delays in the ISA transfer being processed which were 
down to it, and in it providing Mrs W with information; and applying the interest correctly. So, 
I dont need to make any findings on that point. But I do need to consider what appropriate 
compensation should be for the distress and inconvenience she has been caused.
I agree that Mrs W has been caused some distress and inconvenience as a result of 
Clydesdales delays and has had to chase it to get the transfer progressed. It appears that 
her husband has assisted with that as well.
Deciding on an award of compensation for distress and inconvenience, isnt an exact 
science. I need to think about the impact on Mrs W of the mistakes made by Clydesdale 
when considering the amount of any award that might be appropriate, to compensate her for 
the distress and inconvenience shes been caused.  And I dont have the power to make any 
punitive award against a business such as Clydesdale.
I acknowledge the transfer took longer than it should have. I also accept that Mrs W was put 
to the inconvenience of having to chase this matter up with Clydesdale over several months. 
It seems to me that the impact on Mrs W has been relatively moderate, although I 
acknowledge she doesnt think so.
Mrs W has said she thinks Clydesdale should be fined for every case that it has failed on. I 
understand her wider concerns given her personal experience in respect of her ISA transfer. 
But I can only consider individual complaints. Its not my role or that of this service to 
consider any potential regulatory failings that may have been caused by Clydesdale. That 
would be a matter for its regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), to consider. 
Although its possible that Clydesdale could have offered to pay more compensation, for the 
reasons Ive summarised, I dont think what it has offered Mrs W is an inappropriate amount 
of compensation, to reflect the inconvenience she has been caused because of the delays 
by it in processing her ISA transfer and rectifying the account.
My final decision
Clydesdale Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that if that amount hasnt already been paid to Mrs W and if she accepts 
my decision, Clydesdale Bank Plc should pay Mrs W £100.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman