The complaint
Mr K complains that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) have mishandled his 
legal expenses insurance claim.
RSA use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses policy, so any reference to the 
insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or omissions of such 
intermediaries.
What happened
Mr K is pursuing a personal injury claim after being involved in an accident in April 2017. He 
secured the services of a solicitor (Firm F) on a contingency fee arrangement and 
contacted RSA to make a claim on his legal expenses insurance policy, as he wanted cover 
for disbursements and to protect the Part 36 offer that had been made by the defendant.
Mr K complained because he became dissatisfied with the way RSA were handling his legal 
expenses claim. This includes, but is not strictly limited to:
RSA failed to contact him for six months after reporting his claim. He received no
updates on the claims progress and had to chase the insurer to ensure it was being
dealt with.
Despite his solicitor confirming that his claim had reasonable prospects of success,
RSA unreasonably delayed their decision on whether to indemnify, and failed to tell
him why.
RSA hindered his claim by using a series of different tests that are misaligned with
and not specified in the terms and conditions, and they further delayed matters by
failing to set out exactly what they required from Firm F in order to accept liability. In
any event, his solicitor had already provided all the necessary information and
assurances required under the policy, but the insurer failed to act upon this.
RSA used unfair parameters in assessing whether his claim was proportionate to
pursue, as they based their decision on the maximum potential disbursements rather
than using a reasonable estimate.
They also wrongly refused to cover his costs for medico-legal opinions at various
points, despite the policy confirming that such costs are covered.
Mr K submits that he has not been treated fairly by RSA, and is seeking compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by their handling of his claim. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ks complain. He considered that RSA had applied the 
policy terms fairly, and that they could not be held responsible for the time it took to confirm 
cover as they had not been provided with the necessary information from Firm F. The 
investigator also did not think that RSA had handled the claim inappropriately at any point. 
Mr K disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
DRN-2003603What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it.
Lack of contact from RSA
Mr K submits that RSA have not treated him fairly because he did not hear anything from 
them for at least six months after they received his claim. This led to him having to contact 
the insurer on 10 November 2018 to ask for a progress update.
RSA explained that they did write to Mr K at the outset by way of introduction, but thereafter 
corresponded directly with his solicitors, which is why he did not hear anything from them. I 
appreciate that Mr K may not have received the introductory letter mentioned by RSA. But 
given that he had appointed legal representatives to act on his behalf in this matter, the 
insurer was entitled to correspond solely with the solicitors in that regard, as any 
communication made with the solicitor as the representative is tantamount to corresponding 
with Mr K as their instructing client. 
I can see that RSA were in contact with Mr Ks solicitors between April 2018 and November 
2018 when he contacted them. So I cannot agree that they ignored his claim or failed to 
respond in relation to the matter.
I appreciate that RSA could have made it clear to Mr K that they would only be 
corresponding with Firm F from the outset. But his solicitors should have also been able to 
give him an update on the progress of his claim given that RSA were in touch with them. So I 
do not think their failure to contact Mr K directly during the period in question suggests that 
they have not treated him fairly. 
Did RSA interpret and apply the policy terms fairly?
The policy terms and conditions set out the requirements for cover:
We will agree if all of the following apply:
We think you have a reasonable chance of winning your case and achieving a 
reasonable outcome
You have kept to the terms and conditions of the policy and none of the exclusions 
listed on page 24 of this booklet apply.
Page 24 sets out the various policy exclusions, which include: 
Any claim where there is not a reasonable chance of you winning the case and 
achieving a reasonable outcome.
Legal proceedings where a reasonable estimate of your total legal expenses is 
greater than the amount in dispute.
As such, the onus was on Mr K and his solicitors to demonstrate that his claim had 
reasonable prospects of success and that any likely settlement made it proportionate to 
pursue when compared with the potential cost of any such action. 
It isnt disputed that Mr Ks claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of success, as liability had 
been conceded by the defendant. But he submits that RSA have attempted to block his claim by introducing different and onerous tests in respect of proportionality. 
In Mr Ks case, a part 36 offer for the sum of £62,615 had been made by the defendants, but 
he did not think this was an adequate offer and so was seeking a larger amount in damages. 
RSA had initially asked Firm F to confirm that a reasonable estimate of the total legal 
expenses was less than the amount in dispute. Firm F sought clarification of what was meant 
by the amount in dispute on 26 October 2018.
RSA subsequently contacted Firm F on 1 November 2018 explaining what was meant by 
this, and set out their position, where they said:
as well as the claim having prospects of success, it must also be proportionate to 
proceed in that the total legal expenses must not exceed the amount in dispute
I understand that indemnity is only being sought for the potential disbursements to be 
incurred, however these are valued at £72,715.50, therefore in order to fully ensure 
that the above exclusion is not applicable we must be certain that the claim value 
(amount in dispute) exceeds this.
I am mindful that a Part 36 offer of £62,215 has been made to settle the claim and you 
have advised that without the medical legal evidence you cannot accurately value the 
claim or determine the prospects of beating the offer. Therefore at this stage it cannot 
be determined whether the claim is proportionate to proceed and as such we are 
unable to advise whether indemnity can be provided by the policy. 
That being said, as a gesture of good will, in order to gauge the true value of the claim 
and understand whether the current part 36 is reasonable I will agree to cover the 
costs ofthe required reports
Once the true claim value has been established we can then determine whether the 
part 36 offer is reasonable and is to be accepted or whether the offer can be rejected 
and indemnity provided'.
Mr K submits that RSA have acted unfairly because they did not define what they meant by 
amount in dispute or claim value, which has delayed his claim from being accepted. 
Having considered the emails sent between RSA and Firm F, I dont consider it was unclear 
as to what was required for the indemnity to be granted.
RSA asked the solicitors to demonstrate that amount in dispute (i.e. the total amount claimed 
from the defendant) would exceed any amount they might have to pay towards his legal 
expenses. And given that its a policy requirement for the claim to be proportionate, I dont 
consider that RSA have introduced any more stringent or onerous requirements in this 
regard, as the amount in dispute is the wording used in the policy document. The term 
claim value may not have been expressly used in the policy wording, but it was used 
synonymously in this respect, and I think a solicitor ought reasonably to have understood 
what it was RSA required here, particularly as this is a commonplace requirement in the vast 
majority of legal expenses policies. Indeed, I note that Firm F even reference the value of 
the claim themselves in the legal expenses case analysis, where they say they are unable 
to accurately value it without further evidence. 
When Firm F asked for clarification in their email of October 2018, Im also satisfied that RSA 
provided a clear explanation of what they required in their email outlined above  i.e. 
confirmation (by giving an overview of the total damages claimed) that the claim value would likely exceed the estimated £72,715.50 costs of the claim.
Mr K says his solicitors had previously provided enough to demonstrate that his claim was 
proportionate to pursue, as they had assured RSA that they were confident the part 36 offer 
could be beaten.
Ive considered the information RSA received from Firm F to determine whether the solicitor 
had provided enough information such that the insurer ought reasonably to have accepted 
that the claim was proportionate to pursue. Firm F sent RSA a legal expenses case analysis 
form on 10 May 2018 with a bundle of supporting documents. They said Mr K was seeking to 
obtain a settlement greater than the part 36 offer, but also made the following remarks:
Since the insured needs to be re-examined by a [surgeon], and we await evidence 
from [medical professionals] we are currently unable to accurately value the claim. 
Following receipt of this further medico-legal evidence, the part 36 offer will be 
reconsidered (my emphasis added). 
Liability is admitted and a percentage chance cannot be apportioned to the prospects 
of beating the current part 36 offer until all medico-legal evidence is complete .
I cannot be sure the Claimant will beat the part 36 offer as it depends upon the 
medico-legal evidence.
I would hope to achieve a figure higher than the part 36 offer.
So, at this point, its clear that Firm F had not provided enough to satisfy the policy 
requirement of proportionality, as it seems the claim had been submitted somewhat 
prematurely given that further medical evidence was still required in order to accurately value 
the claim in the first place. And I dont consider that the solicitors somewhat vague 
assurances of hoping to beat the offer was enough in the circumstances to demonstrate that 
any settlement would outweigh the potential costs. So I dont think it was unreasonable for 
RSA to place Mr Ks claim in abeyance until such time that Firm F were in a position to 
provide an accurate value. 
Firm F subsequently provided further information to RSA on 22 June 2018 where they said 
that they expect that on balance, the claimant will beat the Part 36 offer. But this was still 
qualified with comments such as:
It is difficult to quantify general damages/Smith V Manchester/future losses as the 
medico-legal evidence is incomplete in that we await evidence from [medical 
professionals].
I cannot guarantee that we will beat the part 36 offer because the claimants 
treatment is ongoing and we are awaiting updated medico-legal evidence.
I appreciate that the solicitors could not guarantee that they would beat the part 36 offer  
and neither would they be expected to. But neither were they able to provide (in percentage 
terms) what the prospects of beating the offer were, and nor could they give a reasonable 
estimate of the total damages they were actually seeking  because the claim was 
seemingly still too premature as they still needed further medico-legal evidence before these 
details could be determined. So again, in the face of such equivocal remarks from Firm F  
and given the ambiguity surrounding the total amount of damages claimed until further 
evidence could be obtained  I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to continue to hold 
the claim in abeyance, as they were still unable to determine if the total value of the claim would likely exceed the £72,715.50 in potential disbursements estimated by Firm F. 
Mr K submits that RSA have used unfair parameters in order to determine what figure any 
damages ought to exceed. He says that the potential disbursements estimated by the 
solicitors included around £30,000 in trial costs, which may never materialise. I appreciate 
that the solicitor said he did not anticipate the matter going to trial. But I do not think this is 
enough in itself for the insurer to be able to discount such fees from an estimate of the total 
legal expenses they may have to cover  particularly when court action may well result 
given that a substantially higher award was sought than was being offered by the defendant. 
So I do not think it was unreasonable for RSA to base an estimate of their total outlay on the 
total figure provided by the solicitors in the evidence bundle.
I can see that it then wasnt until Firm Fs email of 12 March 2019 that RSA received a draft 
schedule of damages claimed  following further medico-legal evidence  that were in 
excess of both the part 36 offer and the estimated disbursements. So it was not until this 
point that RSA actually had any clarification as to why the part 36 offer was unreasonable 
compared with the damages that Mr K could reasonably achieve, and neither had they 
received any figures before this point to show that the claim value exceeded the estimated 
disbursements. 
Following this information, however, RSA subsequently granted indemnity for Mr Ks claim 
on 15 March 2019. And given that they had not been provided with such information before 
this date, I dont think it was unreasonable for them to hold the claim in abeyance until they 
received it, as it is not unreasonable for an insurer to want to satisfy themselves that their 
total potential outlay will not exceed any potential award before agreeing to fund legal action. 
And I'm also satisfied that they made this position clear to Firm F, and gave adequate 
explanations when asked as to why the claim was being held in abeyance. 
Cost of medical-legal opinions
Mr K also submits that RSA incorrectly told him that they could not cover his costs for 
medico-legal opinions at various points, despite the policy confirming that such costs were 
covered. I appreciate that the policy does include disbursements in the definition of legal 
expenses. But the insurer is only obliged to pay such costs once all the policy terms and 
conditions had been met. And at the point Mr K wanted RSA to pay for the medical opinions, 
cover had not been confirmed under the policy due to the insurer waiting for Firm F to 
confirm the claim was proportionate.
It is also a well-established principle of insurance that it is for the policyholder to prove that 
they have a valid claim  which means that they must also bear the costs associated with 
doing so unless the policy provides otherwise. So RSA were not incorrect when they told Mr 
K that he would have to bear such costs, and that the policy could not be used as an 
investigatory tool in this respect. But I note that RSA agreed to cover these costs in any 
event so that the value of the claim could be properly determined  which is more than they 
were required to do under the policy in these circumstances. So I can't say they've failed to 
treat Mr K fairly in their handling of this matter. 
Finally, Mr K says he also wants us to look into whether it was fair for RSA to initially refuse 
him the choice of his own solicitor when the claim was first reported and a different firm of 
panel solicitors were instructed. However, I cannot see that he raised this in his initial 
complaint with RSA, or that they have had the required eight weeks in which to provide their 
final response on the matter. So Mr K would need to raise this as a separate complaint in the 
first instance to give the insurer the appropriate opportunity to respond. As a result, I will not 
comment on this point any further at this juncture. In summary, having considered all the evidence, I do not consider that RSA have 
mishandled Mr Ks claim or have failed to treat him fairly. So I do not consider it necessary to 
make any award of compensation in these circumstances, and it follows that I do not uphold 
this complaint
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman