DRN-3163575
The complaint
Mrs Y and Mr Y have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them several 
packaged bank accounts between the late 1970s and 2009. Lloyds charged Mrs Y and Mr Y 
monthly fees for these accounts and provided several potential benefits in return. Mrs Y and 
Mr Y think that Lloyds should refund them the fees they paid for the accounts and add 
interest. 
What happened
Mrs Y and Mr Y have banked with Lloyds for many years. Lloyds has sent us information 
from its records, which shows that they opened a fee-free account in or around 1979. The 
records also show that it then sold them three packaged bank accounts. In outline:
During or before September 2001, it sold them a Gold account for which it charged a 
monthly fee. 
In August 2003, it sold them a Platinum account which replaced their Gold account 
and for which it charged a higher fee than for the Gold account. 
In July 2009, it sold them a Premier account which replaced their Platinum account 
and for which it charged a higher fee than for the Platinum account.
In July 2021, they went back to a fee-free account.
These records are not in dispute and I have taken them to be accurate.
There are time limits on how long consumers have to bring complaints to us. One of our 
adjudicators has already looked into Mrs Y and Mr Ys complaint and thought they had 
missed these time limits for the parts of their complaint about the Gold and Platinum 
accounts. Mrs Y and Mr Y accepted this. 
The adjudicator also thought that Lloyds had acted fairly when it sold Mrs Y and Mr Y the 
Premier account. Mrs Y and Mr Y didnt agree with the adjudicators findings about this and 
asked for an ombudsman to review this part of their complaint, so it has come to me to make 
a final decision. 
(Although, as I said above, Mrs Y and Mr Y originally accepted the adjudicators views about 
the Gold and Platinum accounts, in recent correspondence they have asked some questions 
about those accounts. The adjudicator has written to them to say that we will not consider 
the parts of their complaint about these accounts any further. So, for clarity, I would like to 
confirm that this decision only covers the way Lloyds sold Mrs Y and Mr Y the Premier 
account). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mrs Y and Mr Ys 
complaint. Ive looked into everything that Mrs Y and Mr Y and Lloyds have told us or sent us 
about the case, and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why below.
Both Lloyds and Mrs Y and Mr Y have told us that Lloyds advised them to buy the Premier 
account and recommended it to them during a meeting or discussion at one of its branches. 
In an advised or recommended sale like this, I would have expected Lloyds to allow Mrs Y 
and Mr Y a choice, tell them about the Premier accounts cost and benefits and check they 
had a potential need for the benefits before making a recommendation.
Lloyds seems to have told Mrs Y and Mr Y about the cost of the Premier account. They have 
not disputed that they knew about the monthly fees. Im also satisfied that Lloyds let them 
have a choice, not least because they had previously held a fee-free account and Lloyds 
continued to provide such accounts quite widely throughout the time in question. 
In July 2009, the Premier account provided several banking and non-banking benefits. The -
banking benefits included lower interest rates on some overdrafts (the overdraft benefit) than 
Lloyds usually applied to customers with fee-free (or Gold and Platinum) accounts. Amongst 
other things, the non-banking benefits included insurance for mobile phones, travel, and 
home emergencies, and use of a car breakdown service. 
The overdraft benefit is at the heart of Mrs Y and Mr Ys complaint and I will discuss it in 
more detail shortly. But with respect to the non-banking benefits, Mrs Y and Mr Y initially told 
us that they do not use any of the (non-banking benefits) sold to (them). But Lloyds pointed 
out that they had registered several mobile phones for insurance, made claims and used the 
car breakdown service. Mrs Y and Mr Y have since clarified that they fully appreciate (they) 
had (non-banking benefits) which (they) used. Theyve added that it would have been 
foolish not to use them as they were paying for them. So, I think its highly likely that Lloyds 
told them about both types of benefit. 
As I mentioned above, the overdraft benefit meant that Lloyds customers with Premier 
accounts would usually pay less interest on overdrafts than its customers with other types of 
account. It changed the details of the overdraft benefit from time-to-time. But, in outline, in 
July 2009, Lloyds didnt charge any interest to customers with Premier accounts on the first 
£500 of a planned overdraft. And, for some larger overdrafts, it also applied a lower rate of 
interest than it charged to customers with fee-free accounts. Mrs Y and Mr Y have told us 
that they usually had a substantial overdraft with Lloyds. Theyve complained that Lloyds 
used this overdraft situation to sell them the Premier account. Theyve said that they dont 
think Lloyds told them that it was only the first £500 of an overdraft that would be free of 
interest and they only found out about this later. 
Obviously, I wasnt present at the meeting, so I cant tell for sure what Lloyds said, or didnt 
say, to Mrs Y and Mr Y. I fully accept that it may have described the overdraft benefit in 
positive terms, and quite possibly at some length. But this doesnt amount to mis-selling. And 
I doubt said that Mrs Y and Mr Y could have an overdraft of any size without paying interest. 
In 2009, Lloyds provided overdraft benefits with several of its packaged accounts. These 
benefits all worked in the same way and the potential savings were higher with a Premier 
account than most other accounts. And Lloyds usually gave customers who bought Premier 
accounts a leaflet about it called a Welcome Pack. Im pretty confident it gave Mrs Y and 
Mr Y such a pack either during or shortly after the meeting and Ive looked at an example from around that time. The leaflet had a section called £500 interest-free Planned Overdraft 
which said:
In case you need a bit extra to spend, your Premier Account gives you the flexibility to 
apply for a £500 interest-free Planned Overdraft. This could help you to cover 
unexpected bills or see you through to your next pay day...
I fully accept that Mrs Y and Mr Y are doing their best to remember what happened during 
the meeting, but I think its unlikely that Lloyds described the overdraft benefit in the way 
they have said. This would have gone against its established practice with several packaged 
accounts and contradicted information in its own leaflet.
 
Mrs Y and Mr Y have also told us that they never travelled so didnt need the travel 
insurance the Premier account provided. I accept this. But the Premier account came as a 
package, and as Mrs Y and Mr Y could potentially have gained from the overdraft benefit 
and had a possible need for mobile phone insurance and a car breakdown service I think it 
was reasonable for Lloyds to recommend it to them.
 I dont think that Lloyds mis-sold the Premier account to Mrs Y and Mr Y. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs Y and Mr Ys complaint that 
Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a Premier account. I am not going to tell it to give them any 
money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2022. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman