DRN-3315697
The complaint
Ms D complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Plcs (RSA) decision to decline a claim and 
avoid her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms D reported a burglary at her home in November 2020. She contacted RSA who 
appointed investigators to look into her claim. This included a review of the CCTV footage 
taken at her home. It decided the claim had been exaggerated to include items that werent 
stolen. The company declined the claim with reference to its policy exclusions and avoided 
the policy back to the date the claim was made.  
RSA says the CCTV footage confirms the burglars werent in the property for long enough to 
have located, packed and removed the items claimed. It says the footage shows none of the 
three burglars were carrying any items when they left the property. The list of stolen items 
included a games console, laptop, shoes, clothing and bags amongst a number of smaller 
items. RSA says its implausible that the burglars would be able to hide these items on their 
person, without it being visible on the CCTV footage.
Ms D disagreed with this decision. She says the items stolen were in her living room and that 
the door to her property was open all night because of the burglary. She maintains all the 
items in her claim are missing. And doesnt agree that the CCTV footage shows the burglars 
werent carrying anything. Ms D also says RSAs investigators were rude to her. 
Ms D referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator decided not to uphold the 
complaint. He felt RSA had fairly relied on its investigators report, and its policy terms when 
declining the claim and avoiding the policy. Ms D wasnt happy with this outcome and asked 
for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
This has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is worth stating at the outset that its not my role to determine whether a fraudulent act has 
occurred or not. Its my role to decide, taking all the circumstances into account, whether 
RSA has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it has handled Ms Ds claim. Having 
considered all the available evidence, I have to say I think it has and so Im not upholding 
her complaint. Ill explain why I think my decision is fair. 
The terms of the policy say:
FRAUD
We believe our policyholders are honest  the contract between us is based on mutual trust. 
However, fraudulent insurance claims are occasionally made. Where fraud (which can 
include exaggeration) is detected, claims will not be paid and we may refer the matter to the 
police for criminal prosecution. The policy may be rendered invalid and we may take other 
action consistent with our legal rights.
RSA says that the CCTV footage shows there wasnt enough time for the burglars to locate, 
package and remove all the items Ms D reported stolen. It also says the footage doesnt 
shows them carrying anything out of the property. Although some of the items reported 
stolen are small, others are larger, including shoes, clothes and a games console. RSA 
states its implausible these wouldnt show on the footage. It thinks the claim has been 
exaggerated.  
I have viewed the CCTV footage in conjunction with the report RSAs investigator provided. 
This shows that three individuals approached the front of Ms Ds house. One goes around 
the back, whilst the other two remain at the front. The third person comes around to the front 
again and all three move to the back of the house. 
The CCTV footage from the rear shows the three individuals breaking into the house. The 
timings are of importance here as it confirms how long the burglars were in Ms Ds house. 
From the time shown on the video, entry was made via the back door at 02:29:38hrs. 
There is some footage from inside Ms Ds home from a camera covering the downstairs 
hallway. One of the burglars is seen using a torch to look around and then moves out of view 
at 02:31:36hrs. All three then leave the house via the back door at 02:31:53hrs. 
RSA says the hallway footage shows the burglar carrying only a torch. Then less than 20 
seconds later the burglar exits the house. It says there is no sign of any of the burglars 
carrying anything when they reappear at the front of the house. Then two of them get into Ms 
Ds car and the other walks away up the road. 
Having considered the CCTV footage, I cant identify the burglars carrying any items, other 
than the torch shown in the hallway recording. 
I acknowledge Ms Ds comments that the footage from the front of the house when the 
burglars are leaving isnt of great quality. The burglars are also obscured in part by a tree, 
when walking across the front of the house. However, footage is sufficiently clear to see that 
the lead burglar is swinging his/her arms freely and isnt holding anything. The other two 
burglars following behind cant be seen to be holding or carrying anything either. 
From the list of stolen items, I note Ms D says the burglars took: a laptop; a games console; 
a tablet; phone; seven items of clothing including jackets, jumpers and a gilet; a bag; two 
pairs of shoes; a figurine ornament; three pairs of sunglasses and a candle stand. This is in 
addition to around twenty further smaller items including jewellery, cash and cards. 
From the video footage provided I would expect to see some evidence of these items being 
carried. Although some of the items are small and could have been put in a pocket  others 
are relatively large and there is no evidence of these in any of the video footage provided.   
Its not possible to identify items being removed from Ms Ds house. Also acknowledging the 
short period of time, 135 seconds, the burglars were inside  I think RSAs argument is 
persuasive that its implausible, based on this evidence, that all these items were taken and 
carried away by the burglars.
I acknowledge Ms Ds comment that the back door was left unsecured for the remainder of 
the night. Also, that the burglars could have returned or left items somewhere to be picked 
up later. I understand she has been unable to provide any subsequent CCTV footage to support this, but says she wasnt made aware that this might be needed until sometime later. 
I have considered these points. I dont think Ms D has reasonably shown that the burglars 
returned or hid the items somewhere, in the 40 seconds it took for them to walk from the rear 
of the property to the pavement at the front of Ms Ds house. If they were carrying all the 
items reported stolen, I think its likely some sign of this would be observable in the CCTV 
footage.   
This has been a distressing time for Ms D and I sympathise that her home was burgled. But I 
think RSA was fair when relying on the policy terms to decline the claim and avoid the policy. 
Finally, Ms Ds says she was treated rudely by RSAs investigators. When she asked for an 
earlier appointment, she says she was told, there are more important people than you I 
have to attend to. I have reviewed the records provided, and although I dont dispute Ms Ds 
recollection of what was said, I dont have any other evidence to clarify what was discussed. 
RSA maintains its investigators behaved professionally, albeit their role meant they had to 
challenge Ms D on the circumstances of her claim. 
RSA has acknowledged an internal email was sent to Ms D by mistake. I have read the 
email. It clearly wasnt intended for Ms D and is fairly blunt in what it says about not receiving 
calls or messages from her. The investigator provided an apology over the phone and by 
email when Ms D pointed out this issue. I can appreciate Ms D was upset by this, but I think 
the apology provided was appropriate to acknowledge the mistake that was made.     
In summary I think RSA acted fairly in declining the claim and avoiding the policy. I also think 
it behaved reasonably in providing an apology for the email sent in error. So, I cant 
reasonably ask it to do any more to resolve Ms Ds complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman