DRN-1650255
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
mortgage. Mr R and Mrs C say Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as TSB, mis-sold them the PPI.
What happened
In 1998, Mr R and Mrs C took out a mortgage with Lloyds and at that time they were sold a 
PPI policy. The policy cost £18.10 a month and protected their mortgage repayments on a 
50:50 basis if Mr R or Mrs C were unable to work because of an accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.  Mr R and Mrs C disagreed with 
the adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
This PPI sale took place a long time ago, so its not that surprising that some of the 
paperwork completed then isnt still available. And theres no record of what was said to 
Mr R or Mrs C at the time. In these circumstances, I need to decide what I think is most likely 
to have happened, based on all the information which is available, including what I know 
about similar sales by Lloyds at around this time.
Mr R and Mrs C say that they werent made aware of the PPI policy at the time and that it 
was added automatically and without their knowledge.
Lloyds have provided a copy of the mortgage application which Mr R and Mrs C signed at 
the time. Theres a section in this dealing with PPI. A number of questions have been 
answered in this section of the form concerning their eligibility for the PPI policy. And I can 
see that joint PPI cover has been selected on a 50:50 basis. 
Lloyds have also provided a copy of the mortgage offer made to Mr R and Mrs C. And I can 
see that theres a section in this that shows the monthly cost of the PPI  separately to the 
monthly mortgage repayments figure. This section also shows the basis of the cover being 
provided.
So, from what Ive seen, Ive no strong reason to think that Lloyds departed its normal 
practice of making it clear that the PPI was optional during the meeting with Mr R and Mrs C.And I think that they actively decided to take the policy knowing they could choose not to. 
But as this all happened a long time ago, I can understand why Mr R and Mrs C might not be 
able to recall this now.
From the information Ive seen about this PPI sale, I think that Lloyds recommended the 
policy to Mr R and Mrs C. This means that it needed to ensure that the PPI policy was 
suitable for them. I dont know all the steps Lloyds took to ensure that this was the case. But 
from what I know about Mr R and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason 
why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say this because:
 
Mr R and Mrs C appear to have been eligible for the policy and dont seem to have 
been affected by any of its main exclusions and limitations.
 
Mr R and Mrs C say they were both eligible for generous sick pay and redundancy 
payments from their employers at the time, and that they also had some savings. So 
they dont think they needed the PPI policy or would have benefited from it. But they 
chose to take out the policy, so it looks as if they valued the cover it provided. The 
policy would have paid out for up to twelve months if one of them was unable to work 
because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. And it would have paid out in 
addition to any other means of making their mortgage repayments that they might 
have had at the time. A mortgage is also a big financial commitment  one where 
your home is potentially at risk if the monthly repayments cant be made. So I still 
think that Mr R and Mrs C would have thought the extra security the policy gave them 
was worth paying for.
 
Ive no reason to think the policys monthly cost of £18.10 was unaffordable for 
Mr R and Mrs C. And as the premiums were paid monthly, it could have been 
cancelled by them if it no longer met their needs.
 
Lloyds also needed to give Mr R and Mrs C enough clear information about the policy for 
them to decide if they wanted it. I think its possible that the information it gave them could 
have been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was 
unsuitable for Mr R and Mrs C, I dont think that better information would have changed their 
minds about buying it. I think theyd still have thought that the policy provided useful cover at 
an affordable price.
So I dont think that Mr R and Mrs C have lost out by anything that Lloyds may have done 
wrong when it sold them this PPI policy.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr R and Mrs Cs representative has said about why they 
still think the PPI was mis-sold. But this doesnt change my mind about not upholding their 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding this complaint against 
Lloyds Bank Plc.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2020.Simon Furse
Ombudsman