DRN-1995868
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that the Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (RLUM) 
Limited advised them to invest too much money in an unsuitably risky product in 2000, given 
they were inexperienced investors, in poor health and had just received this money.
What happened
When Mr and Mrs F meet the advisor they were 57 and 54 respectively, and retired (both 
due to ill health). They had a joint monthly income of around £850 from incapacity benefits, 
with their monthly outgoings recorded at around £650. They had an outstanding endowment 
mortgage of £14,000 with five years left to run. They had around £33,000 in savings, mainly 
due to an inheritance, and were advised to invest £15,000 of this.
They surrendered the investment in 2015 to help with their daughters wedding costs and for 
general household expenditure.
An investigator at this service felt it was not unreasonable to recommend investing around 
45% of their savings in the hope of achieving a higher return than that on offer via typical 
savings accounts. But while the fact find recorded that they were prepared to take a 
balanced risk with this money, he didnt feel this was good advice given they had no 
investment experience. He said hed seen no evidence that other, less risky options were 
discussed and didnt feel they would have wanted to take the degree of risk associated with 
a medium risk investment.
He therefore felt RLUM should compare the return they received with what they might have 
got via a more suitable low or cautious risk investment. If this showed a loss, it should pay 
compensation on this basis. He laid out the formula for such a comparison. 
Mr and Mrs F accepted this but RULM did not, saying:
It views the Platinum Plus (with-profits) bond as suitably cautious
Mr F was also investing £100 a month into a medium risk growth fund (via his ISA)
The advisor recommended he increase this to £150 based on his balanced risk 
attitude
Balanced was the maximum risk was Mr F was prepared to take but the majority of 
his funds were in the lower risk bond
In 2011 the advisor recommended Mrs F invest in a cautious risk unit trust product; 
Mr F was then assessed as being risk-averse and recommended to invest in a trust, 
it considers as low risk due to its asset spread, which he has since complained about
 
The investigator did not alter his view that the Platinum Plus bond was unsuitably risky, 
pointing out that the bond had a 68% exposure to equities at the point of advice. He 
maintained that this exposed too much of their money to risk given theyd had no previous exposure of what this might mean to their capital. While the bond had reduced its exposure 
to 41% by 2013 he still believed the initial advice had been unsuitable.
RLUM did not agree, saying:
With-profits funds were a traditional route into investment for first-time investors, 
often via endowment policies
Mr and Mrs F already had two endowment policies at the time of advice but as they 
were looking for a lump sum investment a further endowment policy was not suitable
The Platinum Bond Plus was a relatively new part of the product range  designed to 
allow savers a lower risk alternative to unit trusts once they had made the decision 
that they wanted to consider investments outside of the bank / building society range 
of savings accounts
The makeup of the with-profit fund changes over time; it is a fund that will shelter 
customers from the day-to-day ups and downs of the markets (via smoothing  as 
explained in the brochure)  giving them confidence to hold the investment for the 
longer term
 In times of deep or prolonged falls the fund can have a Market Value Reduction 
(MVR) applied  as happened when Mr and Mrs F sold their investment
This is entirely different from the UK Growth Trust which varies up or down in line 
with the underlying shares on a daily basis and doesnt have the diversification of the 
Platinum Bond (or offer smoothing)
It believes Mr and Mrs F would have been aware of the differences in the types of 
investment when they chose the Platinum Bond Plus as they saw it fine to invest 
£100 per month into the UK Growth Trust but not the £15,000 lump sum.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In this case I agree with the adjudicator 
and mainly for the same reasons.
Firstly, it is important to say that I have not considered whether the earlier advice to take out 
an endowment or endowments was suitable. Customers were widely recommended to take 
out interest-only mortgages with an endowment designed to pay off the lump sum in the 80s 
and 90s. I therefore dont consider the fact that Mr and Mrs F had at least one endowment 
mortgage an indication that they had any investment knowledge or expertise.
Secondly, Mr and Mrs F have separately complained that the advice to invest in a balanced 
risk growth fund was also inappropriate so I dont consider this investment relevant to the 
merits of their complaint about the Platinum Plus bond. I have not assessed the suitability of 
the growth fund recommendation and therefore whether the Platinum bond is less risky than 
the growth fund isnt relevant to this complaints merits.
I have solely considered Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances and likely objectives in 2000, 
whether the recommendation to invest £15,000 in the bond was reasonable and whether 
they were in a fully informed position to decide whether to go ahead with it. All this given that 
they had no real investment experience or knowledge.
My first concern is that Ive seen no persuasive evidence to indicate that the advisor fully 
explored Mr and Mrs Fs attitude to risk by, for example, using a risk-based questionnaire. And I dont believe his subsequent recommendations letter satisfactorily explains the 
significant risk to their capital of a medium or balanced risk investment. So I dont believe if it 
was appropriate to recommend anything which posed more than a small risk to a modest 
percentage of their capital. 
While they were left with £17,000 plus after these recommendations I dont believe the 
evidence indicates they were in a position to replace any lost capital. Given their ages, 
situation and limited income, this should have been a key consideration. As such, I am not 
convinced it was appropriate to put such a high portion of their capital at risk at all. But for 
reasons I shall explain later, I am satisfied the investigators proposed compensation formula 
is fair and reasonable.
In this context, I have considered whether the Platinum Plus bond posed more risk to this 
very substantial portion of their irreplaceable capital than they should have been advised to 
take. In doing so I have not sought to deliver a verdict on the technical risk level of the bond 
 whether it is more accurately described as balanced or low risk - merely to assess whether 
on balance it was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs F.
As such, I dont believe they should have been advised to invest in a product where more 
than two thirds of their money, at the outset, was exposed to equities. While the investigator 
referred to 68% being invested in equities, in fact the overall percentage of Mr and Mrs F 
exposed to market risk was even higher  at the outset  with an additional 10% in property 
and other assets. This left just 22% in fixed-interest assets. Further, this was a lump sum 
investment which, in itself, posed a greater risk to their money than small, regular payments 
over a lengthy period of time, so I dont accept that the smoothing process in itself 
significantly reduced the risk to make it suitable for Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances and likely 
objectives.
Crucially, I have seen no evidence to indicate that the advisor fully explained the risk Mr and 
Mrs F were taking via this bond, including the risk of a Market Valuation Reduction, which 
could significantly impact on their capital. Having, in my view, failed to fully explore their 
attitude to risk in the fact find meeting, it would have been crucial to spell out in detail just 
how much risk to their capital they were taking via his recommendation to ensure they 
wanted to take such a risk, or if so whether they were happy to invest nearly half their 
capital.
Given Ive seen no evidence to suggest these things took place, I am satisfied Mr and Mrs F 
were not in a position to make a fully informed position to go ahead with the investment. If 
fully and fairly advised, I believe they would not have wanted to take more than a small or 
very small risk with this portion of their capital. 
As such, I believe the investigators proposed redress  based on a 50/50 comparison with 
fixed rate bonds and a FTSE Index  provides a fair and reasonable resolution of this 
complaint. This formula constitutes an overall risk of little more than 25% of ones capital as 
the Index itself includes substantial risk-free or near risk-free (corporate bonds etc.) 
elements.
Putting things right
I therefore uphold this complaint and instruct Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited to pay compensation by comparing the return Mr and Mrs F received on their 
Platinum Plus bond with what they would have got via the low risk formula typically 
recommended by this service. That is, an equal combination of the returns as shown by the 
Bank of Englands fixed-rate bonds of 12 to 17 months maturity and those shown by the 
FTSE Private Investors Total Income Return Index.If this shows a loss it should pay this figure and add 8% simple interest per annum from the 
date of surrender to the date of settlement of this complaint. Any early withdrawals should be 
taken into account.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Royal  London Mutual Insurance Society Limited to pay 
compensation as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
Tony Moss
Ombudsman