DRN-1690886
The complaint
The late Mr B was unhappy with the increases in premiums on his home insurance held with 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds).
The late Mr B is represented by his daughter Ms L. For ease, going forward Ill refer to the 
late Mr B simply as Mr B.
I would like to add, Mr and Mrs B were both named on the insurance policy, but Mrs B sadly 
passed away before this complaint was brought to our service. And Mr B sadly passed away 
while the complaint was with our service. 
So although I have referred only to Mr B in this decision, I recognise this complaint has been 
brought on behalf of both Mr and Mrs B.
What happened
In 2014, Mr B took out a home insurance policy. The policy was underwritten by Lloyds and 
started in February 2014. It provided buildings and contents insurance cover.  It initially cost 
£388.71 for the year. 
In 2015, the annual premium was £464.66.
In December 2015, there was a claim for storm damage with Lloyds paying out £4,152.95. 
This reduced the no claims discount (NCD) on the policy from 35% to 25% for the 
building's insurance at 2016s renewal.
In January 2016, there was engagement over the renewal price and a £77.94 discount was 
applied to 2016s premium. 2016s premium cost £562.38 
In February 2017, the premium reduced to £471.16 and in February 2018, the annual 
premium increased to £553.96. 
In August 2018, Mrs B passed away, and Ms L helped Mr B with some of his financial affairs 
visiting a local branch in the process. Home insurance was mentioned, and it was agreed 
that Lloyds would send Mr B a quote for insurance. The quote that was generated was for 
the same cost that Mr B was already paying  around £550.
Ms L then looked online, inputting her fathers insurance details while making some minor 
variations, such as removing some valuable items. Ms L was shocked when she discovered 
that Mr B could get home insurance through Lloyds for around £400 cheaper.
As a result the existing policy with Lloyds was cancelled and a new policy was taken out.
Ms L thought Lloyds had taken advantage of Mr B as he was elderly and trusted Lloyds to 
give him the best price. Ms L says Mr B wasnt able to shop around and use the internet to 
get the best price and Lloyds should have done more for him.Ms L says Mr B was charged too much and should be reimbursed for the extra she 
considers he had paid over the years. 
Lloyds looked into the complaint. It said that the premiums charged over the years were 
correct. It also explained that the new policy Mr B had taken out was for a newer product it 
sold that became available in June 2016 and with this policy a consumer could choose their 
own level of cover and excesses and the home insurance also came with a new customer 
discount.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, the matter was referred to our service. 
Our investigator thought Lloyds hadnt treated Mr B unfairly. As Ms L disagreed, the matter 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to 
Ms L, so Id like to explain why.
First, I would like to make it clear that I dont have the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. 
But I can look at whether Lloyds had treated Mr B fairly during the time he held his policy. 
Its not unusual for the cost of an insurance policy to change at each renewal. And there can 
be several, legitimate reasons for this. But as most policies automatically renew if a 
consumer doesnt stop it, a consumer who doesnt engage with the renewal process or shop 
around can find they are paying much more for their cover than a new customer. 
An insurer hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing the premium at renewal but 
where they knew, or ought reasonably to have known, the consumer wasnt engaging with 
the renewals process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these 
consumers fairly  and that they didnt take advantage of the consumers behaviour by 
increasing their premiums just because someone wasnt engaging. So Ive looked into the 
policy Mr B held with Lloyds to see what happened.
Lloyds has explained that when Mr B took out the policy in 2014 it included an introductory 
discount. It isnt uncommon for insurers to initially price a policy at a lower cost than the true 
cost associated with the risk of insuring a property. This is to attract new customers. Insurers 
aim to keep the consumer and recoup that cost over the subsequent years. I dont think this 
unfair. 
With Mr Bs policy, Lloyds says the gradual increases in the premiums each year, were due 
to the initial discount being recouped and alongside the increases in Insurance Premium 
Tax. 
Lloyds says that by 2018 it still hadnt fully recouped the discount that had been initially 
applied. It says the increases each year were to bring the policys cost up to the true cost of 
the risk associated with insuring the property, alongside the levels of cover provided, under 
the policy.There was also the claim made in 2015 for storm damage which would have had an impact 
on the NCD on the buildings insurance going forward.  And Im also mindful there was also 
engagement over the renewal cost in 2016.
So there were reasons for the home insurance cost going up  and there had also been 
engagement over the cost of the policy with a discount being offered. This means the cost 
going up wasnt simply because Mr B wasnt engaging with the cost of the policy at each 
renewal.
I appreciate that Ms L ultimately obtained another Lloyds insurance policy online for Mr B for 
less and feels this shows Mr B was being treated unfairly and was paying too much. I can 
understand why she thinks this.
But the new product taken out online, was Lloyds newer insurance product that only 
became available in 2016. 
As explained earlier, policies taken out now often come with a significant initial discount, with 
insurers aiming to keep the consumer and recoup the discount over the following years. 
Consumers can also choose from various levels of cover and can also choose what limits 
and excesses they wish to have. 
More recently, online practices and comparison websites have meant ever more competitive 
prices. And some consumers can now manage their policies online meaning less 
administrative costs to insurers  with the resulting savings being applied to reduce the cost 
a consumer pays for cover.
These things combined mean that the cost of insurance can be markedly different in price for 
a policy taken out now, compared to one taken out several years ago. The cost of insurance 
taken out now can also vary significantly from policy to policy and insurer to insurer.
So while Ms L obtained a policy for Mr B for less now, for the reasons explained above, I 
dont think it would be fair to compare the cost of that recent policy with the policy taken in 
2014.
Ms L thinks Lloyds had an obligation, as Mr B was a loyal customer, to treat Mr B fairly. As 
Mr B didnt use the internet, Ms L says he was disadvantaged as he was unable to shop 
around to get a better price, and Lloyds should have done more. 
Lloyds did have to treat Mr B fairly, but in respect of the policy he held. And in this case, I 
think Lloyds has treated Mr B fairly. It has treated him the same as any other policyholder 
with the same policy. And in its role as an insurer, I dont think it would be fair to say Lloyds 
should need to make sure someone (or all of its policyholders) has the cheapest policy 
available.  
Put simply, Mr B took out Lloyds policy. So Lloyds need to make sure it treated him fairly in 
respect of that policy. It didnt have to make sure Mr B got the best deal year on year.
I do understand Ms Ls frustrations, as she obtained another policy online for Mr B with 
Lloyds that was cheaper. Customers who shop around year on year often get better deals. 
But it is important for Ms L to know that Lloyds wasnt a broker  whose obligations were to 
shop around each year for its consumers. Lloyds provided an insurance policy  and later on 
introduced another product  that was different to its existing one. Theres no requirement for 
Lloyds to automatically switch its existing customer base on to the new policy  indeed, this 
might not be right for all customers.There are now rules (that were introduced in 2017) that say insurers should, in the renewal 
invitation, encourage their customers to shop around if theyve had their policy for a number 
of years. These didnt exist when Mr B took out his policy with Lloyds and even if they had, 
they dont go as far as to say insurers need to tell their customers about alternative products. 
So I dont think Lloyds needed to tell Mr B when the new product was introduced in 2016.
Overall, Lloyds has shown that the increases in Mr Bs premiums were due to it recouping 
the initial discount applied. And as Ive said, I think its fair for an insurer to do this. There 
was also the claim which affected the NCD and engagement over the cost of the policy in 
2016 which resulted in a discount being applied. 
So I think Lloyds has treated Mr B fairly in respect of the policy taken out in 2014. 
While Ms L shopped around in 2018 and found a cheaper policy it doesnt automatically 
mean Lloyds had treated Mr B unfairly with the policy taken out in 2014.
Ms L in her testimony has alluded to other policies held prior to 2014. This decision only 
looked at the policy taken out in 2014. If Ms L wishes to complain about any other policies 
taken previously, she needs to contact the relevant insurer and allow it to investigate any 
concerns she has.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L, on behalf 
of the estate of Mr B, to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman