DRN-1636780
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited have charged him interest on a 
buy-now-pay-later (BNPL) purchase. 
What happened
Mr S bought a laptop through Shop Direct for almost £400. After some discussion with Shop 
Direct, Mr S got this on a BNPL deal. If Mr S paid off the full amount by 16 August 2019, he 
wouldn't be charged any interest.
Mr S hadn't paid any of the around £400 back by 16 August 2019, so Shop Direct applied 
interest for the year, as per the terms of the deal.
Mr S complained to Shop Direct. He said he'd assumed a direct debit had been set up to pay 
off the debt within the year from the date of purchase, so avoiding any interest charges.
Shop Direct maintained that they'd applied the interest correctly, so Mr S complained to us. 
Our investigator looked into it and didn't think Shop Direct had done anything wrong.
Mr S disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S tells us that when he agreed with Shop Direct that he'd buy the laptop on a BNPL deal, 
he provided his bank details. And he assumed this meant a direct debit would be set up. So 
he was surprised when Shop Direct asked him for repayment - with the annual interest 
added.
Shop Direct have provided evidence to show no direct debit was ever set up. And there's no 
evidence Mr S ever asked to pay by direct debit. Mr S admits as much himself when he says 
he "assumed" a direct debit would be set up.
Mr S had an on-line account with Shop Direct, This showed monthly statements. Each 
statement showed the full amount still to pay. The final two statements before the end of 
the BNPL period contain specific, clear and prominent reminders about the due date for the 
full payment.
Mr S tells us he had some trouble accessing his account. He's not explicitly said this was for 
the whole year. And audit trails provided by Shop Direct show him accessing the account 
more recently. 
If Mr S couldn't access his account for a whole year, I'd expect him to have raised this with 
Shop Direct until ti got resolved. Shop Direct say they have no records of any such contact. If Mr S was persistently trying to get access to his online account throughout the year, I'd 
expect there'd be evidence of this. And I'd expect that Mr S might have asked Shop Direct to 
provide paper statements and/or tell him over the phone what his balance was.
Account information provided by any of those means would have made it clear to Mr S that 
there were no direct debit payments being made.
Even if Mr S didn't have access to account information for the whole year - and did allow that 
situation to persist without making efforts to have his statements delivered by other means - 
his bank statements would have made it clear that there was no direct debit payment to 
Shop Direct.
Mr S tells us he doesn't check his bank statements. That's his choice. And I'm not going to 
hold Shop Direct responsible for the fact he doesn't know whether there's a direct debit set 
up to pay his debt to them.
In summary, Mr S freely entered a BNPL agreement with Shop Direct, the terms of which 
were clear. He didn't pay off the debt within the agreed time frame. And Shop Direct are 
entitled to charge the interest they've added to Mr S's account.
Shop Direct have done nothing to hide the state of Mr S's account from him. He was, or 
should have been, aware that he hadn't paid off any of the amount owing before the 
deadline. And I can't see that Shop Direct have acted in any way unfairly or unreasonably in 
their dealings with Mr S.
For the sake of completeness, I should say that I am aware of one conversation Mr S has 
with Shop Direct where they advised that he might want to pay at least the minimum 
payment - to avoid further charges - whilst his complaint to them and then to us was being 
considered. Mr S has represented this as Shop Direct refusing an offer of full payment.
However, this conversation took place after the deadline for Mr S to pay the amount under 
his BNPL deal. So it has no bearing at all on the crux of Mr S's complaint - he had already 
incurred the interest charges by then. It also seems to me that in that context, it was 
perfectly reasonable advice.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding Mr S's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman