DRN-4252726
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax made a mistake about how 
much more hed need to borrow to buy his new home. This mistake was only discovered 
after Mr S was committed to the purchase, with difficult consequences for Mr S.
What happened
Mr S had an existing mortgage with Halifax. In 2022, he decided to move, buying a new 
property from a developer who would purchase his old home in part exchange. Mr S asked 
Halifax for a new mortgage for his new purchase, and lending was agreed. 
Mr S now knows that when Halifax worked out how much he would need to borrow, in order 
to buy his new home, it treated all of the payment he was getting for his old home as a 
deposit on the new property. But Mr S still had a mortgage with Halifax for his old home, and 
that would need to be repaid out of the sale proceeds, before any remainder could be used 
towards the purchase of his new home. 
Mr S said his solicitor told him a few days before his sale and purchase were due to go 
through, that he was short around £130,000. Mr S said at this point, he was committed to the 
transaction, and legally obliged to go through with it. He contacted Halifaxs mortgage 
advisor, who initially denied there was a mistake, but then accepted this, right before the 
purchase. 
Mr S said he had to borrow from family and his partner to complete the purchase. He paid off 
the finance agreement on his car, at considerable cost, with money borrowed from family. 
That allowed Halifax to increase its lending to him. And Mr S then bought the property, as 
intended and previously agreed. But he says he now has no savings, a much higher debt, 
and a very significantly longer term on his mortgage. He also faced having to sell his car, to 
pay back the loan his family had provided to him. 
Mr S said if hed realised how much this property would actually cost him, hed have looked 
for a different place to purchase. 
Halifax has shown us that it initially made an offer to Mr S on 14 October 2022 to borrow at 
total of £206,995, on a 13 year loan with a monthly payment of £1,580.66. Then, not long 
before he purchased his property, it issued a revised offer. That offer of 15 December 2022 
was to borrow a total of £292,165 on a 21 year loan, with a monthly payment of £1,581.06. 
Halifax says it does think this revised lending is affordable for Mr S.
Halifax has accepted that it was responsible for the original error here, because when its 
mortgage advisor told Mr S how much hed need to borrow to buy his new home, he omitted 
to allow for the old mortgage to be paid off. But Halifax said the shortfall would be around 
£109,000 which was needed to pay off the old mortgage, not £130,000.
Halifax said it was sorry. It understood Mr S had to borrow from family in order to repay his 
car finance, which allowed Halifax to increase the lending it could make to him. And hes 
also had to take a large cash gift from his partner, to go ahead with the purchase. 
Halifax said it would pay Mr S £1,000 in compensation, and it would reimburse him the 
amount of £23,570 which hed borrowed from family to pay off his car finance, and needed to 
repay them urgently. Halifax also said that if Mr S didnt want to keep this expensive 
property, then Halifax would waive the Early Repayment Charge (ERC) on his mortgage if 
he sold the property to downsize, although Mr S has said he doesnt plan on moving.
Halifax has shown us it has made these payments. It thought this provided a fair outcome to 
this complaint. It said it wouldnt simply pay Mr S the £109,000 shortfall, to reduce his 
borrowing to the amount hed originally planned to take. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said he could understand 
why what happened would have been a shock to Mr S, and it was clear that Halifax had 
made a mistake. But our investigator said he wasnt clear why this mistake wasnt picked up 
until so close to the time of purchase, because the offer Halifax sent to Mr Ss solicitors 
explained that Mr Ss previous mortgage did need to be repaid. Our investigator said he 
didnt think Halifax was solely to blame here. 
Our investigator said hed looked at the impact of this mistake, and what Halifax had done to 
try to put things right. He said Halifax had paid £1,000 in compensation, and also made a 
very significant payment of £23,570 so Mr S could keep his car. That would mean he could 
repay the loan from his family which had cleared the car finance, without having to sell the 
vehicle. Instead, hed own it outright.
Our investigator said Mr S wanted Halifax to pay the whole of the shortfall, but our service 
doesnt aim to punish or fine businesses. We try to return customers to the position theyd 
have been in if the mistake didnt happen. But he said that wasnt possible here, because Mr 
S had sold his old property and bought the new one. Our investigator didnt think Halifax had 
to cover the whole of the shortfall for Mr S. He noted that Halifax had agreed to waive the 
ERC if Mr S wanted to move in future. So Mr S could, if he wanted to, sell this property, get 
his savings back, and then buy somewhere cheaper, although our investigator accepted Mr 
S might not want to do that, and there would be other costs if he did.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he had expressed doubt about the figures, but was told by the 
mortgage advisor that they were right. And he said hed complained to his solicitors, who 
were currently investigating. 
Mr S said hed have preferred not to get a single penny from Halifax, as the right thing to do 
would have been to let him go. Mr S said that he could provide further evidence of this 
mistake. Because no agreement was reached, this case was then passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr S has offered our service further evidence of Halifaxs mistake. Ive not asked to see that, 
because Halifax has accepted that what went wrong here was something it caused. So what I think I need to look at here, isnt whether Halifax caused this problem. It is, as our 
investigator said, partly to do with whether someone else involved in this purchase, such as 
Mr Ss solicitors, should have alerted him to this error earlier. And its mainly about whether 
what Halifax has done provides a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ss complaint against 
Halifax.
Like our investigator, I do think its unfortunate that this mistake wasnt spotted at all until so 
close to the date of completion, and after Mr S was committed to the sale. Our service 
doesnt look at complaints against solicitors, so I dont think it would be appropriate for me to 
comment on whether this error should have been discovered before Mr S was committed to 
the sale and purchase. But I do agree with our investigators core point here, which is that 
whilst Halifax is responsible for the original error, its not solely responsible for this not being 
discovered before Mr S was committed to this purchase.
As our investigator said, when a mistake like this has been made, our service would think 
about whether we ought to put Mr S back in the position he would have been in, if the 
mistake hadnt been made. But here, whilst I think the original error was Halifaxs, I havent 
been able to see that its entirely Halifaxs fault that this wasnt discovered earlier, while Mr S 
could still safely and easily back out of this transaction.
And I also have to bear in mind that putting Mr S back in the position he would have been if 
no mistake had been made here, would be a very difficult thing to do. Mr S has bought a 
property which he says, if this mistake hadnt been made, he wouldnt have purchased. He 
now owes more on that property, and hes told us his partners savings have been used up 
in the purchase. Whilst hes paying the same amount each month for his mortgage payment, 
he will now need to make those payments for considerably longer than initially planned.
Mr S has told us that if this mistake wasnt made, and hed known from the start how much 
he would really need to borrow, he wouldnt have bought this property. He wouldnt be living 
in this property now, hed have found somewhere else, cheaper. 
So the only way to put Mr S back in the position he would have been in, if the mistake hadnt 
been made, is for this property to be sold and Mr S then to buy somewhere cheaper, which 
would mean his mortgage could be brought back closer to the term originally envisaged. 
Mr S has been clear with Halifax and our service that he doesnt want to sell the property, 
and I can understand that. But I dont think that means its fair and reasonable to ask Halifax 
to pay all of the shortfall of around £109,000 which it only identified late in the day. I think 
that, both because it isnt solely Halifaxs fault that this mistake wasnt discovered earlier, but 
also because that wouldnt put Mr S back in the position he would have been in if the 
mistake hadnt been made. It would put him in the much better position, of owning a sizeable 
chunk of the equity in a property that he tells us, without Halifaxs mistake, he simply 
wouldnt have bought. 
Ive considered what Halifax has offered here. Its paid Mr S £1,000 in compensation, and 
has also paid a further £23,570 so Mr S can pay back the family loan he took to clear his car 
finance. That payment is a little less than a quarter of the additional mortgage borrowing Mr 
S has entered into, but the payment does mean Mr S now owns his car outright, so no 
longer has those monthly payments to meet. I hope that will assist Mr S in rebuilding his 
savings, or perhaps allow him to overpay on this mortgage so the term can be reduced. 
Having considered all of the above issues, I do think the payment Halifax has already made 
in this case, does represent a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. So I wont ask Halifax to do more than it has done already. And, although I understand that Mr S will be 
disappointed, that means his complaint wont be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman