DRN-4473382
The complaint
Mr D has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund him for a card transaction he 
didnt make.
What happened
Shortly after a transaction made using his Barclays debit card on 25 November 2022, Mr D 
blocked his card and reported what he believed was fraud to Barclays. Hed seen a 
transaction for £179 which he said hed not made.
Barclays believed this was an online transaction with the goods picked up at a local store 
close to Mr Ds home address. They continued to think hed made this transaction himself as 
they felt this wasnt part of a normal fraud pattern.
Mr D brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence but felt overall it was most likely Mr Ds card details 
had been compromised and used fraudulently. He asked Barclays to refund Mr D in the 
absence of further evidence hed requested from Barclays.
Barclays provided further evidence. Another investigator confirmed she believed the 
outcome remained correct. As Barclays hasnt responded further, this complaint has been 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ds complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
To help me come to a decision, Ive reviewed the evidence Barclays provided as well as 
what Mr D has told us. 
I believe these transactions were carried out by a third party and not Mr D. I say this 
because:
Mr Ds actions on discovering an unauthorised transaction had been made using his 
debit card are what youd expect to see. He reported this immediately to Barclays  
despite being told they could take no further action as the transaction had not been 
formally debited at that stage. He also blocked his card using the app.
Mr Ds use of his app shows he logged on in the morning and then in the evening 
when he spotted the disputed transaction.
Barclays evidence shows the card details only were used to make this transaction. 
There are many ways card details can be compromised enabling online transactions 
to be made.
I can see that the items ordered online were delivered to a local retail park. The 
retailer  where the goods were purchased  has premises there. However I cant 
see this provides sufficient evidence to show that the goods were ordered or picked 
up by Mr D.
Barclays evidence of the actual card transaction shows an error code. They havent 
explained what this means but I think this adds to the overall picture of the 
transaction being out of the norm.
Barclays has suggested this single transaction doesnt follow what they normally see 
when fraud is committed. They also note a credit was made to the account which 
enabled this transaction to be made. However the credit would appear to be Mr Ds 
regular wages, so I dont think these two things are related. Im also wary about 
stating that certain behaviour is specifically fraud-related behaviour or not. I see no 
reason  nor has Barclays provided anything  why this one-off transaction couldnt 
be regarded as fraudulent.
I can see Barclays identified a certain level of risk with retaining Mr D as a customer. This 
may be because there was fraud on the account within a short period of Mr D opening the 
account.
Overall I dont believe theres sufficient evidence to show Mr D authorised this transaction.
Putting things right
Barclays will need to refund Mr D for the disputed transaction and add simple interest to the 
amount at the normal rate.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Refund £179 to Mr D; and
Add 8% simple interest to this amount from 25 November 2022 to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman