DRN-2845291
The complaint
Mr G complains that Experian Limited holds incomplete and inaccurate information about 
him. Mr G would like Experian to either add the missing bank account to his records or 
remove his details entirely.
 
What happened
Mr G says that he has held an account with a business I will refer to as N since 1994 but 
this isnt reflected on his Experian credit report. Mr G is unhappy that Experian has told him 
to speak to N about this as he would prefer Experian to sort the problem out.
Experian says that certain information was missing from Mr Gs credit report because his 
address wasnt up to date. Once Mr G had updated his address, the missing accounts were 
added. However, Experian said that it couldnt see an open bank account held by Mr G with 
N  only one that was settled. 
Experian said that Mr G will have to speak to N as the age of the bank account may be a 
factor. Experian explained that it couldnt delete Mr Gs data entirely. 
The investigator didnt recommend upholding Mr Gs complaint. She thought it was 
reasonable of Experian to suggest that Mr G contact N about his bank account given the age 
of it. 
The investigator acknowledged that Mr G was worried about his credit score but didnt think 
this was due to any mistake by Experian. The investigator explained that she couldnt ask 
Experian to remove Mr Gs details from its records.
Mr G was unhappy with the investigators recommendation not to uphold his complaint. He 
says hes contacted N who says that due to the age of Mr Gs account, it cannot send the 
details to Experian. Mr G says hes not Experians customer and has no power over what it 
does or doesnt do.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first explain that this service resolves individual complaints  it would be for the 
regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority - to make decisions about the way the industry 
works. 
Mr G is concerned about the way in which credit reference agencies work more generally but 
I will focus on what mistakes if any Experian has made. And if it should do more to put things 
right.
Experian doesnt decide who stores data with it - broadly speaking its up to lenders to 
choose which credit reference agencies they use. And lenders are responsible for their own 
data. Its not Experians fault if a lender has chosen not to share data with it. 
Experian told Mr G that it didnt have any information about an active account with N that 
hed opened 35 years ago.  Given the age of the account, it was possible that the terms at 
the time didnt provide for the sharing of data with the credit reference agencies. I consider it 
was reasonable of Experian to suggest that Mr G take this up with N. 
Im satisfied that Experian has now updated Mr Gs address details. This means it is 
reporting information about an account in Mr Gs name with N that started in 2019 and was 
marked settled in 2020. Mr G has helpfully confirmed that this is the only account he holds 
with N. 
The issue seems to be about the reporting of the opening date of Mr Gs account with N and 
the fact its marked settled or closed. Another credit reference agency is reporting the same 
information about the account. This suggests that the problem lies with N, rather than 
Experian. It is for N to decide what data it shares, not Experian. 
I know that Mr G is frustrated as hes stuck in the middle but dont consider I can require 
Experian to do more. And I cant ask Experian to delete all the data that it holds about Mr G.
I understand that Mr G has complained to N and I hope that this resolves the problem. If it 
doesnt, Mr G can always come back to this service to complain about N. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman