DRN-3768338
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the settlement Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) offered 
her following an escape of water.
Mrs H had buildings and contents insurance with RSA. Her son, Mr H, represented her on 
this matter. Ill refer to both Mrs H and Mr H throughout my decision.
What happened
Mrs H suffered an escape of water from her boiler. She made a claim under her policy for 
the water damage to her sofa and carpet in the room directly below, and a sideboard which 
she said had previously been next to the sofa.
RSA tried to arrange a visit to inspect the damage. At first, Mr H said he didnt want RSA to 
visit and it should settle his mothers claim in cash. This position was repeated several times 
before Mr H agreed to a surveyor inspecting the damage. Because of the heated nature of 
the conversations, RSA sent two agents to inspect the property. 
RSA said that, once there, Mr H refused to let the agents check under the carpet for any 
damage to the underlay. Whereas Mr H said theyd wanted to cut a piece off the carpet. 
Having inspected the water damage, RSA said the carpet and sofa could be cleaned, and 
replacement wasn't necessary. The agents found no evidence of water damage to the 
sideboard, or any evidence that it had previously been situated next to the sofa. But, if the 
sideboard had been next to the sofa, RSA pointed out that any water damage had dried 
without evidence, so there was nothing to repair.
Because Mr H didnt want RSA to clean Mrs Hs carpet and sofa, he asked for a cash 
settlement. RSA agreed to pay what it wouldve cost it to do the work itself.
Mr H complained about the way RSA handled Mrs Hs claim, and the cash settlement 
amount it offered. He said RSA lied and treated him and Mrs H unfairly. Mr H asked for 
between £2,000 and £4,000 to settle the complaint about the claim and in recognition of the 
way they were treated.
RSA sent a final response to Mrs H saying it had made a fair offer and there was nothing 
more it could do in respect of her claim. Mr H brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think RSA had done anything wrong with its handling of Mrs Hs claim 
or its cash settlement offer. The evidence showed that Mr H didnt want RSA to clean the 
carpet and sofa, so our investigator thought RSA had made a fair offer to cash settle the 
claim based on its contractors costs in line with the policy terms and conditions. Our 
investigator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Mr H didnt agree. He said RSA hadnt treated Mrs H fairly, and he wanted compensation for 
lost work fees, the distress caused, the cost of travel, the time taken to travel to and from the 
property, and a cash settlement for replacement carpet and sofa.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Ive summarised the complaint above, so I wont repeat it here. Instead, Ill refer to the main 
topics of the complaint and give the reasons for my decision, saying what evidence Ive 
relied on where I think thats appropriate.
Firstly, Ill explain that both parties agree there was water damage following a leak from the 
newly installed boiler. Thats why RSA accepted Mrs Hs claim under her policy. 
Sideboard
RSA didnt agree that the sideboard showed any sign of water damage, and it didnt think the 
sideboard had been where Mr H said it was. Ive looked at the photos of the sideboard and I 
cant see any evidence of water damage. And, looking at the photos of the room where the 
water came through the ceiling, theres no evidence of marks in the carpet to indicate a 
heavy piece of furniture had been next to the sofa. Mr H hasnt provided anything to show 
there was water damage to the sideboard.
Im persuaded by the evidence that the sideboard was unlikely to have been damaged by 
the leak or, if it was, that the water has dried without leaving any lasting damage. Therefore, 
I wont be asking RSA to do any more about this part of the claim.
Carpet and sofa
RSA agreed there was water damage, but it said cleaning the carpet and sofa would restore 
them. Mr H didnt agree and wanted them replaced. I can understand that Mrs H would be 
upset about the water leaking onto her new carpet and sofa, but Im satisfied that RSA made 
a fair offer to clean the two items. And, if cleaning didnt work as well as expected, RSA said 
it would look into further cleaning or replacement. So, Mrs H wouldnt lose out by allowing 
RSA the chance to clean her carpet and sofa.
As it stands, Mr H wanted a cash settlement, so RSA made an offer in line with what it would 
cost to carry out the cleaning itself. The policy allows it to do that when Mr H, on behalf of 
Mrs H, declined its offer to carry out the work. Therefore, Im satisfied that RSAs cash 
settlement offer was fair. I see no reason to ask RSA to do any more than it has already 
offered to settle the claim.
I understand Mr H said the payment hasnt been made. To be clear, the payment would be 
made to Mrs H, the policyholder. However, if she thinks the payment hasnt reached her, 
shed need to ask RSA to look into that. If Mrs H accepted the cash settlement, Id expect 
RSA to pay it.
Claim handlingMr H said RSA treated him and Mrs H unfairly in its handling of the claim. He said RSA tried 
to cut pieces out of the carpet, lied to them, physically and emotionally abused them, and 
caused distress. 
Ive looked at what Mr H said and at RSAs record of events as they happened. RSA 
reported that Mr H refused to let its agents lift the corner of the carpet to check the underlay 
for signs of damage. Its possible Mr H misunderstood RSAs intent and thought it was going 
to cut a piece of carpet away. I think that wouldve been unlikely because then the carpet 
would be damaged beyond repair and need replacing. That wouldve been an additional cost 
to RSA which it couldve avoided. The evidence suggests RSA simply wanted to inspect the 
underlay.
Mr H hasnt provided any evidence that RSA lied to him or Mrs H, or anything to support his 
serious allegation of abuse. However, the surveyor acting on behalf of RSA reported 
receiving threats from Mr H, and further visits were carried out only when a second RSA 
agent could be present. Its clear from the evidence that the situation was heated, but it 
would be inappropriate for me to conclude that RSA did anything wrong without evidence to 
support Mr Hs allegation. 
As Ive said, I can understand that Mrs H wouldve experienced some distress having found 
water damage to her new furnishings. But the leak itself caused the damage and I havent 
seen anything in the evidence to suggest that RSA contributed to that distress. I see no 
reason to ask RSA to compensate Mrs H.
Mr H asked for payment to cover his lost work fees and travel. The policy was in Mrs Hs 
name, so RSAs responsibility was to her alone. I wont be asking RSA to pay anything to Mr 
H for any help he provided for Mrs H.
Overall, I havent seen any evidence that RSA handled this claim unreasonably or that its 
settlement offers were unfair.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman