DRN-3348317
The complaint
Mr P complains about the transfer of the defined benefits (DB) he held in the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says he was advised to transfer by Bob 
Little & Co Ltd (BL, the respondent business in this complaint) and another financial 
business (which Ill call Firm E). He believes that the advice provided was unsuitable for him 
which has resulted in him suffering a significant financial loss. 
Mr P is being represented by a third party but for ease Ill refer to all their comments as those 
of Mr P.
What happened 
In March 2016, Mr P s employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new DB 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits 
to a private pension arrangement. 
Mr P was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do so he contacted BL for 
advice. Mr P met with BL in July 2016, during which it completed a fact- find, gathering 
information about his circumstances and objectives. 
The fact-find noted that a discussion about the relative pros and cons of income drawdown 
and that personal pensions had been discussed. It also noted that (because BL didnt hold 
the relevant permission from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to advise on the 
transfer of his defined benefits in the BSPS) it would introduce Mr P to Firm E which would 
provide Mr P with advice. BL had an established business arrangement with Firm E, 
whereby Firm E would provide the pension transfer advice before referring the client back to 
BL for ongoing investment advice, and this arrangement was followed for Mr P. 
Firm E completed a transfer value analysis report (TVAS) and conducted a further fact find 
in a meeting with Mr P in September 2016. It provided Mr P with a suitability report, also in 
September 2016, advising him to transfer out of the BSPS to a personal pension plan. 
Shortly after, £207,306 was then transferred to the new personal pension and was invested 
with P in a cautious fund. Firm E charged Mr P £9,329 for the advice, which was equivalent 
to 4.5% of his transfer value. As the introducer, BL received £3,265.15 of this. Mr P was then 
referred back to BL for ongoing advice and the servicing of his pension.
Whilst Firm E provided advice on Mr P s BSPS pension, BL provided retirement planning 
advice to Mr P and in November 2016 Mr P met with BL to discuss potentially switching 
another of his personal pension plans to P. It later advised Mr P on a fund switch within his 
plan with P. 
In July 2020 Mr P complained to BL about the advice hed been given. He said BL had 
advised him verbally to transfer out of the BSPS during the meeting he had with it in July 
2016. He said he had relied on this advice when making the decision to transfer and he said 
the advice wasnt suitable. He also said, in the alternative, that BL was obliged to treat him 
fairly and have regard to his best interests both of which, Mr P said, it had failed to do. 
Finally Mr P said BL should be held jointly liable with Firm E for the advice it gave him and 
the losses hed suffered. By this time, Firm E had gone into liquidation. 
BL looked into Mr Ps complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It told Mr P it 
hadnt provided him with any advice to transfer his BSPS pension and that this was done by 
Firm E. It also said it wasnt jointly liable with Firm E for the advice it had given Mr P nor had 
Mr P provided any evidence in support of this particular allegation. BL said that its role was 
one of introducer and that introducers arent responsible for the advice given by a third-party 
adviser.
Mr P disagreed with what BL said so he made a complaint to this service. BL told us that we 
couldnt look into Mr P s concerns as the activity he was complaining about did not fall within 
our jurisdiction. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint, first considering the issue of our jurisdiction 
and was of the view the matter was one our Service could consider. However, our 
investigator didnt recommend the merits of the complaint should be upheld because she 
wasnt persuaded that BL had provided Mr P with any unsuitable advice or caused him any 
losses. Our investigator said she was satisfied the transfer had taken place because of 
Firm Es advice. 
BL disagreed with our investigators view on this services jurisdiction to consider the 
complaint but accepted her findings in respect of the complaints merits. Mr P accepted the 
jurisdiction findings but didnt accept the investigators view on the merits of his complaint. 
The complaint was passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given 
by the investigator; Ill explain why. 
Before I begin, Id like to be clear that my decision wont address every point or comment 
made by either Mr P or BL. I mean no discourtesy by this, and Id like to reassure all parties 
that I have considered all the comments and evidence theyve provided to our service. 
But my decision will only address what I see to be relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. 
Is this a complaint one this service can consider?
The rules about complaining to this Service set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. These are known as the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules and can be found in 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)s handbook.
DISP 2.3.1 says that we can only consider complaints relating to certain specified activities, 
including regulated activities and ancillary activities.Ancillary activity is defined in the FCA Handbook as:
An activity which is not a regulated activity but which is:
a) carried on in connection with a regulated activity; or
b) held out as being for the purposes of a regulated activity.
It isnt in dispute that BL carried out the initial fact-finding with Mr P, introduced Mr P to 
Firm E, and then provided advice after the transfer was completed. But fact-finding is not a 
regulated activity. Introducing is also not a regulated activity where the introduction is made 
to an authorised firm with a view to advice being provided or the exercise of discretion in 
relation to investments. This type of introduction is specifically excluded by Article 33 of the 
Regulated Activities Order. However, any ongoing advice provided after the transfer is a 
regulated activity although I understand no fault in that advice is alleged, nor any loss 
attributed to such a fault; this complaint is entirely about the events prior to the transfer 
advice and about the transfer advice itself.
The Handbook definition quoted above clearly allows that the ancillary link may exist both 
forwards and backwards in time. A firm may carry on ancillary activities in connection with 
regulated activities it intends to carry on in future as well as regulated activities it is in the 
process of carrying on or has already carried on. 
BLs letter of 2 June 2021 states that, from a legal perspective, there was no connection 
between the initial advice provided by Firm E and the ongoing advice by BL. As regards 
DISP and ancillary activities, I would agree that this link couldnt exist. DISP 2.3.1 states: 
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to 
an act or omission by a firm in carrying on [regulated activities] or any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them (my emphasis). The 
ancillary link must be between regulated activities and ancillary activities, both being carried 
on by BL. The complaint cant be brought within jurisdiction on the basis that BLs activities 
were ancillary to Firm Es regulated activities. If I were to accept that none of BLs activities 
prior to the transfer were regulated activities it would follow that, in order for the complaint 
about those activities to be within this services jurisdiction, they would need to have been 
ancillary to the ongoing advice provided.
I have considered whether the ancillary link between the introduction and BLs later ongoing 
advice on the personal pension plan with P can bridge Firm Es advice in this way. My view 
is that the ancillary nature of the activity, i.e. the degree to which it was supportive of, or 
gave rise to, the future ongoing advice didnt depend on that future advice being a certain or 
even likely outcome. It seems to me that in any case where Firm E did advise a member to 
transfer and servicing was then transferred to BL, there would be a clear connection 
between introduction, transfer advice, and ongoing advice, and that the first link in that chain 
would therefore be ancillary to the third. While I note the point that not all introduced clients 
came back to BL for ongoing advice, the nature of the introducer agreement was such that 
servicing would normally be transferred back to BL; that was the arrangement in this 
particular case and thats what subsequently happened. Its clear from the fact-find that BL 
discussed Mr Ps options with him in some detail, and it seems likely that both parties 
envisaged the introduction would lead to BL providing ongoing advice on these benefits 
later. So, it follows that I think BLs prior activities were ancillary to its later provision of 
ongoing advice.
In BLs letter of 2 June 2021 it stated that the complaint was about the advice to transfer and 
that this advice was provided by Firm E. It then stated that the introduction it made was not a 
regulated activity and therefore, No step taken by BL in relation to the introduction can therefore be an ancillary activity connected to a regulated activity because there is no 
regulated activity to which it can connect.
According to Mr P, BL did advise Mr P on a pension transfer (without regulatory permission) 
before introducing him to Firm E. Advising on a pension transfer has been a regulated 
activity since 2015, and in that sense the complaint (whether justified or not) relates to BL 
carrying on a regulated activity. But regardless of whether BL did actually arrange, or indeed 
advise upon, the pension transfer, I believe that this complaint falls within our jurisdiction. 
Thats because DISP 2.3.1 permits us to consider a complaint about acts or omissions that 
are an ancillary activity carried on in connection with a regulated activity. I dont agree with 
BLs position that there is no regulated activity to which the introduction can connect in this 
way. As Ive said, I believe there is an ancillary link between BLs prior activities and the later 
ongoing advice, and on that basis I believe we can consider the complaint about those prior 
activities. It doesnt matter that Mr P hasnt complained about the ongoing advice. All that 
matters is that there is a regulated activity to which the activities he has complained about 
are ancillary. It isnt actually particularly unusual for us to deal with complaints about acts or 
omissions in the carrying on of an ancillary activity where the consumer is not complaining 
about the regulated activity at all. So, I think BLs prior activities were ancillary to its later 
provision of ongoing advice.
For this reason, I think the complaint is within our jurisdiction regardless of whether or not BL 
went beyond its role of introducing into arranging or advising on the pension. DISP 2.3.1 
states that we can consider a complaint about acts or omissions that are ancillary activities 
carried on in connection with a regulated activity. Im satisfied that there is a regulated 
activity to which the introduction can be connected. As Ive said, I think there is an ancillary 
link between BLs prior activities and the later ongoing advice, and on that basis I believe we 
can consider the complaint about those prior activities. To my mind, it doesnt matter that 
Mr P hasnt complained about the ongoing advice. All that matters is that there is a regulated 
activity to which the activities he has complained about are ancillary.
The complaint
My understanding of Mr Ps position is that BL should be held liable because it went beyond 
its role of introducer. Mr P says it verbally advised him to transfer his pension and he relied 
upon that advice. Mr P also argues there was a joint venture between BL and Firm E and 
that BL did not treat him fairly or have regard to his best interests. Ill address each point in 
turn. 
Did BL advise Mr P to transfer?
BL did not have permission from the FCA to advise on the transfer of DB occupational 
pension schemes. For this reason, it had an arrangement in place with Firm E, where Firm E 
would provide advice on the transfer of the occupational scheme and the client would be 
referred back to BL for ongoing advice if the transfer went ahead. 
Having considered the available evidence, Im not persuaded that BL advised Mr P to 
transfer his BSPS benefits  Ill explain why. 
Its clear that Mr P met with BLs adviser in 2016 and that he wanted to discuss his BSPS 
pension. Ive looked at the paperwork completed at that time and I can see a fact find was 
done in Mr Ps initial meeting with BL which carried BLs branding. This stated that Mr P 
attended the office as like many other colleagues, [he] no longer trusts leaving the scheme 
in other peoples [sic] control.
The fact find notes also state:Client fully understands that although I can provide him with an overview of this pension 
options, we are unable to provide any advice on this matter and must be referred to  Firm 
E (4.5% charge).
An update recorded on this fact find on says Mr P has now had a chance to discuss his 
[BSPS] pension with [Firm E] and is in the process of transferring this into his own Personal 
Plan with [P].
Mr P says the that BL strayed into providing advice. But I dont think that discussing the 
advantages and disadvantages of a course of action in general terms can be considered to 
be advice. I say this because the fact find gives no indication that BL would be using this 
information to provide Mr P with advice directly, but instead identifies Firm E as the business 
who would provide advice. Whilst there is reference to the transfer, the evidence indicates 
this was an option to be discussed  the notes on the fact-find say Mr P is considering 
transferring his [BSPS] pension away from the scheme [my emphasis].  Considering doing 
something doesnt, in my view, amount to BL providing advice that Mr P should transfer. 
Whilst I appreciate that Mr P may not have differentiated between BLs actions and those of 
Firm E, I think BL was clear with him that it was Firm E was providing the advice. 
I accept that BLs adviser did a lot of the fact-finding with Mr P and discussed his objectives. 
But apart from the initial fact-finding document, the remaining work required to put Mr P in a 
position to transfer was completed by Firm E. Firm E met with Mr P and completed a further 
fact find, as well as a risk assessment, and gave a formal recommendation to Mr P in writing. 
So, I think there was a distinction in the two firms roles here, even if this wasnt fully 
appreciated by Mr P at that time. Mr P then confirmed he accepted Firm Es advice. Mr P 
has told us the transfer forms were later provided to him by BL and not Firm E but even if 
this was the case, this alone doesnt persuade me BL provided the advice.
Mr P has also said he was verbally encouraged by BL to transfer his pension in the initial 
meeting. I think its possible that BL was hoping that Firm E would advise Mr P to transfer 
out of the BSPS so it could receive the initial introducer fees and become the ongoing 
adviser and receive fees for this as well. And its also possible that Mr P believed BL was 
advocating for the transfer of his benefits. But I havent seen sufficient evidence which would 
allow me to reasonably conclude that BL gave Mr P a personal recommendation, either 
verbally or in writing. In my view, the evidence indicates that it was Firm E that advised Mr P 
to transfer out of the BSPS, not BL.
I have no way of verifying precisely what was said in the initial meeting, so I accept it is 
possible that BL strayed into giving Mr P verbal advice to transfer his BSPS benefits as Mr P 
has suggested. That being said, I dont think Mr P couldve done so based on those 
interactions alone. The transfer value quotation provided by the trustees of the BSPS stated 
that Mr P would be required to provide evidence that he had taken appropriate financial 
advice if he wanted to transfer his BSPS benefits to a flexible benefits scheme. 
This requirement was repeated in the transfer value discharge form, which further stated that 
Mr P would need to provide a signed confirmation from his adviser that such advice had 
been given. Firm E issued a suitability report addressed to Mr P recommending that he 
transfer out of BSPS. BL did not produce such a document as it did not give Mr P any formal 
advice in respect of his pension. So, Mr P couldnt have transferred out of BSPS based on 
the meeting he had with BL or any verbal advice he feels he was given  he wouldnt have 
been able to meet the trustees requirements. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied from the available evidence that it was Firm E that gave the advice 
that meant Mr P could transfer out of the BSPS. And I dont think BLs earlier involvement 
should automatically make BL liable for the suitability of the pension transfer advice provided 
by Firm E. It is my view that Firm E remains fully responsible for the advice it gave Mr P to 
transfer. I have nevertheless considered whether Mr P would have still opted to transfer his benefits 
out of the BSPS to a personal arrangement if Firm E had advised him not to transfer. Mr Ps 
representative says Mr P was persuaded to transfer based upon his interactions with both 
BL and Firm E. But on balance I dont think Mr P wouldve gone against the advice provided 
by Firm E. Mr P was an inexperienced investor and he tells us his main objective was to 
protect his benefits. So, if Firm E had provided Mr P with clear advice in writing against 
transferring, explaining why it wasnt suitable for him, I dont think Mr P wouldve acted 
against that advice purely based on his earlier discussion with BL. 
In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Es advice that ultimately 
enabled Mr P to transfer. If this advice was unsuitable, then I think Firm E is responsible for 
Mr Ps losses flowing from the transfer. 
Joint liability 
Mr P says a joint venture existed between BL and Firm E to facilitate Mr P transferring out of 
the BSPS and that both businesses remain jointly liable for any financial loss hes suffered. 
For the reasons Ive already set out above, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
BL liable for the advice given to Mr P to transfer his BSPS benefits. Although Mr Ps 
representative states that Mr P was verbally advised to transfer by BL and that the two firms 
were working together, Im satisfied Mr P transferred his BSPS benefits because Firm E 
advised him to do so, independently of BLs involvement. So, I think Mr Ps losses flow from 
Firm Es advice, rather than because of any interaction he had with BL. 
Mr P has also referred to a decision made by one of my colleagues which, he says, held that 
advisers without pension transfer permissions who introduced clients to advisers that had 
such permissions could be held jointly liable for the losses that arose from the advice given. 
The decision Mr P refers to relates to a situation where the advice given was closely 
interlinked; a situation that I dont think applies to this complaint. In that complaint my 
ombudsman colleague found that firm As actions went beyond the role of introducer, 
maintaining an active role in the proceedings throughout the advice stage and assisted the 
other firm with processing the transaction. For the reasons Ive given above, I dont think the 
same can be said to apply here to BL. Here we are only concerned with a single transaction 
 the transfer and the advice relating to that transaction. And as I have already said, I have 
not been able to establish that BL gave that advice. Advising on the transfer was entirely 
Firm Es responsibility and it was entirely open for it to advise Mr P against doing so. As I 
cant see BL influenced Firm E in any way I cant therefore fairly attribute any loss Mr P 
suffered to it.
Did BL treat Mr P unfairly or fail to have due regard to his best interests
Mr P has suggested that BL didnt treat him fairly or act in his best interests by partnering 
with Firm E. He says BL ought to have known that transferring out of a defined-benefit 
scheme was rarely the right thing to do. Instead, he said it endorsed the advice. Mr P has 
stressed that a number of customers seeking advice on their BSPS benefits were introduced 
by BL to Firm E and that all were advised to transfer. 
As I have said above, BL did not have the necessary regulatory permission to advise Mr P 
on the transfer of his BSPS benefits. So, BL could not have advised Mr P against 
transferring, based on what it may have generally known about the regulators starting 
position that it wont usually be in a customers best interests to transfer out. As BL didnt 
have the necessary permissions, it referred Mr P to Firm E, which was regulated by the FCA 
to provide pension transfer advice. I dont think BL could reasonably be expected to carry out 
further due diligence on Firm E, particularly as Firm E had the necessary permissions from 
the FCA to provide this advice. And, as a regulated adviser, it was also required to treat Mr P 
fairly, act in his best interests and provide him with suitable advice.Summary
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was BLs advice that ultimately led to 
Mr Ps decision to transfer out of the BSPS, without the actions of Firm E. I am also not 
persuaded that BL made an error or treated Mr P unfairly in the role it carried out. Because 
of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require BL to pay compensation to Mr P or to take any further action in response to this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman