DRN-2957091
Complaint
Mr V says that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly added overdraft charges to his overdraft 
after it failed to close his account.
Background
Mr V initially complained that Lloyds failed to close his account a number of years ago. But 
hes already been told why we cant look at that complaint. So this decision isnt looking at 
the circumstances behind Lloyds failure to close the account and is solely concerned with 
the overdraft charges added. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Vs concerns. She didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr V unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr V disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Vs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Lloyds charged Mr V over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Lloydss charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr V if it applied these interest, fees and charges to her 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Mr V was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were 
instances where Lloyds didnt treat Mr V fairly and reasonably. 
Ive seen Mr V says the account should have been closed. But Ive already explained why I 
wont be looking that in this decision. And having looked through Mr Vs statements 
throughout the period concerned, I can see that Mr V was crediting the account with funds, a 
packaged account fee was being debited and on occasion the odd transaction was being 
made from the account too. So I dont think it is fair or reasonable to expect Lloyds to have 
concluded the account had been abandoned when it was clearly being used for most of the 
time concerned. 
Im also mindful that Lloyds wont have known whether or not Mr V was using the insurance 
benefits for the packaged account either. And I think removing the overdraft facility from     
Mr V and defaulting the account, in circumstances when Mr V was transferring in funds could 
have led to the unintended consequence of Lloyds cancelling insurance cover Mr V was 
relying on. 
Id also add that Mr Vs statements dont appear to indicate that Lloyds may have unfairly 
charged Mr V in circumstances where it ought to have realised that he may have been 
experiencing financial difficulty either. So, in these circumstances, I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds to proceed with the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Vs 
overdraft. 
Having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mr Vs complaint. I 
realise that this will be very disappointing for Mr V. But I hope that hell understand the 
reasons for my decision and at least feel that his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman