DRN-2560479
The complaint
Mrs and Mr H complain about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited trading as 
Halifax handled their claim under their contents insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2020 Mrs and Mr H made a claim under their contents insurance policy with Halifax. 
They damaged their laptop which was valued at around £2,000. During a call with Halifaxs 
agent, they were told the settlement figure would be £1,969 with a £100 excess. Halifax later 
identified this was incorrect due to a limit of £500 for a high risk item which also had an 
excess of £200. However, when Halifax contacted Mrs and Mr H on 20 May 2020, it again 
said the settlement figure would be £1,969. On the same day, Halifax called Mrs and Mr H to 
advise them of the correct settlement figure.
Mrs and Mr H complained. They wanted Halifax to honour the higher settlement figure. Mrs 
and Mr H say they didnt receive the policy booklet which refers to the policy limits and this 
meant they didnt arrange adequate cover. They also were unhappy about the customer 
service they received during the claims process.
Halifax said that it accepted it provided poor service including causing delays by not 
appointing its agent when it was supposed to. It also noted that it twice confirmed the wrong 
settlement figure for the laptop. For its errors Halifax offered £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, but this was declined by Mrs and Mr H.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said the mistakes that Halifax made had caused 
Mrs and Mr H a great deal of distress during the claims process  he recommended 
increasing the compensation to £350. However, he didnt think Halifax were wrong for 
applying its policy limits to Mrs and Mr Hs claim. He said that whilst Halifax had given the 
wrong information about this twice, he thought the policy documents were reasonably clear 
about the limits that applied to high risk items.
Mrs and Mr H disagreed. So the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully noted all the representations made by Mrs and Mr H, but I wont be 
addressing every single point theyve raised. Ive instead concentrated on the issues I think 
are central to the outcome of their complaint.
The (2019) policy booklet wasnt sent to Mrs and Mr H as part of their renewal pack  
instead, they were told this could be accessed online. But they were sent a key features 
document which said that computers were subject to high risk item policy limits. And they 
were also sent a policy schedule, which said the limit for a single high risk item was £500 
minus £200 excess. Mrs and Mr H say a recent check of the policy booklet, shows confusing 
information in terms of the definition of a high risk item. But I can see the more recent 
booklet also includes computer equipment... under the definition of high risk item.
All in all, Im satisfied the policy documents sent to Mrs and Mr H prior to the policy starting 
and the booklet, which they could access from the Halifax website, made it clear that policy 
limits were applicable to their laptop, which reasonably falls within the definition of a 
computer and computer equipment. 
As this was a non-advised sale it was for Mrs and Mr H to read the policy documents to 
make sure they were happy about the policy they were buying. And if after reading the terms 
of the policy they didnt think they were adequately insured, they needed to contact the 
insurer to see if the limits could be increased  this is what the policy documents invited 
them to do. So taking all of this into account, I cant hold Halifax responsible if Mrs and Mr H 
werent adequately insured.
Mrs and Mr H say Halifax not getting the settlement figure right on two separate occasions 
shows the policy terms arent clear. But the initial mistake was because Halifax hadnt 
passed on the relevant information to its agents and on the second occasion, it corrected its 
mistake within a few minutes. On balance, I think the mistakes show poor customer service 
rather than being evidence of the policy documents being unclear.
Mrs and Mr H maintain that Halifax should honour the higher settlement figure. But I cant 
see that Halifaxs mistakes caused Mrs and Mr H financial loss or made them change their 
position in some other detrimental way. And as Ive set out above, Im satisfied the policy 
terms were clear about what high risk items were and what limits applied to them. Under 
these circumstances, I cant fairly ask Halifax to settle the claim any differently than that set 
out in the policy terms and conditions. My understanding is that Mrs and Mr H didnt accept 
the payment of the correct settlement figure when this was communicated to them. Under 
these circumstances, I cant hold Halifax responsible for the delay in settling the claim.
That said, I do think compensation is due for the distress and inconvenience caused. The 
claim took longer than it should have due to Halifax only appointing its agents once chased 
by Mr H. And it clearly caused upset when it gave Mr H incorrect information about the 
settlement figure. On balance, I think the amount recommended by our investigator of £350 
fairly compensates Mrs and Mr H for the distress and inconvenience caused by Halifax.
For all these reasons, Im upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to:
  
Settle the claim for accidental damage to Mrs and Mr Hs laptop in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy which was £500 minus £200 excess;
Pay Mr and Mrs H £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman