DRN-3898796
The complaint
Ms M complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) failed to credit a refund 
payment to her bank account, returned by her airline operator.  
What happened
Ms M says due to the Covid pandemic she was forced to cancel a flight to Australia and 
subsequently  arranged in late October 2021 with the airline operator (AO), for a refund of 
£757.40 to be made back to her bank account with Halifax. Ms M says the AO processed a 
refund in late November 2021, but it never appeared on her bank account, so she 
questioned this with Halifax. 
Ms M says Halifax returned the funds back to the AO as it couldnt allocate the payment 
without contacting her. Ms M says whilst she and her bank manager have attempted to 
contact the AO she has been unsuccessful in obtaining the refund. 
Ms M doesnt feel Halifax have done enough to help her locate the refund and recredit the 
monies to her bank account or treated her fairly in the process.  
Halifax says it acted in line with its process when it returned the refund made by the airline 
operators bank, as the payment was sent to a debit card number that had expired two years 
previously. Halifax says it has provided Ms M with the payment reference numbers she 
needs to arrange with the AO to identify and trace the payment. Halifax says it has acted 
correctly here but have accepted it didnt lodge Ms Ms complaint properly and have paid her 
£50 by way of an apology. 
Ms M wasnt happy with Halifaxs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Halifax had acted correctly when it returned the payment back to the airline 
operators bank, in line with its systems and processes, given the debit card account details 
the payment was sent to, had long since expired. 
The investigator says it wasnt for this service to look at the actions of the AO, only of the 
bank and she felt Halifax hadnt done anything wrong here. The investigator suggested Ms 
M contact the AO with the details of the two payment reference numbers previously provided 
to her, to enable the payment to be traced.  
The investigator while sympathetic to Ms Ms situation didnt feel Halifax need do anything 
more. 
Ms M didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating and upsetting for Ms M to learn a refund of a 
costly airline ticket had been refunded by the AO, only to be sent back by Halifax as it didnt 
recognise the payment reference details. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Halifax acted unfairly when it returned the 
refunded payment from the AO.
Ms M says Halifax havent treated her fairly as it returned the refund from the AO simply 
because it had quoted an expired debit card number and it should have referred this to her 
at the time. 
While I understand the points Ms M makes here, Im not fully persuaded by her argument. 
While I have some sympathy with Ms M, the issue here is that Halifax received the refunded 
payment from the AO quoting a debit card number that had expired nearly two years 
previously. I have received confirmation from Halifax detailing its process when a payment is 
received by them, and here I have been provided with evidence to show Halifax were only 
sent the 16-digit card number to allocate the payment, and as this card had expired two 
years previously, even though it attempted to, it simply wasnt able to trace the bank account 
the payment related to. 
Its worth adding here that banks like Halifax would receive a considerable number of 
payments each day and it is in part why it has a set process in those circumstances when 
payments like this cant be identified and so I cant say the actions it took here were 
unreasonable.  
I have seen evidence to show Halifax did return the payment back to the AOs bank on 27 
November 2021 in line with its set process and procedures, so its reasonable to say those 
monies have been correctly returned here. I can also see Halifax provided Ms M with the 
ARN and ROL account payment reference number which should enable the AOs bank to 
identify and trace the payment for her.  
With that in mind I cant say Halifax were at fault when it returned the payment to the AOs 
bank in line with its process and it has tried to support Ms M here by providing the relevant 
information to enable the AOs bank to trace the payment. 
I understand from the information sent to this service by Ms M, the latest correspondence at 
the end of January 2023 shows these reference numbers were provided to the AO and it 
was still looking into the matter. I do  hope this will enable the AOs bank to finally identify the 
whereabouts of the payment for Ms M. 
While Ms M will be disappointed with my decision, I wont asking anymore of Halifax. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 Barry White
Ombudsman