DRN-3102284
Summary and background to the complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as P, complains DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company 
Limited (DAS) unfairly turned down a rent guarantee claim it made on a property investors 
insurance policy.  
The facts of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Mr M, a director of brings the complaint on behalf of P.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
For a rent guarantee claim to be successful the policy requires that it is always more 
likely than not that you will recover damages (or obtain any other legal remedy which 
we have agreed to). In terms of percentages, I take this to mean the action must 
always have more than a 50% chance of being successful. The policy itself defines 
reasonable prospects, (of success), as being at least 51%. The panel lawyer DAS 
appointed said prospects of success of enforcement action against the former tenant 
was 50%.
P provided a report from an investigation company which suggested there was a 
51% chance of a successful recovery against the former tenant. DAS sent this to the 
panel lawyer, as I would have expected it to. The panel lawyer considered the 
information but wasnt minded to change its assessment of the success rate of the 
overall action. 
DAS itself is not a legal expert and therefore we usually dont think it unreasonable 
that insurers rely on the opinions of suitably qualified lawyers. I dont think it acted 
unreasonably by doing so in this instance. The lawyer has provided rationale for their 
assessment, referencing their own investigations and why it didnt believe the report 
provided changed its opinion. 
P has suggested the investigation companys report should be given equal weight as 
the panel lawyers assessment and therefore DAS should appoint another lawyer for 
a third opinion. I dont agree the report can be treated as being equivalent to a legal 
opinion on prospects of success - which is the standard normally required in policies 
like this. While a report of the same nature may form part of lawyers assessment or 
reasoning, it will not be the only aspect that is taken into consideration.
DAS said that should P wish to provide its own lawyers assessment on prospects of 
success of enforcement action as a whole, it will reconsider if the claim should be 
covered. I think this is a reasonable approach to take. 
For the reasons above, I think DAS has fairly applied the policy terms to Ps claim and it has 
acted reasonably in how it has dealt with the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ps complaint against DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman