DRN-3017497
The complaint
Mr F has complained about the amount of time that it took for The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited to make its recommendation about a transfer from his occupational 
pension scheme (OPS). As a result when he decided not to proceed with Prudential he had 
to pay another fee for an updated CETV (Cash Equivalent Transfer Value). Mr F is also 
unhappy that the recommendation made was not what he had requested.
What happened
Mr Fs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. The investigator set out the 
background to the complaint in his assessment of it which he sent to Mr F on 18 June 2021.
In brief, he said that Mr F had had a meeting with Prudential about the transfer in early 
December 2019, and it requested information from the OPS after the defined benefits 
scheme closed on 31 December 2019. The investigator said that the OPS sent Prudential 
the relevant scheme details on 31 January 2020. Further meetings were held and paperwork 
completed, then Prudential asked the OPS for some additional information on 4 March 2020. 
Prudential received the information from the OPS on 20 April 2020, and it discussed the 
potential transfer with Mr F on 24 and 25 April 2020. Mr F informed Prudential that he didnt 
want to proceed with its recommendation and subsequently withdrew from its process. Mr F 
then used another firm to investigate a transfer  a firm he had previously approached about 
it. But he had to pay the OPS £200 for an updated CETV.
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. His view was that 
Prudential wasnt able to provide a recommendation before it had received the scheme 
information it required which was on 20 April 2020. And it had then made its 
recommendation to Mr F within a few days of receiving that information, which the 
investigator thought was reasonable. The investigator said that he hadnt seen any 
persuasive evidence of Prudential causing unnecessary delays. So he didnt think it would 
be reasonable to recommend that Prudential re-imbursed Mr F for the cost of another CETV.
The investigator also said that although the recommendation that Mr F received from 
Prudential wasnt what he was hoping for, it was Prudentials duty to make a 
recommendation that it considered was aligned not only to Mr Fs objectives, but also his 
circumstances, attitude and capacity for risk. He thought Prudentials recommendation 
reflected how it felt Mr F could achieve his goals taking these other factors into account. The 
investigator said that based on everything hed seen, he thought Prudential had treated Mr F 
fairly. 
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators findings and therefore the case was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I accept that Mr F may have been led to understand that the transfer process 
would be completed by the end of March 2020 the time taken to complete a transfer will 
depend on its particular circumstances. Firms are obliged to process transfers in an efficient 
and timely manner, but its clearly not reasonable to hold a firm responsible for any delays 
that are outside of its span of control; for example where it is waiting on information from a 
third party.
Prudential has said that it didnt receive the CETV until 11 February 2020. This is consistent 
with its internal notes which show it chased the OPS for the CETV on 4 February 2020, and 
the OPS said it had sent it on 3 February 2020 by 2nd class post.
We asked Prudential what was happening with the transfer between Mr Fs meetings with it 
on 1 February and 3 March 2020. Prudential said it was unable to evidence any notes for 
those dates. So there doesnt appear to have been a lot of progress on the transfer between 
Prudential receiving the CETV on 11 February 2020, and its meeting with Mr F on 3 March 
2020. 
A CETV is time sensitive. Its value is guaranteed for a set period, and a new CETV can be  
higher or lower in value. As Ive said, Prudential was obliged to progress the transfer process 
in a timely manner, but particularly when it had received that CETV and effectively the clock 
was ticking. So on the one hand, I do think the evidence suggests there was a lack of 
progress for that period from receipt of the CETV until the meeting on 3 March 2020.
However on the other, I dont think the delay was material, in as far as it changes the 
outcome of Mr Fs complaint. I accept that, ultimately, Prudentials advice, which was a 
hybrid option of partial drawdown and an annuity may not have been what was initially 
discussed with Mr F. Mr F has said with only a few days to spare he was put under pressure 
to agree to Prudentials advice which was totally different to the original discussions hed had 
with it. And I understand Mr Fs position on this. 
However Prudential had an obligation to consider all of Mr Fs circumstances and the 
information that had been supplied by the OPS before it was able to make a formal 
recommendation. Prudential was acting as the expert in the matter, and it had a regulatory 
responsibility to provide advice that it considered was suitable for Mr Fs circumstances. 
Although the actual advice may have been different to what was initially discussed, 
Prudential was entitled to provide the advice that it did. It was then up to Mr F to decide 
whether he wanted to follow that advice  he wasnt bound by it. 
I think if Prudential had acted in a timelier manner on receiving the CETV and arranged a 
meeting with Mr F say within a week (rather than three), Mr F may have received 
Prudentials advice approximately two weeks earlier than he did. If that had been the case, I 
accept that Mr F may not have felt the same time pressures as when the advice was 
provided only a few days before the CETV deadline. But I think whats key is that its clear 
that Mr F wasnt happy with the recommendations that Prudential had made. Mr F has said 
that he told Prudential he didnt want to proceed with it. And After consulting and taking 
advice from various bodies I then re-contacted [another financial advising firm] to ask if they 
could take up my original planned action. They said they would be able to, but I would have 
to get another valuation, and as this was within a year I had to pay an upfront fee of £200.
This is consistent with Prudentials file notes from 27 April 2020 which said that Mr F was 
disappointed with its decision (about the transfer), and he was concerned that as his CETV 
was expiring he would need to pay £200 for a new one which could be a lower value.So I think Mr F was aware that hed have to pay for another CETV if he still wanted to 
explore the possibility of a transfer into drawdown (albeit with another firm). And this was 
after he knew what Prudentials advice was about the transfer and that it wasnt what he 
wanted. Even if Mr F had received Prudentials advice two weeks earlier, I dont think he 
would have done anything differently. I think he would still have wanted to try the other firm. 
It was highly unlikely that the other firm could have arranged a transfer prior to the CETV 
deadline expiring. I accept that the new firm might have been able to analyse a transfer on 
the existing CETV to see if it was generally viable. But it could have done that in any event  
the problem being that, as Mr F is aware, CETVs can go up or down. As Mr F was clearly 
keen to continue to explore a transfer to full drawdown a new CETV would have been 
required to assess that option in detail. 
As I have said above, the time taken to arrange a transfer will depend on the particular 
circumstances. And taking all the above into account, I dont think the delay I identified was 
the cause of Mr F having to pay for an updated CETV. I think its more likely than not that he 
would have needed an updated CETV in the particular circumstances in any event, even if 
Prudential had provided its recommendation approximately two weeks earlier.
My final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman