DRN-4231541
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund money they lost to 
an investment scam. 
Mr and Mrs B are being represented by solicitors in their complaint. 
The transactions in dispute were made by Mr B. For ease, Ive referred solely to him 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have also been previously 
set out by the investigator in their view. So, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
The complaint concerns eight payments totalling just under £47,000 to a cryptocurrency 
exchange, which were made using Mr Bs HSBC debit card between May and July 2022. 
These were made in connection to an investment opportunity offered by a firm F, which 
Mr B says turned out to be a scam. He reported the matter to HSBC soon after the last 
disputed payment was made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, 
banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The 
starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even 
where they are duped into making that payment. Theres no dispute that Mr B made 
the payments using his security credentials, and so they are authorised. But in 
accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank should be on 
the look-out for and protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far 
as is reasonably possible. If it fails to act on information which ought reasonably to 
alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for losses 
incurred by its customer as a result.
HSBC has said that it blocked the initial transaction of £1,999.29 and sent Mr B a text 
message to check that it was him making the payment. It says Mr B confirmed that 
the payment was genuine. Given the transaction amount in question and bearing in 
mind that the account statements show a history of transactions to the merchant 
involved (the cryptocurrency exchange), Im satisfied that the intervention carried out 
by HSBC was proportionate to the risk involved. I note that Mr Bs representative 
doesnt appear to dispute this either.
The next transaction, which debited the account ten days later, was for £8,097.92. 
The investigator thought that the transaction ought to have flagged as suspicious to 
HSBC given the amount had jumped to nearly four times the previous amount. In my 
view, its arguable whether that transaction ought to have flagged as unusual. I say 
this because just 13 months prior, Mr B had used the same debit card to make a 
payment to that same merchant for an amount of £11,146.28. Given the previous 
history of sending an even larger amount to that merchant, and a recent confirmation 
from Mr B that he was indeed making transactions to the merchant again, Im not 
entirely convinced that HSBC ought to have intervened at the time of the second 
transaction in dispute.
Even if I were to make a finding that HSBC should have made enquiries before 
releasing the payment, Im not persuaded that it would have affected Mr Bs decision-
making. Ive reviewed the messages he exchanged with the scammer and its evident 
that the interaction started at least a month before Mr B made the first payment. The 
messages show that he had built a good relationship with the scammer and, as noted 
by Mr Bs representative, trust had been gained. Had HSBC questioned Mr B, I think 
its more likely than not he would have explained that he was sending money to his 
own crypto wallet with the cryptocurrency exchange. And that hed done that before 
several times. When asked about his plans for the cryptocurrency hed purchased, 
Ive no reason to believe that Mr B wouldnt have been honest with the bank. I think 
its likely he would have explained how he found F and that he had researched it prior 
to investing. 
Had HSBC told him that scammers tend to use social media to promote investment 
opportunities, Im not persuaded that Mr B would have stopped in his tracks. I say 
this because hes told us he reviewed Fs website in addition to its social media 
pages, and it looked genuine and professional. Weve also been told that Mr B 
followed the social media content of the individual his dealings were with, and I 
understand their channel had over 200,000 subscribers which instilled further 
confidence in Mr B. Considering how taken in he was by the scammer, who was in 
regular contact with him and would have been able to provide reassurances, Im not 
convinced that further questioning by HSBC would have led to Mr B acting differently. 
Even if Mr B had gone away to do further research, there were no regulator warnings 
about F or the individual he was dealing with. And, having carried out a backdated 
search on the internet, I havent been able to find any adverse information about 
them either. 
Thinking next about the subsequent transactions which went to the same merchant, I 
dont consider they would have appeared suspicious given the pattern that had been 
established by that point. So, I dont think HSBC ought to have challenged the 
subsequent transactions either.
Ive also thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover the funds 
after it became aware of the situation, as in some circumstances the money can be 
recovered. Mr Bs payments went to a cryptocurrency exchange. He wouldnt be able 
to make a successful chargeback claim in the circumstances because the merchant 
he paid did provide the service requested (i.e., conversion of fiat money into 
cryptocurrency). So, I dont think HSBC was under any obligation to raise a 
chargeback dispute for Mr B. That said, I understand that the bank asked him to 
provide supporting evidence before considering his claim, but it wasnt forthcoming. 
Mr B subsequently withdrew his claim to pursue it through his representative. In summary, I know that Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome. Not least because the 
matter has been ongoing for some time. I fully acknowledge that theres a lot of money 
involved here. Despite my natural sympathy for the situation in which he finds himself, for the 
reasons given, it wouldnt be fair of me to hold HSBC responsible for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman