DRN-1520887
 
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs R complain Newcastle Building Society mis-sold them a premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
 What happened
 This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 1997 with a mortgage. 
The policy was discussed in a meeting and Mr and Mrs R completed a mortgage application 
form, which included questions about PPI. They also completed a PPI application form. The 
PPI was in joint names, cost just under £23 a month and could have paid out just under 
£400 a month for up to 12 months.  
In 2001 Mr and Mrs R borrowed some more money. At that point they changed their PPI 
policy so that it covered Mr R only. 
In 2007 Mr and Mrs R again borrowed some more money  but they didnt buy any more PPI 
at that point.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all of the available evidence and arguments from the outset, in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Our approach to PPI complaints is 
set out on our website and Ive taken this into account when deciding this complaint. 
From the evidence I have seen I dont think that Newcastle Building Society recommended 
the policy to Mr and Mrs R, so the key question I need to consider is:
Did Newcastle Building Society give Mr and Mrs R information that was clear, fair 
and not misleading in order to put them in a position where they could make an 
informed choice about the insurance they were buying?
If the answer to this question is no, then I need to consider whether Mr and Mrs R are worse 
off as a result. That is, would Mr and Mrs R be in a less favourable position than the one 
they find themselves in now, had there been no problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ive set out my reasons below. Ive 
explained these in more detail than our adjudicator did, but my decision isnt different from 
hers.
Mr and Mrs R say they were told they were less likely to get the mortgage they wanted in 
1997 if they didnt take the PPI. They say they agreed to it reluctantly, even though they already had good work benefits. This sale took place a long time ago  more than 20 years 
ago  and, understandably, its difficult to be sure recollections from so long ago are 
accurate. 
Newcastle Building Society has been able to send us a copy of the mortgage application 
form from 1997. And it has also sent us details of a discount to the interest rate that was on 
offer with the mortgage Mr and Mrs R applied for at the time. This was that, if Mr and Mrs R 
took one of building, contents or payment protection insurance though the society, then 
theyd get a long term discount on the interest rate. The alternative was to pay a higher 
interest rate if they didnt want to buy any insurance. On the application form I can see that 
Mr and Mrs R said no to building or contents insurance and yes to PPI. So it seems to me 
they were making a choice about which  if any  insurance they wanted.
I think the offer of two different interest rates dependent upon whether or not insurance 
(which didnt have to be PPI) was taken made it clear Mr and Mrs R they didnt have to take 
out PPI, despite their recollections from the time. 
Ive also looked at the paperwork from 2001. Again Mr and Mrs R completed the part of the 
application form about PPI. And they also decided to change the cover at this point  so it 
covered Mr R only. They completed a separate form to do this. That form had options for 
them to add or remove parts of the PPI  or all of it  as they wished. I think the paperwork 
made it clear they didnt have to have PPI in order to get the additional money.
Mr and Mrs R rightly pointed out that they borrowed more money in 2007. But there was no 
PPI bought (or amended) at this point, so this doesnt affect my decision and Ive not 
considered this further.
Overall, I think Newcastle Building Society made Mr and Mrs R aware that the PPI was 
optional and that they chose to take it  
I cant say exactly when Mr and Mrs R knew the cost of the policy  it might have been in the 
meetings they had. But the cost was included on their mortgage offer, so they knew the cost 
before they completed the mortgage. The policy was competitively priced and apparently 
affordable. 
Mr and Mrs R both satisfied the eligibility requirements of the policy when taking it out, and 
Mr R remained eligible for the policy when it was changed in 2001.
Furthermore, Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances do not suggest they would have been caught by 
any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits (such as those affecting self-
employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions). 
In summary, I think Mr and Mrs R agreed to take out the cover knowing that if they didnt 
want it they could have paid a higher interest rate instead. And given it provided broadly 
what I think they expected when they agreed to it, I didnt think they would have made a 
different decision (and decided against taking it out) if they had been better informed.
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman