DRN-2705530
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy because HSBC UK Bank Plc did not reimburse money he transferred to a 
fraudster.
What happened
On 8 August 2019, Mr S received a phone call from a fraudster pretending to be from the 
Home Office. The caller reassured Mr S they were genuine by showing him that the number 
they were calling from matched the actual Home Office telephone number. Mr S says the 
caller was able to quote his address in both the UK and India, his passport number and date 
of birth. 
The caller claimed that when Mr S arrived in the UK with his wife earlier that year theyd 
failed to properly complete some immigration paperwork. This omission, according to the 
caller, meant they, and Mr S family in India, were under surveillance and suspected of 
criminal wrongdoing. The caller demanded Mr S co-operate and threatened both him and his 
family with being detained. 
Mr S was instructed not to tell anyone about the call or use the phone or internet. In order to 
avoid arrest, Mr S was initially asked to make two payments to apply for bail for him and his 
wife. Those payments were for £1,075 and £1,857, which Mr S paid through online banking. 
He was then told a further payment needed to be made to pay for a temporary visa. Mr S 
agreed to do this and made a third payment, this time of £1,500 to an account at a different 
bank. He was told that the payments were going to different departments and therefore 
needed to be sent to different accounts. 
The fraudsters also instructed Mr S to make several payments directly to India to pay for 
legal advocacy for his family. These payments, I understand, were made using a money 
remittance firm and do not form part of this complaint. 
Mr S says that the fraudsters, during several different calls that day, became increasingly 
aggressive  at one point causing him to ask to speak to the callers manager  and it was 
this behaviour, as well as being asked for his credit card details, which led Mr S to realise 
that he had fallen victim to a scam. He contacted HSBC the same day to report what had 
happened. 
In total Mr S made three faster payments totalling £4,432 from his HSBC account to a 
fraudster. HSBC were only able to recover £11.40, which was returned to Mr S.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC, although admitting they 
didnt provide Mr S with effective warnings, argue that two such exceptions apply  
- Mr S made the payments without a reasonable basis of belief that the person they 
were paying was the person they were expecting to pay and was legitimate.
- Mr S was grossly negligent. 
As a result, HSBC refunded 50% of Mr S loss. Mr S wasnt happy with this resolution. He 
said HSBC ought to have done more to warn him about this type of scam. So, he referred 
the matter to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They were satisfied Mr S had acted with 
a reasonable basis of belief and recommended HSBC refund the outstanding amount. They 
pointed to the fact the fraudsters had spoofed a genuine Home Office number and seemed 
to know a lot of personal information about Mr S. And, given Mr S personal circumstances 
they thought the threats made against him seemed particularly believable and concerning.
HSBC disagreed Mr S had a reasonable basis for belief and, in the alternative, thought he 
was grossly negligent. In summary, it said:
- The scam is well known and, contrary to the investigators assertion, not particularly 
sophisticated.
- Mr S characteristics had not been taken into account, specifically that he was not 
unsophisticated or vulnerable.
- The information known to the caller was generic and not specific to Mr S 
circumstances.
- Mr S had time to reflect on his actions and should have used this opportunity to carry 
out some basic checks on the legitimacy of the caller.
- The threats made werent credible and Mr S ought to have known the caller wasnt 
genuine.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded the money Mr S 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
- The money was taken from Mr S current account. It is not clear how Mr S would 
have used the money if HSBC had refunded it when it should have done, so HSBC 
should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year. 
Under the Code a firm must decide whether to reimburse no later than 15 Business 
days after the day on which the scam was reported. A Business day, as defined in 
the Code, is any day on which the relevant Firm is open for business as required for 
the execution of a payment. HSBC are open every day so, in this case, that 
timeframe is 15 calendar days. And if the decision is made to reimburse that should 
take place without delay. So, its fair that the interest should be paid from the 15th 
calendar day  23 August 2019 to the date of payment.
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations about whether Mr S had a reasonable 
basis for belief and was grossly negligent. But they do not persuade me to reach a different 
view.  In particular I am not persuaded that Mr S failed to take the requisite level of care 
required for HSBC to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code. 
Its relevant that Mr S had only moved to the U.K. a little over a year before the scam took 
place. His immigration status would mean that he would have had some dealings with the Home Office in the past. So, while the call was clearly unexpected, it was not fanciful that he 
should receive it.
Its also important that, according to Mr S, the caller knew his addresses in both the U.K. and 
India, his passport number and date of birth. This is a significant amount of confidential 
information which reasonably a person would not expect a cold caller to know.
While HSBC have said that the information known to the caller was generic, its not clear 
where this assertion comes from and, when challenged by our investigator on this point, they 
havent provided any further evidence to support this claim. So, while I cant know for sure 
what was said, I have no reason to doubt Mr S. The call Mr S received appears to be 
targeted, rather than random  with the fraudster having some knowledge of Mr S 
immigration status. I think this makes it more likely the fraudster did have personal 
information about Mr S. So, overall, I find his account of events about this persuasive. And, 
with so much information known by the caller, I can understand why he had every reason to 
believe he was speaking to the actual Home Office.
Despite the apparent authenticity of the caller, Mr S still took steps to verify their identity.  
The scam used a technique which is likely to be unknown to most people, and clearly was to 
Mr S  that of number spoofing. Without knowledge that numbers can be manipulated in this 
way, Mr S would have further reason to think the call was genuine.
I agree with HSBC that Mr S personal characteristics are relevant. However, I think those 
characteristics made him more, rather than less, likely to fall victim to the scam. Its true that 
Mr S wasnt vulnerable and neither do I think that, as HSBC suggest, his age or profession 
would necessarily provide him any immunity from this type of scam. Of more relevance, I 
think, is that hed been in the country just a little over a year when the scam happened and 
likely lacked familiarity with how the Home Office, or even scams of this nature, worked. So, 
I dont think its fair to suggest Mr S ought to have known the Home Office wouldnt make 
threats like this or that he ought to have been aware of this type of scam.
While there were elements of what was said that might, in hindsight, have seemed 
implausible, its important to keep in mind the highly pressured nature of the situation. The 
fraudster set out to instil fear in Mr S and cause him to panic. They threatened not just him 
with arrest but also his wife, and family in India. The seriousness of the threats being made 
is likely to have had a significant impact on his decision making  even across the three or 
so hours that it took for all three payments to be made. And, while there were steps Mr S 
could have taken to verify the authenticity of the caller, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
him not to have done this considering the highly pressured environment created by the 
fraudster. 
Of course, Mr S would have known that he wasnt guilty of the allegations being made 
against him, but neither was he accepting liability by paying. The first payments he made 
were simply to avoid his, and his familys, arrest. I can see why Mr S might have thought it 
better to make the payments then and there and resolve the situation later. 
Ultimately Mr S did find the caller to be suspicious, but that happened only after the 
demands the fraudster made appeared to be unending and they became increasingly 
aggressive. I can understand why, by this point, his belief in what he was told began to wane 
but, for the reasons Ive set out, that doesnt mean his earlier belief that the call was genuine 
was unreasonable. 
In summary, Im satisfied HSBC havent shown Mr S lacked a reasonable basis for belief in 
making the transactions. And, neither am I persuaded that Mr S acted with gross negligence, a finding of which requires a significant degree of carelessness, for essentially the same 
reasons. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
To put things right HSBC should pay Mr S:
- The remaining 50% of the money lost  £2,216, deducting any amount HSBC were 
able to recover and return to Mr S. 
- 8% simple interest per annum on that amount, calculated from 23 August 2019 to the 
date of settlement  less any tax lawfully deductible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman