DRN-4177002
The complaint
Mr S complains about advice he received in relation to his pension in 2000 and 2003. Mr S 
has complained to Capital Professional Limited, trading as Ascot Lloyd, (CPL) about that 
advice and subsequently asked our service to consider the same complaint.
I understand the advice that is the subject of this complaint was given by a business, which 
Ill refer to as Firm B. Aspects of Firm Bs business were then taken over by another 
business, which Ill call Firm I. CPL later acquired the business and assets of Firm I. And 
CPL has provided an answer to Mr S and our service about this complaint. So, for ease of 
reading this decision, Ill largely refer to CPL throughout.
Mr S is being represented by a professional third party. Again, for ease of reading this 
decision, Ill largely just refer to Mr S throughout.
What happened
Mr S held benefits in an occupational pension scheme (OPS) from a period of previous 
employment. The benefits seem to have been accrued from July 1986 to October 1993.
His representative has referred to this as a defined benefit (DB) scheme. DB schemes tend 
to provide a guaranteed escalating pension income from a set retirement date, for the rest of 
the pension holders life, as well as often including other benefits, such as a guaranteed 
spouses pension on the death of the scheme member.
A scheme benefit summary that has been provided to our service however refers to this 
OPS as a money purchase scheme. These are otherwise known as defined contribution 
(DC) schemes. This is different to a DB scheme and does not provide a guaranteed 
pension income amount. Funds within a DC scheme are invested, so fluctuate in value. And 
on retirement the fund can be used to purchase pension benefits  the amount of which is 
not guaranteed and is dependent on the value of the fund at that time.
In March 2000, Mr S transferred the benefits from his OPS to an income drawdown personal 
pension. The pension providers records indicate that Firm B was the independent financial 
adviser at the time of the transfer. Illustrations from the time show that these were prepared 
by the pension provider for Firm B, to in turn give to Mr S. And these illustrations say that 
Firm B was to receive commission. Ive also seen evidence that the relevant documents that 
needed to be completed by the OPS scheme were sent to Firm B, as part of the application 
process. 
The pension illustration, issued by the proposed new pension provider at the point of the 
advice, noted that Mr S was 51 and married. Mr S has said, in addition to this, he had five 
dependent children. He was a homeowner and had an outstanding mortgage. He said he 
doesnt recall having any other outstanding debts or liabilities, but he also doesnt think he 
had any substantial savings. Mr S has said he had no prior investment experience and had 
no set objective for transferring his benefits and only did so because CPL advised him to.
The illustration from the pension provider said the transfer value was £150,687.69. It said, at 
that point, the fund value would enable Mr S to purchase an annuity paying a starting 
pension of £4,427.20, escalating by 3% per year and providing a 50% spouses pension on 
Mr S death.
Alternatively, Mr S could take a tax-free sum of £27,611.56 and move to a draw down 
pension plan. He could then take an income between 35% and 100% of the rates produced 
by the Government Actuarys Department (GAD). 
The information from the time indicates Mr S took the maximum possible tax-free cash at the 
time of the transfer. Initially it appears to have been agreed that income would be at the 
minimum level under the GAD rates. But shortly after the transfer Mr S elected to increase 
this and take the maximum annual income of £8,246.10 each year. He drew this maximum 
income each year for the three years following the transfer.
In April 2003, Mr S used the remaining funds within the pension, £74,240.97, to purchase an 
annuity with the same pension provider he held his personal pension with. This annuity was 
on a single life basis  so it wouldn't provide a spouses pension on his death  and provided 
a level pension of £4,152.29 per year. Ive seen evidence that Firm B wrote to the pension 
provider on Mr S behalf, confirming he wanted to purchase the annuity. The annuity key 
features document from the time also indicated that Firm B would be paid commission for 
advice received in relation to the annuity purchase. And the pension provider wrote to 
Firm B, confirming that the purchase had gone ahead. 
Mr S complained to CPL, via his representative in 2022. His representative said that he had 
been given unsuitable advice to transfer the benefits from his DB pension scheme and to 
give up the associated guaranteed pension. They said the level of risk involved was too high, 
he was not fully aware of the implications and if he had been, he wouldnt have gone ahead 
with the transfer. It also said the advice to take an annuity in 2003 was unsuitable as Mr S 
was a significant time from his expected retirement date and doing so had resulted in him 
achieving a lower income than he might otherwise have done.
CPL explained that the circumstances in which it had acquired Firm I meant that it had no 
evidence available from the time of the sale, such as a fact-find recording information about 
Mr S circumstances or objectives or a reason why letter setting out a transfer mightve been 
recommended. So, it said it could not establish whether or not Mr S had been advised by 
Firm B. And it said, as the complaint was made more than six years after the event 
complained about, it was likely made too late for our service to consider, as it could be more 
than three years from when Mr S ought to have known he had reason to complain. So, CPL 
said, for these reasons, it didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. CPL gave further details of the acquisition of 
Firm B by Firm I and in turn CPL. And it explained again that, largely because of this, it had 
very limited records from the point of sale.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She thought it was one we could consider, 
as she hadnt seen any evidence that suggested Mr S shouldve known he had cause to 
complain sooner than he did. Turning to the merits of the complaint, the investigator set out 
to both parties that this was not a transfer of DB scheme benefits but appeared to involve 
moving a DC scheme pension. Nevertheless, she thought the complaint should be upheld. 
CPL did not accept the Investigators opinion. It again said it could find no evidence Firm B 
had given advice. And it said, given the lack of evidence, it didnt think it was reasonable to 
conclude that it had done anything wrong, with reference to the requirements around 
transfers from a DB pension. And it suggested the complaint was purely speculative, given 
how long the annuity had been in payment.The Investigator highlighted again that this was not a transfer from a DB scheme. CPL 
apologised for this error in its response but said that its position still stood  there was no 
evidence that Firm B had been paid on an advisory basis and in any event, due to the lack of 
evidence, it couldnt be fairly concluded that there had been an error. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision in July 2023. I was satisfied on balance that Firm B had 
advised Mr S, not least as the information suggested on balance it was to receive 
commission. And while CPL had given a lot of context about why it was answering the 
complaint, it did seem to have been accepted that it should do so. I also felt the complaint 
had been made in time for us to consider. I noted CPL had made no comment on when it 
thought Mr S shouldve been aware of having reason to complain. And I said I didnt think I 
could reasonably conclude, based on the information available, that Mr S ought to have 
been aware he had cause to complain about the advice he received more than three years 
before he did so.
I went on to explain that I didnt intend to uphold Mr S complaint. Below are extracts from my 
provisional findings, explaining why.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And again, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach 
my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The advice in 2000 
As Ive summarised, it appears that in 2000 Mr S was advised to transfer his pension 
benefits from a DC occupational pension scheme to a personal pension with a different 
provider. He immediately began drawing pension benefits after the transfer, taking tax free 
cash and an annual income.
I think its first worth noting that, contrary to the complaint made by Mr S representative, the 
existing pension that Mr S held does not appear to have been a DB scheme. So, the majority 
of the arguments it has put forward as to why the advice was unsuitable  that the transfer 
resulted in Mr S giving up guarantees, he didnt fully understand the risks of this and he 
didnt want to take additional risk with his pension - arent relevant to what actually 
happened. The summary information available in respect of the OPS indicates there were no 
guaranteed benefits attached to that policy. It also indicates that the pension fund was 
already invested, with two separate providers, and subject to market risk. And it hasnt 
provided any further commentary on why a change of DC scheme wasnt appropriate. 
Nevertheless, Ive thought about whether the transfer seems to have been in Mr S interests 
based on the limited information available.
Mr S was 51 at the time of the advice. So, based on the regulations at the time, was entitled 
to begin accessing his pension benefits. Mr S has said he had no particular objectives for 
transferring his pension. But he began drawing benefits, including taking tax-free cash, 
immediately after the transfer took place. And while Mr S has said he was employed at the 
time of the advice in 2000, hes also said he had five dependent children and a mortgage 
with an outstanding balance he estimated to be in the region of £250,000. So, I think its 
reasonable to assume, based on what hes said about his circumstances and what he 
subsequently did, that one of his objectives may have been to start drawing benefits to 
supplement his income at the time, as hed reached an age at which he could do so.The information from the point of sale is limited. And this is particularly the case in respect of 
the OPS. What is available though is a transfer value summary. This document indicates 
that the normal retirement age of Mr S pension was 65. But it also says early retirement 
from age 50 was possible, subject to the employers agreement. However, the information 
suggests that the only option under the OPS was to use the fund value to immediately 
purchase an annuity, based on the prevailing rates. Flexible drawdown does not appear to 
have been possible. 
There isnt any information in that document about what level of annuity could be purchased. 
But an illustration from the time from the provider that Mr S transferred his pension to said 
that the transfer value could purchase an annuity with an annual income of £4,427.20, 
increasing by 3% per year, with a 50% spouses pension. I think this is likely a reasonable 
approximation of the pension that Mr S could therefore have taken at the time from the OPS.
The OPS summary information also confirmed that Mr S could take tax-free cash from it, 
prior to purchasing an annuity. But it noted that the maximum tax-free cash that could be 
taken under the OPS was £15,598.85.
The drawdown arrangement that Mr S transferred to allowed him to take tax-free cash in 
excess of £27,600. And it allowed him to take a pension income between a minimum and 
maximum level, set by GAD. And at the time, the maximum was in excess of the level of 
annuity that could be purchased. From the limited information available it appears that the 
advice was to take income at the minimum level. But, shortly after the transfer, Mr S elected 
to make a change and take income at the maximum level  indicating a preference on his 
part to maximise his benefits.
So, if Mr S was looking to begin drawing benefits from his pension and maximise these  
which on balance I think appears likely  the benefits he couldve drawn after a transfer 
appear to have been greater than he couldve instead taken under the OPS.
It is true that using the drawdown arrangement would result in the fund value depleting, 
leaving Mr S with less money to purchase an annuity at a later date  which again at the 
time was a requirement. But at the same time the drawdown balance would benefit from 
market growth. And, as Mr S has said he was still working, its reasonable to conclude that 
he couldve continued to contribute to alternative pension arrangements, in the meantime. 
Meaning, by the time he came to purchase an annuity, he wouldnt have only had the 
residual balance of the drawdown pension to utilise. While he would also have benefitted 
from the extra income the pension provided in the meantime.
The makeup of the investments through the OPS is unclear. The drawdown pension appears 
to have been invested across three funds equally. One of these was described as providing 
capital security and one low risk, meaning two thirds of the pension was invested on at worst 
a low-risk basis. Mr S representatives have said he wasnt looking to take risk  although 
when it said this it was in reference to not giving up guarantees which the OPS didnt 
actually provide. Given Mr S age and what hes said about this pension being his main 
retirement provision, I think its reasonable to conclude he wouldnt have been looking to 
take significant risk with his pension. But the recommended investment seems to have been 
in line with that. And I cant see that the risk was greater than that of the OPS, as Mr S and 
his representatives have been unable to provide further information in order to compare this.
It isnt clear what level of charges were applicable to the OPS. The illustration from the point 
of sale indicates that the charges on the drawdown policy would have the effect of reducing 
any growth achieved by around 2%. So, its possible that the charges for the personal 
pension exceeded those of the OPS. But again, the benefits immediately available under this 
pension seem to have been greater and offered Mr S more flexibility in how he took those benefits. 
A significant amount of time has passed since this sale, meaning any recollections Mr S 
mightve had may be unreliable  as I think the basis of his initial complaint being largely not 
applicable to the actual circumstances suggests. And there is very limited information still 
available. But Mr S was at a point where he could start drawing retirement benefits. While 
information about his financial circumstances are extremely limited, based on what he has 
told us, I think it was reasonable to assume that he wanted to access his benefits. And the 
transfer appears to have given him the option, which he incidentally elected to take, to 
access greater benefits than it appears likely the OPS wouldve allowed. So, based on the 
limited information that is available I dont think I can reasonably say that the advice to 
transfer was necessarily unsuitable.
The advice in 2003
In 2003, Mr S used the funds remaining in his personal pension to purchase an annuity  to 
provide a guaranteed income for the rest of his life. Mr S was 54 at the time. Mr S 
representative says Firm B advised him to do this and this wasnt in his interests as, if hed 
waited, hed have potentially been able to purchase an annuity paying a higher income later.  
The evidence from 2003 is again very limited. Mr S has though mentioned that he had 
recently been made redundant and said he recalls this being part of the reason for the 
recommendation he received.
For the three years since Mr S initially transferred to a personal pension, hed been drawing 
the maximum income allowable from the policy, based on the GAD tables. This was in 
addition to having taken tax-free cash following the transfer. GAD rates are regularly 
amended. And in 2003, changes to these and the updated balance of his pension taking into 
account previous withdrawals, meant the maximum Mr S could draw from his personal 
pension each year from that point reduced to £4,046.69 per year. So, the amount he was 
going to be able to take as an income had decreased significantly. Again, we dont know a 
great deal about Mr S circumstances but I dont think its unreasonable to say that Mr S 
might have come to rely in part on the income his pension was providing. 
Alternatively, Mr S could purchase an annuity from that point paying a guaranteed amount 
for the rest of his life. And the income from the annuity purchased at that time was higher 
than he could take under flexible drawdown. The documents from the time also indicate that, 
if Mr S waited until he was older, his pension would still need to achieve growth in excess of 
7.5% per year to purchase an equivalent annuity from age 65 onwards. Achieving that 
growth was not guaranteed and so it is not certain that, if he had waited, he wouldve been 
able to purchase an annuity paying him more.
Purchasing an annuity meant that Mr S income from the pension would be guaranteed from 
that point onwards  above what he could draw on a flexible drawdown basis at that stage. 
So provided him with certainty, which given he says hed recently been made redundant, 
mightve been useful. And Id note that part of the reason, albeit erroneously, his 
representatives have said giving up the OPS was unsuitable was that Mr S wouldve been 
giving up guarantees. So, saying that guaranteeing his income was also wrong, seems at 
odds with its other arguments.
The annuity option taken appears to have been on a single life basis  not providing a 
spouses pension  even though I understand Mr S was married. And the income was level 
rather than escalating. Again, there is no information from the time about why this option was 
ultimately taken. But the initial pension provided by an annuity which provides a spouses 
pension or income escalation is normally significantly lower. So, it appears likely this was done to maximise the income the policy provided at what was an uncertain time, given Mr S 
redundancy.
I appreciate with the benefit of hindsight, Mr S, and his representatives, feel he mightve 
been better off had he taken a different course of action. But at the moment, based on the 
information that is available, I dont think taking an annuity in 2003 was inappropriate, based 
on his circumstances.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think, based on the information and evidence available 
in this specific case, that I can reasonably say the advice Mr S received in relation to his 
pension was unsuitable or wasnt in line with his needs at the time.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached my final decision.
CPL didnt provide any further comments in relation to the merits of the complaint and said it 
agreed in principle with my findings. It did though provide further information and clarification 
relating to the acquisition of Firm B by Firm I and subsequently CPLs acquisition of Firm I. 
Mr S representative said he did not accept my provisional decision. They said the initial 
complaint made was based on an incorrect understanding that Mr S originally held a DB 
scheme. But even though it was in fact a DC scheme, they still felt the advice to transfer 
wasnt suitable. They said they didnt think Mr S needed to transfer or incur different product 
charges as he was employed and had skills that would be in demand. And they still didnt 
think the recommendation of an annuity was suitable because, even though Mr S had been 
made redundant, his skills wouldve still been in demand and the income the annuity 
provided was modest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the information that CPL has provided about how it has come to respond here 
and thank it for this clarification. I note though that CPL has also said it is satisfied, in the 
specific circumstances, the complaint has been set up correctly. And that it is the correct 
respondent. As a result, and as it hasnt provided any further comment to suggest it still 
believes we should not consider the complaint for any other reason, I dont see any reason 
to depart from my provisional finding that we can consider this complaint.
Having considered everything again and the comments made by the parties, while I know 
this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, Im not inclined to depart from my provisional 
findings that the complaint should not be upheld. 
The information from the point of sale here is limited. While Mr S doesnt recall having any 
motivation for transferring his pension, as Ive explained, a significant amount of time has 
passed since the advice. I wouldnt expect Mr S to recall the advice in significant detail. And, 
for the reasons Ive already explained, any recollections he might have are, in my view, likely 
to potentially be unreliable.
So, Ive had to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
While Mr S representative doesnt think he needed to access his pension benefits, he was 
at an age at which he could do so if he so chose. He wasnt giving up any guarantees by 
doing so. The pension was already subject to risk. The recommended funds appear to have 
been intended to limit the risk of the new pension. And I havent seen anything to suggest 
the risk was increased. The transfer also appears to have provided Mr S access to higher 
levels of tax-free cash and income than he couldve obtained at that time by taking his OPS 
benefits. And while his representative does not agree, I think this mightve been useful to 
him. While the charging structure was different, I havent been provided evidence of the 
charges which applied to the existing scheme. And, while it might be likely the charging 
structure under the new pension was higher, I dont think this means that the transfer was 
unsuitable  particularly as it appears to have allowed Mr S access to greater levels of 
retirement benefits initially, which he utilised.
Turning to the annuity, again Mr S representatives previously argued that giving up 
guarantees was not in Mr S interests. So, its argument now that securing a guaranteed 
income was also unsuitable, appears contradictory. And as Ive explained, the level of 
income secured through the annuity was greater than Mr S could draw on a flexible basis. 
And the information available suggests that if he had waited until age 65 to purchase an 
annuity, to secure one that provided the same level of income as he was able to take at age 
54 wouldve required him to achieve growth in his pension portfolio of 7.5% per year. Which 
was by no means guaranteed. So, he may not have achieved a better secured income, had 
he waited.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think I can fairly say that the advice Mr S received was 
unsuitable. So, Im not asking CPL to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman