DRN-2861710
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about the refusal by Aviva Insurance Limited of a claim made under the 
legal expenses section of his home insurance policy. Aviva uses agents to deal with claims 
on its behalf. All references to Aviva in this decision should be read as including anything 
done or said on its behalf by those agents. 
What happened
Mr S lost his job following an accident at work and in 2017 Mr S instructed solicitors (Firm 
A) to act for him in relation to an employment tribunal claim against his former employer.   
Mr S was unhappy with the way Firm A handled his case and made a claim under the policy 
with Aviva for cover to take a professional negligence claim against them. 
Mr S initially instructed solicitors (Firm B) and asked that they deal with the claim. Aviva said 
it would need an assessment of the merits of the legal claim before it could confirm cover 
under the policy. It said Firm B could provide that but it would not pay the amount they  
asked for to do the assessment. Mr S therefore agreed to Firm C (a firm on Avivas panel of 
pre-approved solicitors) being appointed by Aviva to assess the claim. 
Firm C said Mr Ss claim only had a 50% chance of succeeding but also said they didnt 
have enough information to determine the value of the claim. Mr S had also provided several 
files to Firm C relating to the case, so they asked for agreement from Aviva to get a written 
advice from a barrister on the prospects of the case. Aviva agreed and a barristers opinion 
was obtained in March 2019. The barrister concluded there was only a 35-40% chance of a 
favourable outcome. The barrister also said the claim would not be proportionate to pursue, 
as the value of the claim would be less than it would cost in legal fees. 
It is a pre-requisite of cover under the policy that any legal case have at least a 51% chance 
of succeeding and also be proportionate, so Aviva refused to cover the claim.  It told Mr S it 
would reconsider if he was able to provide his own legal opinion that said he had a 
reasonable chance of succeeding in his claim. Aviva told him it would reimburse the cost of 
any report, if it was favourable to Mr S but he would have to pay for it initially. 
Mr S is very unhappy with this. Mr S has made a number of submissions in support of his 
complaint, which Ive summarised below: 
He had provided the solicitors with all the information they needed. 
The barristers report is incorrect and being investigated. The barrister did not answer 
his questions. 
He says the way to work out the percentage chance of his case succeeding is by 
averaging out all the percentage figures each solicitor and barrister have given  
including for his initial employment case which was put at 65%. When averaged out it 
gives more than 51% chance of success, so his claim should be covered. 
Aviva paid Firm C £2,640 to carry out the assessment of his case but refused to pay 
Firm B £2,370 for the same assessment. 
He asked Aviva several times for a copy of an email it said it had received on           
13 December 2018 from Firm C stating his claim did not have reasonable prospects. 
First Aviva said it was confidential but he eventually got a copy from Aviva and from 
Firm C. The header on each version is different, with a different format for the time 
and date it was sent. This means the email is fake.
We should use our power to penalize Aviva for providing a false document, which is 
illegal, and compensate him for this.
Aviva called him but even though its telephone number is available they appeared as 
no caller ID on his phone. He asks for an explanation why this happened. 
He went back to Firm B for advice before getting another barristers opinion to 
provide to Aviva. Aviva communicated with Firm B against his wishes and without his 
consent. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He didnt recommend that it be upheld, as he 
considered that Aviva was entitled to rely on the panel solicitors and barristers opinions and 
there was no convincing evidence that their opinions were fundamentally flawed. The 
investigator also said, even if the email was fake (which he didnt think it was), it would not 
mean Mr Ss claim would be paid; and he didnt think Aviva had acted unreasonably 
generally when handling the claim. 
Mr S doesnt accept that investigators assessment. As the investigator was unable to 
resolve the complaint, it has been referred to me. 
Mr S also took proceedings for personal injury resulting from the same incident at work and 
has made another claim to take proceedings against the solicitors involved in that case for 
professional negligence. For the avoidance of doubt, this decision addresses only the claim 
for professional negligence against Firm A in relation to the employment tribunal claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like virtually all other legal expenses policies, Mr Ss policy requires that any claim has a 
reasonable chance of succeeding: 
Our lawyer will assess the evidence and if it is more likely than not that you will: 
a) recover damages or obtain any other legal remedy which we have agreed to, or 
b) be successful in defending a claim against you, or 
c) make a successful appeal or defence of an appeal
then we will fund the case for you. 
If, in the lawyers opinion:
a) your claim is likely to be considered a waste of court time, or 
b) the prospects of success are no longer in your favour, or 
c) your claim has reached a point where incurring further costs and expenses would not be 
reasonable then we will not pay any further costs and expenses towards it. 
We do not regard this as inherently unfair: a legal expenses insurer cannot reasonably be 
expected to fund expensive litigation whose prospects of success are speculative or 
uncertain. We would consider that a reasonable chance of success would mean it is more 
likely than not  i.e. a better than even chance, or 51% or more - chance of succeeding. 
Where an insurer has rejected a claim for lack of prospects, it is not for us to evaluate the 
merits of the proposed action or defence. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has 
considered the claim fairly. So long as it has obtained independent legal advice on prospects from suitably qualified lawyers, we will not generally question its reliance on that advice, 
unless we think it was obviously erroneous or based on factual mistakes. I have seen 
nothing in this case to justify such a finding.
The barrister provided a lengthy and reasoned opinion on Mr Ss case. His conclusion was: 
On the evidence currently before me, the Claimant has poor (c.35-40%) prospects of
successfully claiming professional negligence against the Defendant  
This, taken in conjunction with the modest value of the tribunal claim (c.£15,000) when 
weighed up against the probable costs of a professional negligence claim which would 
almost certainly exceed the value of the original case, mean that this would not be a 
proportionate matter to pursue under the Policy. 
Although a question was mooted in my instructions as to the potential liability of the barrister 
 the documents do not reveal any shortcomings or even allegations of shortcomings as to 
his presentation of the Claimants case, and so I do not consider any discrete liability on his 
part herein 
Therefore, I cannot advise that there are sufficient prospects, nor that it is proportionate, for 
the Policy to fund a fresh case of professional negligence against the Defendant.
There is no evidence that this assessment was fundamentally wrong and that Aviva should 
have identified it as such. I do not therefore consider that Aviva was wrong to rely on it. 
Mr S says he wanted Firm B to assess his claim and act for him and it was unreasonable for 
Aviva to refuse to pay the costs it asked for to assess his claim, when it ended up paying 
more to Firm C. As Mr S did not have a valid claim under the policy at that stage Aviva did 
not have to agree to his choice of solicitor at that point. Aviva did however agree to them 
providing an assessment of the case but they would not agree the terms offered. I do not 
think it was unreasonable for Aviva to offer the terms it did to Firm B. It paid for Firm C and a 
barrister to consider all the evidence provided and provide a comprehensive opinion on       
Mr Ss case.  I think it acted reasonably in doing so. 
Given all of the above, and based on the information available, I dont consider that Aviva 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably in refusing to fund any legal action for Mr S. 
Mr S was also unhappy that Aviva contacted Firm B after his claim was refused. I can see 
that Firm B contacted Aviva by email saying they had been instructed again by Mr S and 
asking about his options under the policy at that stage. Aviva responded to confirm it was not 
covering the claim but if Mr S was able to provide a favourable legal opinion (obtained at this 
own expense) it would reconsider. I do not think it acted unreasonably in responding to    
Firm Bs enquiry and it made no difference to the outcome of Mr Ss claim. Mr S suggests 
this was also a breach of data protection as he compares it to a scenario where he is unable 
to discuss his wifes insurance policy without her consent. It is the Information 
Commissioners Office that deals with alleged data breaches and has the primary 
responsibility to uphold data protection rights. I am not therefore able to take this aspect of 
the complaint any further.   
With regard to the telephone calls made to Mr S with no caller ID, Aviva says this is how its 
calls appear on the recipients phone. Mr S might find this unsatisfactory but I do not think it 
made any difference to his claim and do not think Aviva has done anything wrong here. Mr S is also very concerned that the 13 December 2018 email he has been provided with is 
not genuine. The email consisted of a form about Mr Ss case completed by Firm C and sent 
to Aviva. The copy I have seen says Firm C thought Mr Ss chance of success at that stage 
were 50% and asks Aviva for consent to get a barristers opinion. Aviva says the form is part 
of its assessment process when deciding if claims are covered and was therefore an internal 
document which it was not obliged to release in full. However, it did provide a copy to Mr S. 
Mr S is adamant this email is forged, as the date header is different from another copy of it. 
However, I am not persuaded this means it is fake. Different devices do sometimes format 
documents and emails differently. But, in any event, the content of the email is consistent 
with the events that happened at that time. Aviva did provide consent to get a barristers 
opinion on the case in response to this email. Therefore, even if I were convinced it was fake 
 which I am not  I do not see that it would change anything about the claim or complaint. 
And I do not have the power to penalise or fine Aviva for providing a false document in the 
way Mr S wants. Mr Ss legal case was assessed by Firm C and the barrister as not having 
sufficient prospects of success to be covered by the policy and this would still be the case. 
Finally, Mr S has asked about his legal rights against this service and/or the businesses 
involved with his insurance. While we cannot advise him in this regard, for the avoidance of 
doubt, any legal rights he has (if any) against the businesses he has complained about are 
not affected by this decision, provided he does not accept it. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman