DRN-2672950
The complaint
Mr F complains about The Co-operative Bank Plc (TCB) and their failure to credit his 
account after he paid in a cheque using his local post office.
What happened
In late November 2020, Mr F paid a cheque into the account he held with TCB using his 
local post office branch. 
But by 4 December, his account still hadnt been credited. So, he contacted TCB to query 
how long it should take for the funds to show in his account. TCB explained they would need 
further information from Mr F to try and trace his cheque. This included information Mr F 
didnt have available. In this situation, TCB suggested contacting the business issuing the 
cheque and ask them to provide the information or to re-issue a new one. Mr F was unhappy 
with this response, so he raised a complaint.
Mr F didnt think it was reasonable for TCB to ask him to provide further information or return 
to the cheque issuer and ask for another to be sent. He felt hed sent the cheque to them 
correctly using the postal service so thought TCB had a responsibility to ensure his account 
was credited with the £37.91 value of the cheque. He explained it had taken him months to 
receive the cheque from the cheque issuer and didnt want to go through that process again. 
So, he wanted TCB to credit his account.
TCB didnt agree. They recognised Mr Fs upset but explained theyd been unable to trace 
the cheque with the information they had so far. And they explained they couldnt credit Mr 
Fs account without receiving the cheque first and confirming its value. So, they thought 
theyd acted fairly when asking Mr F to return to the cheque issuer to request a new cheque 
or further information that would help them trace it. And because of this, they didnt offer to 
do anything more. Mr F remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint 
to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He recognised the stress and 
upset Mr F had been caused. But, crucially, he didnt think he was able to say that had 
resulted from an error TCB made. He didnt doubt Mr F had sent the cheque. But he 
explained hed seen no evidence to show it had been received. And he didnt think it was fair 
to hold TCB responsible for any errors that may have been caused by the postal service. He 
thought the options TCB proposed were fair and because of this, he didnt think they needed 
to do anything more.
Mr F didnt agree. He explained hed used the postal service to cash in cheques for years 
without any issues. And he explained he had to use this service as his local TCB branch was 
more than sixty miles away. He remained of the view that hed done all he could to cash the 
cheque and didnt think it was his fault that it hadnt been received by TCB. So, he 
maintained his belief that TCB should credit his account for the value. He also wanted to be 
compensated for the time and effort hed taken when dealing with the complaint. As Mr F 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the upset this complaint has caused Mr F. I recognise Mr F 
encountered difficulties when getting the cheque issued and that it took a significant amount 
of time to do so. So, I can understand why Mr F wanted to ensure the cheque was cashed 
as soon as possible. And when it wasnt, I can understand the frustration he wouldve felt.
I also dont disagree with Mr F that the issue hes faced when cashing his cheque was no 
fault of his own. I appreciate his local branch was a significant distance away, so hes used 
the postal service to save him needing to commute, which he is entitled to do. But, crucially, 
the fact the issue isnt the fault of Mr Fs doesnt then mean the issue is definitively the fault 
of TCBs. For me to say TCB have done something wrong, Id need to see evidence to show 
they received the cheque from Mr F and failed to credit his account as Id expect. Or, that 
TCB have asked Mr F to take actions that are unfair and unreasonable. And in this situation, 
I dont think thats the case.
I dont dispute that Mr F sent the cheque to TCB using his local post office in late November 
2020. Mr F has provided a receipt that shows an item was sent on that day and I think its 
reasonable to assume this was the cheque in question. But Ive seen TCB confirm they were 
unable to trace it using the information Mr F could provide when he asked about its progress 
in early December. So, I think its reasonable to assume the cheque wasnt received by TCB. 
And in this situation, on the balance of probability its most likely the cheque was lost by the 
postal service. And it would be unfair for me to hold TCB responsible for any error made by 
the postal service. 
I understand Mr F has used this service for several years without any issues but that doesnt 
mean that the postal service didnt make an error on this occasion. Without any evidence to 
show otherwise, such as a signature to show the cheque was received if it had been sent by 
recorded delivery, Im unable to say for certain that TCB received the cheque. And I think 
TCB needed to receive the cheque to understand its value and the provider who issued it 
before crediting an account. Without this information, I cant say theyve acted unfairly by not 
crediting Mr Fs account.
Ive then focused on the actions TCB asked Mr F to take to assist them in locating the 
cheque or obtaining another. TCB asked for a cheque number to help them investigate 
whether theyd received the cheque, but Mr F wasnt able to provide this. I can understand 
why Mr F thinks this was unreasonable information to ask for and I agree recording the 
cheque number isnt something most people would think to do. But Ive seen TCBs internal 
process designed to help them locate lost cheques and I can see this is information they 
require. So, I cant say theyve acted unfairly when asking whether Mr F had this information 
to hand as theyve followed their process as Id expect.
As Mr F didnt have this information, TCB explained he could request this from the cheque 
issuer. And if this information wasnt available, he could ask them to cancel the cheque and 
issue a new one. Mr F didnt think TCB were reasonable to suggest this as he didnt want to 
contact the cheque issuer again due to the problems he faced trying to obtain the cheque 
beforehand.I can appreciate why Mr F would be hesitant to contact the cheque issuer again as hes 
explained it took him a long time to receive the first cheque. And I can understand why he 
wouldnt want to open himself up to the same frustrations. But this doesnt mean TCB were 
unreasonable to suggest this option to him. Without any further information to locate the 
cheque Mr F sent, TCB were unable to confirm it had been received. So, I think they had a 
responsibility to outline all the options Mr F had available. 
And in this situation, I think the only viable alternatives Mr F had left was to contact the 
cheque issuer and either request the original cheque number or request a new cheque to be 
sent. I wouldnt expect TCB to do this on Mr Fs behalf as they werent acting as Mr Fs 
representative, so would not have been unable to speak to the cheque issuer on matters 
concerning Mr F directly. So, while I appreciate this wouldve been stressful for Mr F, I dont 
think TCB acted unfairly or unreasonably by suggesting it. I think they were acting in the best 
interests of Mr F to ensure he had the opportunity to present a new cheque that would allow 
them to credit his account. Because of this, I cant say theyve done anything wrong and so, I 
dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr F was hoping for. And I recognise it wont alleviate the 
stress hes been caused or may face again when contacting the cheque issuer. I also want 
to re-iterate to Mr F again that I do recognise he finds himself in this situation through no 
fault of his own. But its my role to decide if hes in this situation due to an error made by 
TCB. And I dont think he is on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about The Co-operative 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman