DRN-3315061
The complaint
Mr W complains about the end of contract charges in relation to a car that was supplied 
through a Personal Contract Purchase (PCP) agreement brokered by Richard Hardie 
Limited (RHL). 
RHL has been represented on this complaint. But to keep things simple Ill only refer to RHL 
in my decision.
What happened
In September 2015 Mr W acquired a new car through a PCP agreement brokered by RHL. 
Mr W paid a deposit of £500 and part exchanged his previous car which had some existing 
finance to settle. The total amount financed on this agreement was £21,358.86, payable over 
48 months.
Mr W explained that towards the end of the agreement he realised that the annual mileage 
allowance was 5,000. Mr W says that at the time of application he disputed that amount and 
specifically requested an allowance in the region of 15,000 miles per year. Mr W says he 
needed enough mileage to cover his commute to work which would be around 7,500 miles 
each year, in addition to other personal journeys.  
Mr W said the annual allowance of 5,000 miles had left him with an end of contract excess 
mileage charge of around £2,100. Mr W says he wouldnt have entered into the agreement 
had he known what the mileage allowance was. Mr W said he wanted RHL to pay the 
excess charges.
In July 2019 Mr W raised his complaint to RHL. He also complained to the finance provider. 
On 8 October 2019 RHL wrote to Mr W to say that the details of the mileage allowance were 
set out on the agreement which they say hed signed. So, they felt he would have been 
aware of what the mileage allowance was. RHL said they couldnt help him with the charge.
In October 2019 Mr W brought his complaint to us. And in December 2019 the finance 
provider sent their final response to Mr Ws complaint. In their response the finance 
company confirmed that Mr W had completed around 55,000 miles by the end of his 
contract, which was about 35,000 miles in excess of the total allowance on his agreement. 
They said they believe the excess mileage charges were applied fairly and in line with their 
terms and conditions, but in the circumstances, they were willing to reduce the amount by 
£1,000 as a gesture of goodwill. This would leave Mr W with a balance of £1,096.82 to pay.
In January 2020 Mr W told our investigator that hed decided to pay the excess mileage 
charge and had accepted the finance providers offer in order to reduce the amount he had 
to pay. Mr W said he did so in the understanding that it wouldnt affect his complaint against 
RHL.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws concerns and recommended that the complaint be 
upheld. The investigator didnt think that Mr W would have knowingly opted for a 5,000 
annual mileage limit as he didnt think it was consistent with his travel needs. So, our 
investigator recommended that RHL reimburse to Mr W the excess charges hed paid and to 
compensate him £150 for the inconvenience caused.
Mr W responded to say that he was happy with the investigators view, however RHL 
disagreed with the view and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Mr W complains about a PCP agreement brokered by RHL. Credit broking is a regulated 
activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Ws complaint.
Ive considered whether RHL did anything wrong when it brokered the credit to Mr W, such 
as giving him incorrect or misleading information. Specifically, Ill consider if he was aware of 
the mileage allowance. 
RHL says that the mileage allowance was set out on the PCP agreement which Mr W had 
signed. So, they felt he should have known what the allowance was when he entered into 
the agreement. However, Mr W says that he wasnt aware of the limit until near the end of 
his agreement and said he told RHL, at the time, that he wanted a higher mileage allowance. 
From the evidence provided Im persuaded that Mr W hadnt reasonably been made aware 
of the mileage allowance. I acknowledge that RHL have pointed out that the mileage 
allowance was recorded on the agreement, however I can see that it was on page three of 
the agreement. Mr W signed page two, before the allowance was listed. Ive considered this 
point because Im not persuaded Mr Ws attention would have necessarily been drawn to it.  
In addition, Mr Ws circumstances appear inconsistent with agreeing to an annual mileage 
allowance of 5,000. For example, in an email to RHL in 2019, Mr W said that his usual 
commute to work was around 7,500 miles per year, which in itself exceeded 5,000. Mr W 
also said in that email that hed estimated an annual usage of 15,000 miles. Mr W provided 
his car insurance policy from 2017 which shows he declared an annual mileage of 15,000 
miles. This is inconsistent with the allowance on the PCP agreement, but supports what Mr 
W has said about what hed initially asked for. 
Over the term of the agreement Mr W travelled around 55,000 miles in his car. This is 
consistent with an allowance of 15,000 each year, which is what Mr W said hed asked for. 
Had RHL applied that limit, Mr W would have had an allowance of 60,000 miles over the 
four-year agreement period and so would have been within the allocated mileage limitations. 
Mr W also said he had previous agreements with a higher mileage allowance and so never 
wouldve agreed to this amount. I can see hes provided a copy of the finance from his 
previous car, which was a fixed sum loan and had no charges for excess mileage. This 
seems to back up his testimony here.So, from the information provided Im not persuaded that Mr W would have knowingly opted 
for a considerably lower mileage allowance than what his lifestyle required. And Im satisfied 
that Mr W wasnt aware of the 5,000 miles limitation on the agreement. 
I recognise that had RHL applied the correct mileage allowance this would have likely 
increased the monthly repayments for Mr W. So, in effect its likely Mr W will have benefitted 
from lower repayments throughout his agreement. Ive thought about this carefully, and 
although I dont know what the monthly repayments would have been had the mileage been 
set at 15,000 each year, Mr W said he wouldnt have accepted a higher monthly repayment 
and so wouldnt have entered into the agreement. 
Overall, I cant be sure what position Mr W would have been in had he not entered into this 
agreement, but in the circumstances, I dont think its reasonable for Mr W to pay the excess 
mileage charge.
Putting things right
Given that Ive found Mr W wasnt aware of the mileage limitations on the agreement, I dont 
think its fair that he should pay for the excess charges. So, I think RHL needs to put things 
right for him. Mr W confirmed to us that he accepted the offer from the finance company of a 
£1,000 reduction. So, Mr W has paid out £1,096.82 for the excess mileage. In the 
circumstances Ill be instructing RHL to reimburse to Mr W £1,096.82.
Mr W has said that this situation has caused him a degree of upset and frustration. I think it 
must have been stressful for Mr W to realise that he had a 5000 miles annual allowance and 
was facing an unexpended bill of over £2,000. In the circumstances, Im in agreement with 
our investigator that £150 is a reasonable amount of compensation to reflect this. So, Ill be 
instructing RHL to pay Mr W £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
In his complaint form Mr W raised concerns about a previous application for finance, with a 
lower interest rate, that he said the dealer told him hed been rejected for. He also raised 
concerns about a signature on the agreement that he hadnt recognised as his own. Ive not 
seen any evidence about a previous application for finance or in relation to what Mr W has 
said about his signature on the agreement. However, as Mr Ws complaint centres around 
the excess mileage charges, which Ive found he should be reimbursed for, I havent 
considered the other points as part of my decision.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above, along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I uphold this complaint and instruct Richard Hardie Limited to:
reimburse Mr W the £1,096.82 for the outstanding excess mileage charge as 
described in my decision 
pay Mr W £150 compensation for the inconvenienced caused
Richard Hardie Limited should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds calculated from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
If Richard Hardie Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriateUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman