DRN-2663894
The complaint
Miss P has complained about the settlement offer U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct 
Line (UKI) made, a delay and the way it communicated with her when she made a claim 
under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss P made a claim under her home insurance policy with UKI following an escape of water 
from an upstairs bathroom in July 2019. There was water damage to the bathroom and the 
kitchen below. Miss P appointed her own loss assessor (LA) which Ill refer to as A. 
UKI instructed their own LA to visit Miss Ps property and provide a scope of works for the 
repairs. Between August 2019 and June 2020 UKI made a series of cash settlement offers 
for the repairs which ranged from £2,737 to £5,830.24, which Miss P rejected. UKI said the 
cash settlement was equivalent to what it would cost if their contractors did the work in line 
with the policy. UKI said the alternative was for Miss P to allow their contractors to complete 
the repairs. 
Miss P obtained her own estimates and due to the significant difference compared to UKIs 
contractor, she said she didnt want UKIs preferred contractors to carry out the repairs. The 
estimates Miss P obtained from A and another contractor were for £23,540 and £25,439 
exclusive of VAT. 
Miss P said she had no confidence in the settlement amount UKI offered as it had changed 
so often and was much lower than the estimates shed obtained for the repair works. She 
was unhappy that UKI had communicated with her directly after she asked it to communicate 
via A. Miss P was unhappy with the delays she said UKI had caused. 
UKI upheld Miss Ps complaint in part. It said there had been some delay due to a colleague 
being on annual leave. But it said its final offer was fair.
UKI agreed to pay a disturbance allowance of 21 days for when the repairs would be carried 
out. This additional sum came to £1,050. It asked Miss P to let it know if she wanted to 
accept the settlement payment. 
Miss P remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. 
Our investigator thought Miss Ps complaint should be upheld in part. She found that UKI 
had caused some delay. It wasnt clear why UKI sometimes contacted Miss P directly, when 
it had been communicating with A. She thought UKI should have provided an accurate 
settlement amount from the outset  and that this should have only changed if new 
information came to light. She couldnt find this was the case, but the offer was revised four 
times. So she understood why Miss P wasnt confident about the settlement offers UKI made 
to her. 
She found that UKI was responsible for periods of delay during October 2019, December 
2019 and January 2020. So for the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss P by its 
handling of the claim, the investigator recommended UKI pay £150 compensation. 
The investigator found that although there was a vast difference between the estimates, she 
couldnt find that UKIs contractor was missing any incident related repairs in their scope of 
works. She did however notice that from the estimates provided by Miss P, they contained 
provisional sums of £6,886 and £6,950 respectively in the event that matching units might 
not be available and to refit the entire kitchen. Our investigator didnt think it reasonable to 
expect UKI to pay an amount for something that might not be needed.
As UKI offered for Miss P to either have their contractor carry out the repair works  or pay 
the equivalent cash sum it would cost UKI, the investigator thought this was fair. 
UKI initially didnt accept the investigators findings, but later agreed. 
Miss P didnt agree. She hasnt provided any further reasons, but wants an ombudsman to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision is broadly in agreement with the investigators findings. 
It isnt clear from UKIs notes as to why the cash settlement offer changed four times. In 
August 2019 the first scope of works repairs came to £2,737.32 plus VAT following UKIs LA 
visit. Following a second visit in June 2020, UKIs LAs scope of works came to a total of 
£5,830.24 including VAT (minus the excess of £450). However, the final cash settlement 
offer UKI confirmed when replying to Miss Ps complaint was quoted as £5,800.34. 
UKI has confirmed to us that the limit of liability rests at £5,830.24 which matches their LAs 
scope of works. 
From both the estimates provided by Miss P they quote a provisional amount of just under 
£7,000 to replace the kitchen if they cant find matching units. I dont think its reasonable to 
expect UKI to pay for something that has been provisionally priced for. Based on all of the 
estimates which Ive considered, I cant conclude that UKIs preferred contractors scope of 
works is missing any incident related repairs. And I think in line with the policy terms, UKI 
can decide to settle Miss Ps claim by paying the equivalent sum that it would cost them to 
carry out the repairs. Insurers can often gain discounted rates with contractors. As Miss P 
didnt want their contractor to repair her property, I think UKIs approach was fair. So I dont 
think it needs to increase the settlement offer above the scope of works sum of £5,830.24. 
Its for Miss P to decide if she wishes for UKIs contractors to carry out the repairs, or accept 
the final cash settlement offer. 
However, I think UKI caused some delay in October 2019, December 2019 and January 
2020. I agree with UKI there were periods when it was waiting for a reply from A. But UKI 
acknowledged a delay on their part when it replied to Miss Ps complaint. And its notes 
shows UKI contacted Miss P while it was dealing via her LA. But there isnt any explanation 
as to why. I can understand why Miss P was concerned as to the accuracy of the settlement 
amounts offered by UKI up until its final offer.
So from all of the information available, I think its fair that UKI pay Miss P compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience its poor service caused. I think £150 as recommended by the 
investigator is fair and reasonable. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require U K Insurance Limited to pay 
Miss P £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its poor service caused. 
U K Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Miss P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate 
of 8% a year.
If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss P how much its taken off. It should also give 
Miss P a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman