DRN-3244044
The complaint
Mrs B complains that MBNA Limited irresponsibly allowed her to open a credit card account 
and later increased the credit limit. She complains the lending was unaffordable.
What happened
Mrs B says she opened the MBNA credit card account in 2005 with a credit limit of £2,500 
which was later increased over the next four years to £5,800 before being reduced to £5,000 
in 2009. She says she had limited income at this time and was for some of the time period a 
full-time student. Mrs B says appropriate checks were not carried out and she had other 
debts as well as financial difficulties. She says the debt problems caused health issues and 
would like interest and charges refunded.
MBNA says it has limited information due to the passage of time but says the debt was sold 
in 2012 when Mrs B told it that she was unable to work due to health issues. It says it no 
longer has account statements before 2010 but has a record of checks being carried out 
when the account was opened which did not show any adverse information on Mrs Bs credit 
file. It also says the account was appropriately managed until 2009 when it reduced the 
credit limit and says appropriate payments were made until 2012. MBNA says it checked 
Mrs Bs other debt which was relatively low.
Mrs B brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought there was limited information available from both sides but thought there was 
evidence of MBNA carrying out appropriate checks. The investigator thought MBNA checked 
Mrs Bs other debt which he thought was relatively low and didnt think there was evidence of 
adverse information at the time such as defaults or arrears. The investigator didnt think it 
possible to say when the credit limit was increased and thought Mrs Bs financial problems 
took place at the time of her health problems.
Mrs B doesnt accept that view and has provided evidence of cash withdrawals from the 
account and says there were late payments. She says MBNA cant provide evidence of 
checking her credit file and was in financial difficulties before her illness. Mrs B says the 
cash withdrawals may have taken place before the last credit limit increase.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs B will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit providers must carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
lending or credit application. Those checks must also be carried out before offering any 
credit limit increases. The checks will of course vary depending on the type and amount of 
any lending. This was of course a credit facility rather than for example a loan or mortgage 
and so I wouldnt have expected MBNAs checks to have been as detailed as for that type of 
lending, but of course appropriate checks must be carried out. I also have to consider, that 
due to the age of this complaint, the checks that were required between 2005 and 2009.
I also make clear that due to the age of the matters complained about that MBNA has been 
unable to provide the usual type of evidence that would normally be present in this type of 
complaint. And that Mrs B has also been unable to provide information such as a full credit 
report covering 2005 to 2009 or full details of her finances from that time such as bank 
statements. So, I have to consider the evidence which is available.
I can see from MBNAs records that checks were carried out on Mrs Bs application. I can 
see MBNA checked her credit file and calculated her other debt. Its records also confirm 
other checks were carried out. So, Im satisfied that MBNA did carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks on the 2005 application and that the lending was not on the face of it 
irresponsible or unaffordable.
I cant be sure when the credit limit increases were applied and so I have looked at the 
information that is held about Mrs Bs account management. I can see that up to 2009 the 
account appears to have been reasonably well managed with regular repayments and about 
3 missed or late payments. I can also see that in around 2009 Mrs B did make a number of 
cash withdrawals which may have led to MBNA reviewing her account and reducing her 
credit limit. I appreciate Mrs B says those cash withdrawals may have taken place before her 
credit limit was increased but I dont think there is any evidence of that and think it more 
likely that any credit limit increases took place before that when the account was managed 
appropriately.
I have looked at the account notes MBNA has been able to provide and can see that Mrs B 
told it that her sister was using her account and making payments. I dont think MBNA could 
have known about that or been aware that Mrs Bs sister was making required payments 
which may have had the effect of explaining why the account appeared well managed.
I can see that Mrs B appears to have made required payments until her health problems in 
2012 but can see that there were signs of financial difficulties before that time and after 
2009. On balance I think it likely that Mrs B was in financial difficulties some time after the 
account was opened and some time after the last credit limit increase which I think would 
have been before 2009. I also think those financial difficulties increased when Mrs B was 
unable to work in 2012.
Overall based on the evidence I have seen that MBNA did carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks on Mrs Bs application and that it likely based on Mrs Bs account 
management that further checks would have been carried out on the credit limit increases. I 
have not seen clear evidence of any factors that ought to have led MBNA to conclude the 
lending or credit increases were unaffordable. For those reasons I cant fairly order MBNA to 
refund any interest or charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman