DRN-3964685
The complaint
Mrs T has complained about St Andrew's Insurance Plc trading as Halifax. She isnt happy 
about the way it dealt with a claim under her home insurance policy.  
For ease of reading any reference to St Andrews includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs T made a claim under her home insurance policy in relation to a possible subsidence 
issue and St Andrews undertook some investigation and initially turned the claim down. 
As Mrs T wasnt happy about this she complained to St Andrews. It looked into things and 
accepted that some of its service was poor and it delayed in responding to Mrs T for which it 
offered £150 compensation. However, St Andrews didnt feel it had done anything wrong in 
the way it initially dealt with the claim. But Mrs T remained unhappy, so she complained to 
this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs T and made it very clear that he was only 
considering matters up to the date of St Andrews final response letter (FRL) of April 2022. 
And solely in relation to how it had considered things up until that point in time he thought St 
Andrews had acted fairly. He agreed the customer service had not been good enough, but 
he thought its offer of £150 compensation for this was fair. He thought that St Andrews initial 
decline of the subsidence claim wasnt unreasonable. And its subsequent suggestion of 
undertaking further investigation in order to get to the bottom of the source of the damage 
and finalising whether this was subsidence or not was fair. Our investigator also considered 
Mrs Ts pricing complaint but having considered the commercially sensitive information St 
Andrews had sent he thought it had acted fairly. 
As Mrs T didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a fair degree of sympathy for the position Mrs T has found herself in and there are 
clearly ongoing issues in relation to her claim. But as our investigator explained most of her 
ongoing concerns cant be considered as part of this complaint. This is because this 
complaint is solely concerned with the issues Mrs T raised, and St Andrews responded to in 
its FRL of April 2022. So, although I can understand why Mrs T wants her additional 
concerns considered here St Andrews has to have the opportunity to respond to these 
complaint points separately. And Mrs T can then advance a complaint to this Service about 
these points if she remains unhappy, but they are separate to this complaint. 
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
In relation to this complaint (up to St Andrews FRL of April 2022) I can see St Andrews has 
acknowledged that its service could have been better, and it delayed in responding to Mrs T. 
But I agree its offer of £150 compensation for this feels fair and is in line with the kind of 
awards this Service ordinarily makes.
Turning to the subsidence claim Ive looked at the position up to the FRL of April 2022. And I 
know Mrs T will be disappointed by this, but I think the steps it took in looking at the 
subsidence claim up until that point in time seem reasonable. I know Mrs T has maintained 
the claim is subsidence, and it is possible that it is, but getting to the bottom of subsidence 
claims can be difficult and drawn out as it has been here. 
The initial reports St Andrews gained suggest that subsidence could be an issue at the 
property. But it went on to suggest further evidence would be required and identified a 
number of further reports that would be required to resolve this, which isnt unusual in 
subsidence claims. And upon receipt of this, and after it issued its April 2022 FRL, it 
suggested further investigation with an eye on finding the source of the damage and 
confirming whether it is subsidence or not. 
I can understand how frustrating Mrs T has found all this and that she remains unhappy with 
events after this period. But up until the point of the April 2022 FRL I think St Andrews 
actions and investigations into the subsidence claim seem reasonable. 
Finally, I can see Mrs T hasnt really responded to our investigators view on the pricing 
complaint she raised. But for completeness Ive had a look over this as well including the 
pricing information St Andrews has provided. I cant share this information with Mrs T as it is 
commercially sensitive, but Ive had a look at the evidence provided and Im satisfied that 
Mrs T has been treated fairly. And in line with any other customer in a similar position to her 
so I think St Andrews has acted fairly overall here. 
Given all of this, I think St Andrews offer of £150 compensation for the poor service it 
provided seems fair. As our investigator highlighted Ill simply leave it to Mrs T to advance 
any ongoing issues she had after the April 2022 FRL separately. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think St Andrew's Insurance Plc trading as 
Halifax offer of £150 compensation in relation to this complaint seems fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman