DRN-1870182
 
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy how Redhawk Legal Ltd (Redhawk) dealt with her claims for mis-sold 
Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). 
What happened
In 2016, Mrs H instructed Redhawk to make claims for mis-sold PPI on her behalf. Some 
claims were successful in February 2019, but all of the compensation was offset against Mrs 
Hs previous debts  shed been declared bankrupt in 2008 and discharged in 2009. So Mrs 
H didnt actually receive anything.
Redhawk invoiced for their fees, in line with the terms and conditions Mrs H had agreed to. 
But, because Mrs H didnt pay these fees, in December 2019, Redhawk transferred the debt 
to a debt collection agency. Mrs H then agreed a reduced lump sum payment with the debt 
collection agency to clear the debt.
Mrs H has complained that Redhawk have charged her fees for PPI claims where she hadnt 
received any compensation. Shes also complained about how Redhawk acted when 
pursuing her for these fees.
Our investigator said that, even though Mrs H hadnt read Redhawks terms and conditions, 
this doesnt mean they dont apply. She felt that Redhawk acted reasonably by charging for 
the work they did, and by passing the debt to the debt collection agency when the fees 
hadnt been paid. And she said we couldnt consider the actions of the debt collection 
agency. So she didnt think Redhawk needed to do anything.
Mrs H didnt agree with the investigator. She says Redhawk were aware of her financial 
difficulties when they were dealing with her claims, and that she replied to a payment plan 
with Redhawk on the day it was offered  before the debt was transferred to the debt 
collection agency. So she doesnt think Redhawk acted reasonably by transferring the debt, 
and she doesnt believe the debt was outstanding for more than six months before this 
happened.
Mrs H has also said that Redhawks original invoice was for £1,487.92, but she ended up 
paying £5,229.38. She doesnt think this is fair, so shes asked for an ombudsman to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and while I appreciate 
this will be a disappointment to Mrs H; Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the 
investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.Firstly, I want to recognise the upset this has caused. I understand that being chased for a 
payment on compensation that wasnt actually received wouldve been upsetting. And it 
wouldve added to any financial pressures Mrs H was under at the time. But, for me to agree 
that Redhawk should compensate her for this, Id need to be satisfied they did something 
they werent allowed to do or didnt do something they shouldve. And in this situation, I dont 
think thats the case.
And while my decision will focus on what Redhawk did or didnt do, I wont be considering 
the actions of the debt collection agency. If Mrs H is unhappy how the debt collection agency 
acted, shell need to raise a complaint with them in the first instance. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service cant become involved in a complaint until the financial business have 
had the opportunity to deal with it themselves.
Ive seen a copy of the Letter of Engagement (LOE) signed by Mrs H on 16 October 2016. 
The LOE said Redhawk charge 30% plus VAT on the successful completion of any claims 
and gave an example of how this would be calculated. And, in signing the LOE, Mrs H 
signed to say shed read, agreed and retained a copy of the terms and conditions.
Mrs H said she never read the terms and conditions when she instructed Redhawk. But she 
signed to say she had. It was her choice not to read the terms, but this choice doesnt mean 
she shouldnt still be bound by them.
Ive also seen a copy of Redhawks terms and conditions and the terms I consider most 
relevant and important are:
9. The Client agrees to pay the Service Charge and is deemed to have irrevocably 
accepted an offer of Compensation in cases where an offer of Compensation, which in 
the reasonable opinion of the Company is fair and reasonable, and is consistent with 
the Financial Ombudsman Scheme.
6. In the event the Company takes steps to recover any Service Charges unpaid by 
the Client to the Company, the Client shall pay to the Company the costs (including 
administrative costs) of taking such steps plus VAT.
In the Fee Examples Table, Redhawk also clearly explained that, where any or all of the 
compensation is used to repay any outstanding debt, their full fee would still remain due.
Although Redhawk made the claims for Mrs H in 2016, it wasnt until February 2019 that the 
claims were successful. Ive seen the PPI provider wrote to Mrs H on 7 February 2019 
explaining the claims had been successful; that the offers had been made in line with the 
Financial Ombudsman Service guidelines; and that any payments would be subject to 
clearance of any arrears you may have with {us}. Mrs H accepted the offers. This meant 
that, under the terms shed agreed to, Redhawks fees were due.
Redhawk started chasing Mrs H for their fees in March 2019, but she told them she hadnt 
received the compensation yet. Ive seen nothing to show me that Mrs H had told Redhawk 
shed previously been made bankrupt up to this point, so everybody assumed there was a 
delay with the payment from the PPI provider. Redhawk kept chasing Mrs H, and it wasnt 
until November that she told them the compensation had been offset against her previous 
bankruptcy.
In an email of 28 November 2019. Redhawk offered Mrs H a payment plan of £50 per 
month, to clear the £1,487.92 she owed in 30 months. This email gave her until 6 December 
to decide whether to accept this or not, and Redhawk said theyd call her about it.Mrs H says she replied to Redhawk the same day about the payment plan. But she also 
says she told Redhawk she was going to get legal advice about the matter. Redhawk took 
this to be a rejection of the payment plan and transferred the debt to the debt collection 
agency on 2 December. This was also the reason they didnt call her back on 6 December.
Mrs H has explained her intentions, which wasnt to reject the payment plan outright on 28 
November. There was clearly a miscommunication here. But Mrs H couldve contacted 
Redhawk when she received the letters from the debt collection agency (sent on 2 
December), and had she done so the payment plan couldve been sorted at this point. But 
she negotiated a reduced lump sum settlement with the debt collection agency instead.
Im satisfied that, overall, Redhawk acted reasonably when dealing with Mrs Hs claims. 
They were unaware of her previous bankruptcy while the claims were in progress, and theyd 
been chasing for their fees since March 2019. They offered a payment plan and were told in 
response that Mrs H was taking legal advice on the matter. They did transfer the debt to the 
debt collection agency four days earlier than they otherwise mightve done, but I dont think 
this detracts from the overall service. So I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint about Redhawk Legal 
Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman