DRN-3427572
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) damaged her kitchen 
woodwork when repairing her dishwasher under her appliance insurance. 
What happened
Mrs J had appliance insurance with D&G for her dishwasher. She claimed under the policy 
because her dishwasher was faulty. However, Mrs J says that when the engineer tried to 
repair it, he damaged the newly painted cupboard door, plinth, and tiles, and he 
disconnected the sink pipe and used her tea towels to clean up without asking for her 
permission. Mrs J says when she told the engineer what hed done, he was rude and 
slammed the door as he left.  
Around 12 days later, Mrs J contacted D&G again to say her dishwasher still wasnt working. 
She then complained about the damage its engineer caused.
D&G paid Mrs J £10 by way of apology for using her tea towels without permission. 
However, it didnt think the engineer caused any damage to the kitchen. The engineer had 
taken photos before he started any repairs and D&G didnt think the damage Mrs J reported 
was any different to the pre-existing state. D&G also confirmed that the engineer wouldve 
had no reason to disconnect the sink pipe. 
D&G eventually replaced the dishwasher, so the claim was settled. But Mrs J remained 
unhappy with the damage to her kitchen. She wanted D&G to reimburse £150, which was 
the cost of fixing the sink, and to pay for the repairs to her kitchen cupboard, plinth and tiles.
Our investigators didnt think D&G had done anything wrong. The policy doesnt provide 
cover for cosmetic damage, and it states Mrs J was responsible for making the appliance 
accessible. Therefore, any damage to the plinth wouldnt be covered.
Mrs J didnt agree. She repeated her complaint that the engineer didnt behave as shed 
have expected, and she wanted D&G to pay for the repairs.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand shell be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Js complaint. Ill 
explain why.
My role here is to decide whether D&G responded fairly to Mrs Js complaint about damage 
caused when it repaired her dishwasher. 
Damage complaint
The actual dishwasher repair/replacement claim is not in dispute. The issue is that Mrs J 
says D&Gs engineer damaged her kitchen while trying to repair the machine.
In its final response to Mrs J after investigating her complaint, D&G said she would need to 
make a public liability claim against the engineer.
Having thought about this, I dont think D&Gs response was helpful. When it appointed an 
engineer to carry out repairs, D&G was responsible for the engineers actions. The policy 
excludes cover for, damage to any other property or possessions, unless it is our fault. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that if the engineer caused the damage, D&G would be responsible 
for covering the cost of repairs. So, D&G shouldve responded to Mrs Js complaint about the 
damage she said the engineer caused rather than referring her directly to the engineers. 
Policy cover
Looking further at the policy, I see it excludes cover for, cosmetic damage such as damage 
to paintwork, dents or scratches. However, I think this is highlighting that the cover is only 
for mechanical or electrical breakdown, and doesnt cover cosmetic damage to her 
appliance. That is, Mrs J couldnt make a claim under her policy if, say, she accidentally 
dented her dishwasher providing it still worked properly. So, I dont think this exclusion 
applies here.
Having decided that the policy covers damage to Mrs Js possessions caused by the 
engineer, Ive looked at whether the evidence supports her claim.
Damage - paintwork
Both Mrs J and D&G provided photos, which appear to show similar damage. The main 
difference between the two sets of photos is that D&Gs engineer took the photos before 
starting work on the dishwasher. This is not an unusual action for an engineer to take when 
there is pre-existing damage. Looking at the damage, I see the plinth has moved out of 
position at one end and paintwork is scuffed. Id expect to see this type of damage if 
something banged into the corner edge of the plinth. The dishwasher cupboard door has 
scuffed paintwork on the inner edges  damage which is typical of that seen if the door was 
snug-fitting and has worn away the upper parts of the paintwork.
Given that the engineers photos were taken before he carried out any work, and the 
damage is consistent with the day-to-day wear and tear described above, Im satisfied that 
the photographic evidence supports D&Gs view that the engineer didnt cause the damage.
Damage - sink waste pipe
Moving on to the sink waste pipe, Mrs J provided photos of it detached from the drainage 
hole. She said she paid £150 for it to be repaired and wants D&G to reimburse the cost. 
D&G said its engineer wouldve had no reason to do anything with the sink waste pipe. 
It's not clear from the evidence why the engineer wouldve need to do anything with the sink 
waste pipe, so I think D&Gs comment is fair. I also note that Mrs J doesnt have any 
evidence that she paid to have it repaired or that it wouldve cost £150.
In light of the minimal evidence available, Im satisfied that D&G fairly concluded its engineer 
wouldnt have worked on the sink waste pipe. Therefore, I see no reason to ask D&G to pay 
repair costs.
Tea towels
Mrs J said the engineer used her tea towels, without permission, to clean up. D&G paid £10 
by way of apology. I understand Mrs J wouldve been upset, but I think D&Gs offer was fair in the circumstances because it wouldve covered the cost of cleaning or buying new tea 
towels. I wont be asking D&G to increase the offer for this issue.
Engineer behaviour
I understand Mrs J complained about the damage directly to the engineer on the day of the 
repair. She says he was rude and slammed her door on leaving. D&G has no record of this 
incident. I accept it wouldve been upsetting for Mrs J to experience what she considered to 
be rude behaviour. But without evidence, I cant fairly conclude that the engineer did 
anything wrong.
Summary
Overall, I havent seen any evidence which persuades me that D&G is responsible for any 
damage to Mrs Js kitchen fittings, although D&G did pay £10 by way of apology for the tea 
towels. And while I dont think it was helpful for D&G to direct Mrs J back to the engineers 
instead of responding fully to her concerns, it hasnt made a material difference to my 
decision. So, I see no reason to ask D&G to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman