DRN-4393773
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that a car he ordered through Automobile Association Developments 
Limited trading as British School of Motoring (BSM) hasnt been provided.
What happened
Mr L is a professional driving instructor under a franchise agreement with BSM. In November 
2022 he ordered a new car for his franchise, which was to be provided by BSM under a hire 
agreement. On receiving the order, BSM confirmed that Mr Ls existing franchise agreement 
would continue until the new car was supplied to him, and the terms of the new franchise 
agreement wouldnt start until the new car had been delivered to, or collected by, Mr L.
Mr Ls existing franchise agreement was due to expire in February 2023, but BSM hadnt 
supplied him with the new car he ordered by this date, and they couldnt provide any 
confirmed date of delivery. Unhappy with this, he complained to BSM.
BSM didnt uphold the complaint. They said the delays were due to supply chain issues 
which had affected the motor industry worldwide and were outside of their control. Mr L 
wasnt happy with this response, and he brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for investigation.
Our investigator said BSM had made Mr L aware there were delays, which were outside of 
their control, and that no specific timeframe for delivery had been given. She also said that 
Mr Ls existing franchise agreement continued until the new car was provided to him, so he 
wasnt left without transportation or a means to continue his business. Given this, she didnt 
think BSM needed to do anything more.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator. He said that, although he was advised of delays, he 
thought the length of time the car had now been delayed was unreasonable. He explained 
that, as he was changing from a manual to an automatic transmission, this has made it 
difficult taking on new pupils without a timeframe for the new car being delivered, and that 
this has affected his income. 
Mr L was also unhappy that his new franchise agreement was cheaper than his existing 
agreement, and that hes not been able to start making the lower payments, while the 
sickness cover that was linked to his existing agreement has now ceased. Mr L explained 
that BSM hadnt been able to provide him with a temporary replacement automatic car while 
he was waiting for the one he ordered, and he thought BSM were favouring new franchisees 
over existing ones when making new cars available.
Because Mr L didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. BSM ordered the car for Mr L as a credit broker, and as an 
ancillary action to this and to their franchising activity  the car was only ordered by BSM as 
they were also arranging the finance for Mr L, so the two are intrinsically linked. So, as credit 
broking is a regulated activity, this is something were able to look at.
However, when considering this complaint, Im only able to consider the hire agreement and 
the ancillary action of the ordering of the car. I wont be considering Mr Ls complaints about 
the other aspects of his franchise agreement with BSM, such as the sickness cover, the cost 
of the franchise agreements, and/or Mr Ls belief that BSM are favouring newer franchisees 
over existing ones when supplying cars. This is because the franchise agreement is not 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, so isnt something we have the powers to 
consider.
Ive seen that, in the covering letter to Mr Ls order for the new car, BSM said Please note 
that due to circumstances beyond Our control, including semiconductor shortages and other 
industry-wide factors affecting the supply of new vehicles in the UK, the delivery of Your new 
Tuition Vehicle may be delayed.
Its not disputed that Mr L was also verbally advised of the delays when he ordered the car. 
And I havent seen anything to show me that Mr L was ever provided with any firm timescale 
in which the car would be provided. As such, while I appreciate Mr L expected the new car to 
be provided before or around when his existing franchise agreement expired in February 
2023, I cant agree that BSM ever confirmed or indicated that would be the case.
Its my understanding that Mr L still hasnt been provided with the new car, almost 12-months 
after originally placing the order. And I agree with him that this delay is unreasonable. 
However, I havent seen anything that shows me BSM were in any way responsible for this 
delay. So, while I appreciate the frustration and inconvenience this must be causing Mr L, its 
not something I think BSM should compensate him for.
I also appreciate the frustration Mr L has been caused by both not being able to take on 
pupils who want to learn in an automatic car; and the reluctance to take on pupils who want 
to learn in a manual car, when he was unsure how long he would have a manual car for. Ive 
seen that the franchise agreement Mr L was moving to is the only one offered by BSM where 
they dont supply pupils, which shows me the existing franchise agreement he had includes 
a pupil introduction service. And, as Ive already said, I cant consider aspects of the 
franchise agreement.
However, as the Pupil Terms of the agreement Ive seen doesnt exclude Mr L from taking 
on pupils that havent been provided by BSM, I have considered this when considering 
whether BSM should compensate Mr L. And I dont think they should. I say this because the 
issues and concerns he has with taking on pupils stems from the delay in the new car being 
supplied to him, which as Ive said is outside of BSMs control. So, as theyre not responsible 
for the delay, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask them to compensate Mr L for any issues that 
may be caused by that delay. As such, I wont be asking BSM to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about Automobile Association 
Developments Limited trading as British School of Motoring.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman