DRN-3838581
The complaint
Ms B has complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined a claim for an escape of 
water at her home.
What happened
Ms B was having a new bathroom fitted. When the plumber was finishing stripping the 
bathroom, he found a water leak. So, Ms B contacted QIC to make a claim. QIC sent a 
surveyor to inspect the damage. It then declined the claim because it said it was a gradual 
leak. It also said Ms B had breached the terms of the policy because it was unable to assess 
the severity of the damage prior to items being removed.
Ms B complained to QIC, which maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, Ms B 
complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said although the leak 
was gradual, QICs field surveyor had said Ms B wouldnt have been aware of the leak due 
to its location. She said QIC should consider the claim without applying the exclusion for 
gradual damage. She also said although Ms B had removed items from the property, they 
were in a skip outside the property so could have been inspected.
As QIC didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that there was a water leak at the property. Both Ms Bs 
plumber and QICs surveyor found an issue with the kitchen wastewater pipe. However, the 
water leak was assessed to be gradually occurring. So QIC declined the claim because it 
applied an exclusion that said the policy didnt cover water leaks that happened gradually. 
Im aware Ms B disputes that the water leak happened gradually, but based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for QIC to decide this was the case.
Where a leak is gradual, I need to consider whether Ms B should reasonably have been 
aware of the leak and the gradual damage. Ive looked at QICs surveyor report. This said:
Given the extent of damage at the property this leak has been ongoing for a significant 
period of time, however we understand that the bathroom had a wet floor arrangement, 
along with the concealed pipework behind wall linings, it is likely the [policyholder] was 
unaware of the ongoing damage.
So, I think QICs surveyor assessed whether Ms B was likely to be aware and clearly 
explained why she wouldnt have been. As a result, I dont think QIC can fairly apply the 
exclusion for gradual damage.
QIC has also argued that because the bathroom had been stripped out, it wasnt able to 
assess the damage prior to the strip out to validate the claim. From what Ive seen, Ms B has 
been consistent in her description of why the bathroom had been stripped out. This was 
because it was being refurbished. Ms B has said it was only when nearly everything had 
been removed from the bathroom that the plumber realised there might be a leak. He then 
investigated further and found the faulty connection. So, I havent seen evidence to show the 
bathroom was stripped out because of the leak itself or that it happened after the leak was 
found. I can understand that QIC would have wanted to see the condition of the bathroom 
before it was stripped out, but it had already been stripped out before it was identified that 
there might be a leak.
QIC also said Ms B had breached a requirement in the policy that said You must not 
destroy or get rid of any damaged items without our agreement, as we may need to inspect 
them.  The items had been removed from the bathroom as part of it being refurbished and 
were available for inspection in a skip at Ms Bs home. In the circumstances, I think that was 
reasonable and Im not persuaded Ms B breached the policy.
As a result, I uphold this complaint and require QIC to reconsider the claim without applying 
the exclusion for gradual damage or terms and conditions related to breaching the policy 
because of the bathroom being stripped out or that the items were in a skip.
Putting things right
QIC should reconsider the claim without applying the exclusion for gradual damage or terms 
and conditions related to breaching the policy because of the bathroom being stripped out or 
that the items were in a skip.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
QIC Europe Ltd to reconsider the claim without applying the exclusion for gradual damage or 
terms and conditions related to breaching the policy because of the bathroom being stripped 
out or that the items were in a skip.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman