DRN-2073451
The complaint
Miss S complains that Santander UK Plc failed to close her account when she asked it to, 
failed to call her back when it said it would, and that its staff were rude to her on the phone. 
What happened
Miss S had a current account with Santander. In January 2020 she asked Santander to 
close her account, but this did not happen until March. She says this caused her stress. In 
the meantime, she says Santanders staff were rude to her on the phone and broke their 
promises to call her back. Being dissatisfied with Santanders response, she brought this 
complaint to our Service.
Santander said the account had been overdrawn, and so while it had been overdrawn it had 
not been possible to close the account. But the overdraft was the result of two chargeback 
credits being re-debited because Miss S had already received refunds from a third party, and 
as Santander was not sure that it had explained that could happen, it agreed to write off the 
overdraft balance as a gesture of good will and close the account. It denied that its staff had 
been rude or that they had provided bad service, and provided 51 call recordings to prove it.
Our investigator listened to all of the call recordings and concluded that in none of them had 
anyone been rude to Miss S. He accepted Santanders explanation for why the account had 
not been closed when Miss S had asked, and he thought that Santander had been more 
than fair when it had written off her overdraft balance. He did not uphold this complaint. 
Miss S asked for an ombudsman to review her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
However, I have not listened to 51 call recordings, as I do not think that would be 
proportionate. Instead, I have listened to four which I selected randomly as a sample. I had 
been going to listen to five (ten per cent), but on the fourth call Miss S shouted and swore at 
Santanders staff, using the foulest language, and persisted in doing so after she was 
repeatedly asked to stop. During this call the call handler demonstrated the utmost patience 
and professionalism, and when she finally ended the call it was a reasonable response. So 
I do not think it is likely that anyone would have been rude to Miss S on the other calls. This 
part of Miss Ss complaint is likely to be based on her perception of the calls, in which she 
did not always get her own way, rather than being based on actual rudeness. I do not uphold 
it.
I have seen Miss Ss bank statements for the relevant period, and I can see that two refunds 
were made to her account and later reversed. The first reversal reduced the account balance 
from zero to an overdraft, and the account remained overdrawn until Santander wrote off the 
overdraft (which was £86.55) and closed the account. I think that is a reasonable explanation 
for why the account was not closed earlier, and if the chargeback procedure was not clearly 
explained then that is fair compensation. Santander also paid her £30 for that issue.
Finally, Santander told Miss S it would call her back within two working days. Miss S 
interpreted that as 48 hours, but that is not the same thing, and while I can see why Miss S 
thought Santander had failed to call her back on time, I dont agree that it did.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman