DRN-2187208
The complaint
Mr H complains that the cash he received from his pension policies was lower than hed 
been quoted by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited. He considers hes 
lost out because Sun Life corresponds by post.
  
What happened
Mr H wanted to withdraw cash benefits from two pension policies he held with Sun Life. He 
completed the forms based on figures provided by the business. But the amount he received 
was about £500 lower than he was expecting, because the unit value for one of the pensions 
fell between him giving instructions and the date of encashment.
Mr H considered the loss was unfair because hed had to return the instruction forms by 
post. He considered Sun Life should absorb this loss. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied the 
information provided by Sun Life made it clear that the pension values would be different to 
those quoted in the illustrations. 
In addition, the investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for Sun Life to correspond by 
post.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He said, in summary, that he 
considered Sun Lifes operating system was fundamentally flawed and not as efficient as it 
should be. He said Sun Life should have honoured the figures quoted in its illustrations, 
because its chosen method of communicating unfairly penalised customers. Mr H mentioned 
other pension policies hed encashed where he hadnt suffered any loss. 
The matter has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate why Mr H is unhappy that he had to return Sun Lifes forms by post. He says 
this isnt the most efficient way to communicate, and created the loss he suffered when the 
unit price fell.
Sun Life has explained that it requires a wet signature on its forms to protect customers 
against fraud. I dont think thats unreasonable. 
Im mindful that Sun Life also processed Mr Hs request immediately on receipt. So overall, 
Im not persuaded that Sun Life did anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly in the way it 
dealt with his request. 
Ive also considered the information Mr H received from Sun Life before he gave his 
instructions. The illustrations provided in March and May 2020 said:
When you come to take your benefits the actual amount will be different. This is because 
the value of your plan can change depending on how your investments perform and any 
charges, including exit charges that we apply. 
The plan summaries also said:
Please note that unit prices may fall as well as rise.
Sun Life sent the relevant instruction forms to Mr H in early June 2020. The covering letter 
for each plan included an estimate of the plans value and said:
This is an estimate, because the value of your plan can go up or down depending on how 
your investments perform, how much you save into your plan, and when you take the cash.
Having considered all of the relevant correspondence, Im satisfied that Sun Life made it 
clear the quoted figures werent guaranteed, and that the unit price could fall as well as rise. 
This is in line with the terms and conditions that govern the pension policies. The letters sent 
in early June specifically said that the quoted figures were estimates. 
Even if Sun Life had accepted instructions by alternative means (such as electronically), the 
value of the unit price wouldve still fluctuated. So there wouldve been no guarantee that the 
quoted figures wouldve remained the same between Mr H receiving his illustration and 
giving instructions  whether or not those instructions were sent by post.  
That means Im not persuaded that Sun Life was obliged to honour the figures it had quoted 
as Mr H suggests.
Ive noted what Mr H has said about pensions hes encashed with other providers, where he 
didnt suffer any loss. But I can only consider Sun Lifes actions and having done so, Im not 
persuaded the business has done anything wrong. So I wont be asking it to compensate Mr 
H for the loss he considers hes suffered.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman