DRN-3539151
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy about the early redemption charge (ERC) that was applied when 
they ported their interest rate product to a new, smaller mortgage with Santander UK Plc. 
They are unhappy that Santander didnt deduct the amount of the 10% annual overpayment 
allowance from the amount they reduced their borrowing by, before calculating the ERC. 
This means that they were charged almost £2,000 more than they were expecting. 
What happened
In 2019 Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage for £405,999. Attached to the mortgage was an 
interest rate product that had a term to 2 December 2024. The mortgage offer sent to them 
detailed how the mortgage would work, including that an ERC was payable during the 
product term and that overpayments could be made. 
Under the header Early repayment Santander detailed that 5% of the amount repaid on or 
before 2nd December 2024. Examples were given, and for the interest-only part of the 
mortgage (£350,999) the ERC was constantly detailed as £17,549.95, which is 5% of the 
interest-only balance. The example figures for the repayment section of the repayment part 
of the mortgage reduce over time, as the balance would also be reducing.
The offer then set out some Flexible features that applied to the mortgage:
Overpayments
If there is a product related early repayment charge, you can made additional capital 
repayments of up to 10% of the loan balance in each calendar year. 
Overpayments in excess of 10% may attract an early repayment charge, on the excess 
amount.
Please refer to the Early repayment section for details.
Moving Home
You have the right to transfer this loan to another property. You must meet conditions set out 
in the mortgage conditions under Transferring your loan to a new mortgage. You must also 
meet our lending criteria and pass our affordability assessment at the time.
Mr and Mrs H decided to move home in 2020 and applied, via an independent broker, for a 
new mortgage with Santander for £315,000. They asked to port their interest rate product to 
the new mortgage. Santander accepted the application and the mortgage completed, along 
with the interest rate product transfer. At the time the existing mortgage was repaid, it had an 
outstanding balance of just under £404,000. As the new mortgage was smaller than the 
existing one, they were charged an ERC on the difference.  Mr and Mrs H paid an ERC of 
£4,445.90.
Mr and Mrs H complained.
Santander responded to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. It apologised that some information 
Mr and Mrs H had requested wasnt contained in the letter it had sent them. However, as the 
10% overpayment allowance didnt apply to redemptions, it was satisfied that it had 
calculated the ERC correctly. 
Mr and Mrs H werent satisfied with Santanders response and asked us to look at their 
complaint. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend it be upheld. 
She explained that the overpayment allowance and repaying a mortgage were different 
things and so we wouldnt expect the overpayment allowance to be deducted from the 
amount of the mortgage reduction before the ERC was calculated. She was satisfied the 
mortgage had been administered correctly and no refund was due Mr and Mrs H.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the investigator and asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman. They highlighted that theyd contacted Santander, but they hadnt been given a 
breakdown of how each redemption figure had been calculated. They said that they think 
Santander should have been obliged to provide this information to them. Mr and Mrs H 
asked if the ERC would have been calculated differently if the reduction in their mortgage 
amount had been treated as a capital reduction  and the 10% charge free element applied. 
They also raised that the mortgage terms and conditions nor the mortgage offer, didnt 
specifically state the 10% overpayment allowance would be excluded if the mortgage was 
transferred to another property. Mr and Mrs H quoted section 10.4 of the terms and 
conditions:
You may reduce the money you owe us at any time by making a capital payment. If you 
wish to make a capital payment, you must:
a) Tell us that you want to make a capital payment, when you want to make it and how 
you want it to be applied;
b) Make the payment by one of the following methods: by online payment from your 
bank account, by card payment to us, by direct debit, by bank transfer or by cheque
Mr and Mrs H subsequently said that their request to reduce the mortgage, as part of the 
re-mortgage, served as notification that they wanted to make a capital repayment, even if 
they didnt specifically say that. They said that Santander didnt make it clear that a capital 
repayment via a re-mortgage was treated differently from a borrower asking to make a 
capital reduction. As such, Santander had failed to treat them fairly and provide clear 
information. 
The investigator confirmed that Mr and Mrs H had taken out a new mortgage on their new 
home and had ported the interest rate product. The existing mortgage had been entirely 
repaid, rather than reduced. She went on to say that a capital payment was a payment to an 
ongoing mortgage account. As Mr and Mrs H had asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman, it has been passed to me for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Santander has already acknowledged that it should have provided Mr and Mrs H with the 
information they wanted. It apologised for this error and so I dont propose to comment 
further on this issue.
I would firstly say that mortgages can be complicated products and that is why most 
consumers seek advice before applying for one. The lender or mortgage broker will explain 
the mortgage being taken out. In situation like Mr and Mrs Hs, where there would be 
significant costs associated with paying off their existing mortgage, a broker would explain 
why it had concluded staying with the same lender was the right thing to do and how any 
new mortgage and porting would work. That would include any ERCs that would be payable. 
In this case Mr and Mrs H sought advice from a mortgage broker. They have questioned 
whether their broker would have understood from the original mortgage offer and terms and 
conditions that the 10% overpayment allowance wouldnt be deducted when their ERC was 
calculated. I can assure Mr and Mrs H that as a mortgage professional, the broker would 
have understood that an overpayment allowance wouldnt be taken into account when the 
mortgage was paid off, as this is how mortgages work across the board.
As our investigator explained, Mr and Mrs H werent re-mortgaging. That term is used for 
when a new mortgage is taken on an existing property. In addition, a capital reduction 
payment is where the capital balance is reduced on an existing mortgage. The payment will 
be less than the balance of the mortgage and will not repay it completely. What 
Mr and Mrs H did was take out a new mortgage on their new property and transferred the 
interest rate product to the new mortgage in order to avoid paying all of the ERC linked to it, 
as I am sure their broker would have explained. 
Mr and Mrs H have said they think that the overpayment allowance should have been taken 
into account when the ERC was calculated; I dont agree. The mortgage conditions allow for 
limited overpayments to be made without an ERC being paid. However, Mr and Mrs H didnt 
make overpayments and werent asking to do so. In order for them to have taken advantage 
of this allowance they would have had to make the 10% payment separately and on a date 
before that of their sale and purchase.  Mr and Mrs H were repaying their mortgage and 
taking out a new one, so I dont think Santander should have taken the overpayment 
allowance into account when calculating the ERC payable. 
I note that Mr and Mrs H have highlighted that the terms and conditions dont say that the 
10% overpayment allowance wont be deducted from any ERC at redemption. They dont 
have to. Terms and conditions set out how the mortgage contract works, not how it doesnt. 
Just because terms and conditions dont say that something cant or wont happen, it 
shouldnt be assumed that it can or will.
I am satisfied that Santander did nothing wrong in not deducting the 10% overpayment 
allowance from the amount Mr and Mrs H were reducing their mortgage by before 
calculating the ERC. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision 
before 19 July 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman