DRN-3195493
The complaint
Mrs T has complained about the service she received from British Gas Insurance Limited 
(BG) under her HomeCare policy.  
What happened
Mrs T says she held a HomeCare policy with BG between 2005 and 2017, which included 
the benefit of an annual boiler service. She later cancelled the policy due to the cost.
Unfortunately, Mrs Ts boiler failed in 2020 and she claimed for a replacement boiler through 
her insurer at the time. The insurer turned down the claim as it said the boiler didnt have a 
full-service history, specifically for the years 2015 and 2017.
Mrs T said the boiler had been installed in 2014, so she expected services to be carried out 
annually from this point. She complained to BG as she said shed requested a service in 
October 2015 which wasnt actioned, and that the service she booked in October 2017 
wasnt done until January 2018. 
To put things right, Mrs T wanted BG to compensate her for failing to carry out the two 
services and refund her full premium for the associated policy years.
BG said it had contacted Mrs T to book the 2015 service and said the delay in the 2017 
service was due to high demand during the winter months. So, it didnt agree it had done 
anything wrong in line with the policy terms.
Mrs T didnt agree and brought her complaint to our service. Upon Mrs T referring her 
complaint, BG offered her £65 compensation for the missed 2017 service. Mrs T rejected 
BGs offer.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. They 
concluded that whilst they couldnt say for certain that the missed services directly 
contributed to the boiler failing, they did lead to Mrs Ts subsequent claim being declined 
under her new policy. And they concluded that as BG hadnt provided the service under this 
section of the HomeCare policy, it should refund the premiums associated with the central 
heating cover and annual service costs for 2015 and 2017, along with simple interest.
BG didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said the onus was on Mrs T to 
book the service in good time to ensure it fell under the period of agreement. It said it wasnt 
required to complete or offer service visits within a reasonable timescale, it just had to 
complete one per contract year. And it said the service costs were incorporated into the 
premium, so it would only look to refund one or the other in any event.
Mrs T provided further comments for the ombudsman to consider, which included concerns 
about BGs ability to complete an annual service within each period of agreement, as set out 
in the policy terms. Mrs T added this rendered the service history of her boiler to be 
incomplete and invalid in any event, and so BG should compensate her towards the cost of 
the replacement boiler.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that Mrs T requested her service date in 
2015 to be moved to October as shed recently installed a new boiler. Ive seen no 
evidence that BG responded to her enquiry, and Mrs T has also said that she 
couldnt rebook a new service unless invited to by BG. And given that Mrs T 
continued to get her boiler serviced in future years when prompted, Im more 
persuaded that she wouldve done so had BG acknowledged and actioned her 
request to move the service date.
Im also satisfied Mrs Ts request for a service in October 2017 was reasonable in the 
circumstances. Mrs Ts policy ran from December to December each year. And whilst 
BG has said to our service that it isnt required to carry out the service in a 
reasonable timeframe, the policy terms Ive seen explicitly state, We will carry out 
any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable timeframe, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible. This term is contained in the 
same policy section as Annual service and so Im satisfied it applies here.
So, I need to consider whether around three months was a reasonable time for Mrs T 
to have to wait for her boiler to be serviced, also taking into account that her period of 
agreement ended in December 2017. What is reasonable depends on the 
circumstances of each case. BG has said it is busier during the winter months as it 
prioritises call outs for broken heating systems. But Im not persuaded that seasonal 
variation is some thing that is beyond its control  heating systems are always most 
likely to go wrong during periods of cold weather. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded that the 2017 service was done within a reasonable 
timeframe, and I think Mrs T could reasonably have expected that it wouldve been 
completed within the period of agreement. 
I agree that BGs actions here cannot be directly linked to the failing of the boiler in 
2020, as this couldve happened in any event. But BGs actions have had an impact 
on Mrs Ts claim being turned down. So, as it didnt provide the agreed services for 
the two policy years when asked, it follows that it should refund Mrs Ts premiums for 
this part of the policy cover.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In order to resolve Mrs Ts complaint, British 
Gas Insurance Limited must:
Refund the premiums for the central heating cover section of Mrs Ts policy for the 
years 2015 and 2017.
Add 8% interest simple a year from the date the premiums were paid to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman