DRN-4238083
The complaint
Ms F complains Lloyds Bank PLC didnt help her when she had problems accessing her 
account online.
What happened
Ms F has a current account with Lloyds Bank with a debit card.
Ms F has told us that she doesnt have a phone, and she doesnt want one. Shes also told 
us that she has mobility issues  a disability  and that she considers herself vulnerable.
Ms F has told us that she had no difficulties managing her account before March 2020  she 
would go into branch and the staff there were helpful and friendly. She has also told us she 
set up her account in March 2020 so that she could access it online given the imminent 
lockdown and initially had no problems.
Ms F says Lloyds Bank introduced changes to the way its online banking worked a couple of 
months after shed set up her account so she could access it online. Ms F says she started 
to have difficulties accessing her account after Lloyds Bank introduced these changes 
because it kept on saying that shed need a phone in order to authenticate. In particular, she 
had a problem making a payment in July 2020 as she was no longer in a position to post or 
print letters  to stay safe  and so could no longer use cheques as she had been doing.
Ms F complained to Lloyds Bank in January 2021 about the problems she was having, and 
then to us. Shes complained about a number of other issues whilst Lloyds Bank was looking 
into her complaint and whilst we were. Ill mention some of those in this decision. For 
example, she complained that she wasnt receiving hard copy statements every month. She 
also complained about her overdraft being removed  meaning she would be charged very 
high interest rates if she went overdrawn  and not being sent a chip and sign card.
Lloyds Bank investigated Ms Fs complaint about the difficulties she was having accessing 
her account online. Having done so, Lloyds Bank accepted that it didnt offer a way for its 
customers to authenticate without using a phone and that Ms F would need to come into 
branch or contact businesses she wanted to pay directly. Ms F was unhappy with Lloyds 
Banks response, not least because shed told Lloyds Bank that she wasnt going out in 
public given her concerns about Covid and she felt it lacked empathy and understanding.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Fs complaint and said that Lloyds Bank hadnt acted 
fairly and that it should offer Ms F an alternative way of authenticating and pay her £200 in 
compensation. That was in February 2022. Lloyds Bank agreed to pay Ms F £200 in 
compensation but said that it didnt have an alternative way of authenticating that didnt 
involve a phone. In April 2022 Lloyds Bank agreed to pay an additional £150 to reflect the 
fact that it couldnt offer an alternative.
In May 2022 Lloyds Bank told us that it was planning to launch a token that would allow its 
customers to authenticate without the need for a phone, and that this token was expected to 
launch in June 2022. Ms F was happy to settle her complaint on that basis.
Lloyds Bank told us that it had ordered a token for Ms F in July 2022, but it didnt arrive. Our 
investigator contacted Lloyds Bank on a regular basis over the following months as Ms Fs 
token still hadnt arrived. Lloyds Bank told us at the end of March 2023 that it still hadnt sent 
a token out to Ms F because it hadnt resolved a technical issue with her profile. Our 
investigator wrote to both parties to let them know that this complaint would in the 
circumstances be re-opened and an ombudsman would look into it. Thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed this file, I contacted Lloyds Bank for an update and to check whether or not 
the token it was offering would allow Ms F to authenticate when she wanted to do online 
banking and online shopping, or only when she wanted to do online shopping. I did so 
because my understanding was that Lloyds Banks token only allows customers to 
authenticate when theyre doing online shopping. In other words, Lloyds Banks offer 
wouldnt resolve Ms Fs main complaint which is about not being able to access her online 
banking. Lloyds Bank told me that it would send me an update. It didnt, so I issued a 
provisional decision in which I mentioned, amongst other things that Lloyds Banks failure to 
update me was extremely poor given how long this complaint had already been outstanding.
In my provisional decision I set out what I thought should happen next. Before doing so, I 
said I thought it was helpful to set out what had happened in this complaint and how 
authentication is meant to work in a bit more detail. Heres what I said:
strong customer authentication and the changes Lloyds Bank made
Lloyds Bank has told us that it made changes to its processes in order to implement 
new regulations that came into effect in September 2019 that affected the whole 
banking sector  namely the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). Those 
regulations required payment service providers (PSPs) to apply strong customer 
authentication in certain circumstances. Those circumstances are set out in in Article 
100 of the regulations which says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a 
payment service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of 
payment fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication 
for online banking and has given the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to 
implement strong customer authentication for online payments. The e-commerce 
industry includes card issuers, payment firms and online retailers. There was, of 
course, nothing to stop firms bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than 
that, if they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as the revised Payment Services Directive  define strong customer authentication as:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, 
in that the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other 
element, and designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the 
authentication data, with the elements falling into two or more of the following 
categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession); and
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence).
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking 
that the person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic 
payment is permitted to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question 
using factors based on knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at 
least two independent factors when doing so. They cant, for example, check using 
only knowledge based factors, but they can check using one or more knowledge 
based factors and one or more possession based factors. Ms F is unhappy that 
Lloyds Bank changed its processes  she wants to be able to carry on logging on the 
way she had done before  and unhappy that the changes involved her having to use 
a phone in order to authenticate.
Lloyds Banks approach to implementing strong customer authentication
I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of Lloyds Bank to implement strong 
customer authentication  its an important measure to help combat fraud. Ms F 
would like to carry on logging onto online banking the way she used to. I can 
understand why shes said this, but I dont necessarily agree with her that I should be 
telling Lloyds Bank not to implement strong customer authentication measures for 
her account. I do, however, agree with our investigator that Lloyds Bank needs to 
offer alternative ways of authenticating that are viable for customers like Ms F. Id like 
to explain what the FCA has said about strong customer authentication and its 
expectations first before saying what I think that means in this case.
What has the FCA said about strong customer authentication and its 
expectations?
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has published several papers about 
strong customer authentication and its expectations and it has written to firms about 
this too. In a paper published in June 2019  Payment Services and Electronic 
Money  Our Approach  the FCA described its approach to the PSRs and payment 
services and e-money related rules in its Handbook. In paragraph 20.21 of its paper 
the FCA said:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary 
for a PSP [Payment Service Provider] to provide different methods of 
authentication, to comply with their obligation to apply strong customer 
authentication in line with regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not 
all payment service users will possess a mobile phone or smart phone and 
payments may be made in areas without mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a viable means to strongly authenticate customers in these situations.
The FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere that 
businesses shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers 
and should provide viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA 
has, in my opinion, also made it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes 
people who dont possess a mobile phone or a smart phone and not just those who 
cant use one. The FCA has talked, for example, about managing the potentially 
negative impact of strong customer authentication on different groups of customers 
particularly the vulnerable, the less digitally engaged or located in areas with limited 
digital access. And the FCA has also talked about the need for firms to develop 
strong customer authentication solutions that work for all groups of consumers and 
has said that this means they may need to provide several different authentication 
methods for your customers. Ms Fs complaint is, as Im about to explain, wider than 
this. She doesnt want to use phones at all  and not just mobile phones.
Why is Ms F complaining?
Ms F is complaining about two things, broadly speaking, namely that she doesnt like 
the fact that Lloyds Bank has changed its processes  shed rather go back to the 
old way of logging on  and shes not happy with the options Lloyds Bank offers. 
Lloyds Bank accepted  following our investigators view  that none of the options it 
offered at the time worked for Ms F given that they all involved phones at some 
stage. Lloyds Bank subsequently offered her a token, but its more likely than not that 
this wouldnt have resolved Ms Fs complaint  had Lloyds Bank actually sent her 
one in the twelve months since it originally offered one  for the reasons Im about to 
set out.
Should Lloyds Bank have done more for Ms F?
No-one is disputing the fact that Lloyds Bank could and should have done more. 
Thats because Lloyds Bank accepts that all of the options it offered at the time Ms F 
complained involved the use of a phone at some stage. The question is whether or 
not Lloyds Banks offer of a token made a difference.
Lloyds Bank offered to send Ms F a token she could use to authenticate. Thats an 
offer its made on other cases  and its an option that Ive previously explored with 
Lloyds Bank. Having previously done so, Lloyds Bank accepted that it had wrongly 
claimed the token would help customers authenticate when theyre doing online 
banking and online shopping. I issued a Final Decision on this point in September 
2022 in which I said:
Shortly after I started looking into this complaint, Lloyds Bank said that it was 
planning to introduce an option to authenticate using a token. I explored the 
token with Lloyds Bank further as it looked like it might solve Mr Hs 
complaint. Having done so, it became clear that the token only allows 
customers to authenticate when theyre doing online shopping  it doesnt 
allow them to authenticate when theyre doing online banking. Thats 
important because Mr H is only interested in online banking, so the token 
doesnt help.
Lloyds Bank said at the time that it would check whether this error had an impact on 
any other complaints involving strong customer authentication that it was looking at / 
had attempted to resolve  which would have included Ms Fs complaint. Its 
disappointing that Lloyds Bank appear not to have followed this through  even more so given the issues Ive already identified with its response to this complaint.
Other issues
Ive seen Ms Fs statements and it appears that she doesnt use her Lloyds Bank 
account on a regular basis  and that theres no activity on her account some 
months. Lloyds Bank doesnt send statements to customers when theres no activity 
on the account in any given month. I can, therefore, understand why Ms F wasnt 
always receiving statements and can see that Lloyds Bank has explained this to her. 
Because there was so little activity on the account, Lloyds Bank says it also withdrew 
her overdraft limit. Again, I can see Lloyds Bank has explained this to Ms F, and its 
something we see. In the circumstances, and because these appear to be separate 
complaints, I dont plan to say more unless Ms F can show  in response to this 
provisional decision  that the reason why she wasnt using her account on a regular 
basis was because of the difficulties she was having authenticating. If so, these 
would be issues that I could consider as part of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I also said what I thought Lloyds Bank should do in order to put 
matters right. I said:
Im satisfied that Lloyds Bank doesnt offer a solution that works for Ms F, 
notwithstanding what the FCA has said. It means Ms F wont be able to manage her 
account the way shed like to. Im also satisfied that there have been very lengthy 
delays in this complaint, and that Ms F has been anxious throughout that time. In the 
circumstances, Im minded to require Lloyds Bank to pay Ms F £750 in compensation 
in full and final settlement of her complaint  reflecting the distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced to date and the fact that she wont be able to 
manage her account the way shed like to going forwards.Putting things right
Both parties replied to my provisional decision. Lloyds Bank agreed to pay £750 
compensation and Ms F said shed like her account to go back to the old way of working. In 
addition, she asked about the token Id mentioned and how that worked. For the reasons I 
gave in my provisional decision, I dont think it was unreasonable of Lloyds Bank to make 
changes to its processes in order to implement strong customer authentication. I also, 
however, remain of the view that Lloyds Bank doesnt appear to be offering a solution that 
works for Ms F, notwithstanding what the FCA has said. And I remain of the view that this 
means she wont be able to manage her account the way shed like to going forwards. The 
compensation to which Lloyds Bank has now agreed reflects that. So thats the award Im 
going to make and is an award in full and final settlement of this complaint. That doesnt 
mean that I dont expect Lloyds Bank to get to the bottom of why its having difficulties 
getting a token set up for Ms F given that this would at least allow her to shop online. In the 
event that Lloyds Bank doesnt do so within a reasonable time, Ms F would be able to raise a 
fresh complaint about Lloyds Bank failing to provide her with a token.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and requiring Lloyds Bank PLC to pay 
Ms F £750 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused  £350 of 
which it has already paid  in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman