DRN-3839152
The complaint
Mr M complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd gave him unsuitable investment advice. His 
complaint is brought on his behalf by a Claims Management Company (CMC).
What happened
In June 1997, Mr M was advised to invest £100 per month into the Maximum Investment 
Plan  the Managed Fund (MIP). The MIP was for 10 years and included life cover worth 
£18,000, which was the minimum amount of life cover to make the MIP qualifying for tax 
purposes. This meant that Mr M would be entitled to the proceeds free from tax.
Mr M maintained the plan until maturity in May 2006. In total he paid in £12,901.20 and 
received back £16,142.86.
The following was recorded in the fact find:
 Mr M was in his late twenties, single with no dependants.
 Mr M was self-employed with an annual income of £50,000.
 His monthly income was £3,000 and with monthly expenditure around £1,150, he had 
ample net disposable income out of which he said he could comfortably afford to pay £300 
per month.
 Mr M lived with other adults in the family home  which was owned free from mortgage.
 Mr M was contributing into a pension plan of his own.
 He may have had some assets and investments (although the details are unclear). What 
is known is that a regular savings plan with another provider had ended in January 1997 and 
Mr M wanted to resume paying £100 into a monthly savings scheme. 
 His attitude to investment risk was assessed as balanced. 
 His investment objective was for capital growth. Mr M told the adviser he wanted to 
accumulate capital in 10 years time for a rainy day. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In brief 
summary, he didnt think the life cover wouldve paid out in the event of Mr Ms death and 
said there were alternative investment options open to Mr M (such as a Personal Equity Plan 
(PEP) or Individual Savings Account (ISA)) which offered tax incentives without the 
monthly investment amount being reduced by the cost of life cover. 
Whilst the CMC endorsed our investigators viewpoint, Zurich partly disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsmans decision. In short, it made the following key points:
 Zurich noted that the investigator had concluded that Mr M had the capacity to invest 
some of his money into a suitable investment that met his attitude to risk and, on balance, 
made an informed decision to proceed with the MIP  and Zurich agreed.
 Zurich also did not dispute that Mr M had no recorded insurable interests at the time of 
sale. But it thought it important to recognise that Mr M appeared to have been making a 
financial contribution towards the shared household costs and so his death would have 
impacted financially on other household members. In any event, it said the inclusion of 
minimal life cover was necessary to ensure the proceeds were payable tax free and the cost 
represented just 0.6% of the monthly contribution yet meant the proceeds could be paid tax 
free at the end of the term. 
 Zurich wasnt able to offer a suitable PEP from its own product range and it said the 
adviser would have provided Mr M with a buyers guide/Terms of Reference explaining he 
did not have access to the whole of the market and Mr M would have known he was free to 
shop around if hed been unhappy with this arrangement. Zurich said it was entirely 
satisfied that the MIP was an appropriate recommendation and met Mr Ms needs.
 Zurich didnt agree that Mr M wasnt made aware of the deductions to the potential yield or 
that the impact of the life cover cost could mean the advice was unsuitable.
The investigator, having considered Zurichs further representations, wasnt persuaded to 
change his mind. The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Zurich has consented to us looking into Mr Ms complaint about what happened in 1997 
when it recommended the MIP, so I am satisfied that I can consider the complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that the MIP was unsuitable for Mr M as he had to pay to 
include automatic life cover which, being single with no dependants, Mr M had no need of. 
On balance, I find that Zurichs recommendation to Mr M to invest £100 per month into the 
MIP was suitable. In particular, in my opinion, the cost of the life cover didnt make it an 
unsuitable recommendation. Ill explain my reasons.
Looking at what was recorded about Mr Ms financial situation at the time, I find that he had 
sufficient financial resources to be able to absorb some element of loss if he had needed to 
 so, he was able to take some risk when investing. I am satisfied that he was in a strong 
enough financial situation to be able to invest £100 per month. 
Zurich said he was identified as having a balanced to speculative attitude to risk which fits 
comfortably with Mr Ms most important stated investment objective - building up capital 
through savings. Given this objective, I think Mr M needed to invest in a risk-based 
investment. And the MIP recommended broadly matched his risk approach, comprising 80% 
in more volatile equities (potentially offering increased scope for growth) and 20% in lower 
risk asset classes (so offsetting the risk of loss). 
I think its likely the main features of the MIP were discussed by the adviser and set out in 
the product paperwork that the adviser made available for Mr M, as reflected in the 
recommendation. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mr M knew he was signing up to a level of risk for this 
particular investment in order to obtain the capital growth he hoped for. 
Leaving aside the issue of the life cover included automatically as part of the MIP, our 
investigator didnt think there were any other grounds for saying that Zurichs 
recommendation wasnt suitable. And as far as I can see, Mr M hasnt disputed that 
conclusion. So I dont think I need to say more about suitability generally and I will 
concentrate on the life cover. 
I've taken into account that the CMC says Mr M wasnt interested in life cover. And it would 
have been better for Mr M if more of the £100 he paid each month had been applied towards 
boosting his investment rather than being applied towards covering the cost of life cover he 
didnt ask for or need. Zurich believes the life cover that this plan provided would have been appropriate and 
important for Mr M because, amongst other things: 
although it does not dispute that Mr M had no recorded insurable interests, Mr M 
contributed to the household so others would have been impacted by his death, 
making life cover potentially useful.  
Mr M was a higher rate taxpayer, so in 1997 he would have had tax deducted from 
interest which would have reduced the return he received if he hadnt had life cover. 
The cost of the life cover within the plan was minimal and was at the lowest level 
possible to allow the proceeds at the end of the term to be paid tax free. 
I think those are fair points and it shows that there were some clear benefits to Mr M having 
life cover. In addition, in terms of the life cover provided by the MIP, I note that the sum 
assured was set at the minimum level required to ensure the policy was qualifying in terms 
of its tax status. This indicates to me that the inclusion of life cover was unlikely to have been 
one of the main objectives for the policy being sold. In my view it was more likely that the 
policy was sold as a means to provide Mr M with a savings plan  which it did. 
Even though the Bank of England base rate was 6.25% when the plan started in June 1997,  
Zurich specifically mentioned on the personal Illustration prepared for Mr M that charges 
effectively reduced the industry standard investment growth figures shown, down from 7.5% 
to 5.2% per year. So I think it's fair to say this information was made available to Mr M. The 
plan had previously been delivering significantly higher returns than those shown. And Ive 
seen insufficient evidence to suggest that the life cover made the policy unsuitable. At just 
£0.58 a month (so less than £70.00 over the whole 10 years term) this cost would most 
likely have been more than offset by the tax-free benefits the MIP offered Mr M in his 
particular circumstances.  
So, given that I have identified no other reasons why the recommendation was unsuitable, 
there are no grounds for me to uphold this complaint.
In coming to my decision, Ive thought carefully about the CMCs comments made in 
response to our investigators view that Mr M would have been better off investing in a PEP, 
which it said was: not only much more tax efficient than the endowment savings plan (as 
the fund grew free of tax) but it had considerably lower charges and much more flexibility. 
This option should at least have been explained to Mr M. 
But Im mindful of the potential for PEPs to require greater contributions or lump sums (which 
Zurich has said its PEP product did), so theres no guarantee Mr M wouldve found 
something he preferred in any event. And as Zurich didnt offer a PEP that was suitable for 
Mr M, I wouldnt reasonably have expected Zurich to discuss this option. Mr M knew he 
could get advice elsewhere if he wanted to find out about other options Zurich didnt offer. 
I am looking at whether the MIP was a suitable recommendation for Mr M when he was 
advised to invest in it  not necessarily how it compared to other products available 
elsewhere in the marketplace. In my opinion, the MIP wasnt too risky for Mr M or otherwise 
unsuitable and overall, I am satisfied that it met his identified needs and investment 
objectives and it was a suitable investment for him.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
On Mr Ms behalf, the CMC provided some additional information which it asked me to study 
and said:
the regulation applicable from 1 Jan 1995 meant that the adviser had to not just consider one product but discuss with the client the options available to him 
(regardless of whether or not he had them in his product range because if he didnt 
then he should have offered the client the option to discuss the matter with an 
Independent Financial Adviser).
The adviser did not fulfil the requirements that were in place at the time. Mr M was 
not even informed of what a PEP was never mind any discussions about the 
advantages and disadvantages of the products that should have been brought to his 
attention.
Mr M was a higher rate taxpayer and was already at a disadvantage from day one as 
the endowment plan invested in a fund where the funds were taxed. This is a 
material fact that should have been brought to his attention but clearly wasnt.
The endowment plan actually had no real advantages over the PEP.
Zurich said it had nothing further to add.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and for responding to my provisional decision. I appreciate that Mr M feels strongly about 
what happened and he holds a different view to me. I would like to assure Mr M that Ive 
taken carefully into account everything thats been said, including the CMCs comments in 
response to my provisional decision and the additional information I've been sent. This 
includes guidelines to be followed in making suitable recommendations: the adviser 
should prepare a list of suitable products from the range available to him. It also makes 
clear that Zurichs adviser had a duty to recommend the most suitable investment from the 
product range Zurich offered. The PEP Zurich offered didnt match Mr Ms requirements as 
he wanted to make monthly payments to build up his investment  the PEP Zurich offered 
at the time only allowed for a lump sum investment. I said in my provisional decision that 
Mr M knew he could get advice elsewhere if he wanted to find out about other options 
Zurich didnt offer. That remains my view. 
After taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision, and as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional 
decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman