DRN-2965433
The complaint
Mr R complained that George Banco.com Limited (trading as Georgebanco.com) lent to 
him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr R was given a single loan by Georgebanco.com as follows: 
Date Amount TermMonthly 
repaymentAPRTotal amount 
payable
09/11/2017 £5,500 36 
months£268.02 49.74% £9,648.72
Mr R mainly said that this loan was unaffordable for him. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Rs complaint. He upheld the complaint and set out 
what he thought Georgebanco.com should do to put things right. 
Georgebanco.com disagreed with our investigator and asked for the case to be reviewed by 
an Ombudsman. The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles and questions I need to think about when deciding 
whether to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a 
borrower can afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Georgebanco.com did what it 
needed to before agreeing to lend to Mr R and thought carefully about the following key 
questions:
 Did Georgebanco.com complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr R would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 Did Georgebanco.com act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Georgebanco.com asked Mr R for details of his income and did a background check to 
verify this. It asked Mr R about his monthly expenditure and carried out a credit check 
to gain an understanding of his financial situation. 
I have reviewed the information Georgebanco.com gathered when it agreed to provide this 
loan. It noted that Mr Rs average net salary was around £4,500 monthly. After looking at the 
credit report information it gathered, Georgebanco.com allowed for his declared monthly 
outgoings, including the amount it saw from its credit checks that he was already paying for 
existing credit, and worked out that he should have around £483 left over after making the 
monthly repayments for this loan. 
So Georgebanco.com was satisfied that the contractual loan repayments for this loan would 
have been affordable for Mr R.
But Georgebanco.com was required to establish whether Mr R could sustainably make his 
loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments looked affordable on a strict pounds 
and pence calculation. 
Like the investigator, I dont think Georgebanco.com made a fair lending decision when 
it lent to Mr R based on the information it had gathered. I say this because 
Georgebanco.com saw that in the two months before Mr R took out this loan in 
November 2017 had taken out three other loans  including one in September 2017 for 
the substantial amount of £8,500 along with two smaller loans that together came to just 
under £1000. I dont think the suggestion that he was borrowing to assist someone else who was having 
money problems explains the fact that Georgebanco.com could see from its credit checks 
that Mr R had been routinely using expensive short-term credit over the whole of the 
previous 12 months  and beyond. I think Georgebanco.com should have realised that what 
Mr R had told it appeared to be at odds with what its own credit checks showed so it needed 
to carry out further and more in-depth checks to gain a proper understanding of his financial 
situation to ensure it didnt lend to him unfairly. And also bearing in mind the amount 
borrowed, the total repayment and the length of the loan, I dont think its checks were 
proportionate. 
So I've thought about what a proportionate check would have likely revealed to 
Georgebanco.com.
I've looked at bank statements provided by Mr R which I think are a useful guide to 
understanding Mr Rs overall financial situation at the time. I think if Georgebanco.com had 
done a proportionate check before lending, it wouldve seen information broadly confirming 
(as it has said) the expenditure information it had gathered but nothing to reassure it that this 
loan was likely to be sustainably affordable over the loan term. I say this because if 
Georgebanco.com had gained a better understanding of Mr Rs finances and his use of 
credit, it would have realised that he was repeatedly taking out expensive loans  and that 
not only was this an established borrowing pattern but the indications were that he might be 
becoming reliant on using credit to supplement his income (irrespective of the reasons he 
had given for taking out this loan). 
I've taken into account that Georgebanco.com said it lent £4,500 to Mr R in order to 
consolidate all payday loans and to complete home improvements. It said it was aware that 
Mr R had taken the payday loans to assist his ex-partner who had financial difficulties and 
said that clearing these payday loans would increase Mr R's monthly net disposable income 
which would be considered a responsible decision. It said the remainder of the loan was 
being used to complete home improvements which were considered a necessity as they 
were being used for roof repairs at the property. And the £8,500 loan was taken for a car 
purchase. Georgebanco.com said that Mr R's credit file showed the total amount of money 
needed to clear all payday loans was £2,199 - which covered the recent payday loans 
showing on his credit file plus the additional payday loans our investigator identified on 
Mr R's bank statement. So it felt confident the amount of money lent was sufficient to cover 
the costs of Mr R's outstanding debts and didnt agree that this money was lent irresponsibly 
as it said this loan would improve his overall financial wellness.
But given his recent borrowing, I think there was a real risk that Mr R might use this loan to 
help him meet his immediate need to make loan repayments (rather than as part of a 
planned debt management strategy) with the result this loan would simply add to his existing 
debt.
And even if Mr R had used this loan to repay some existing debt, I dont think 
Georgebanco.com was able to safely say this wouldve improved his overall position 
sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement overall in his long term 
financial situation. 
Just under half the loan amount would be needed for the stated purpose of debt 
consolidation and I dont think borrowing this amount to repay short term debt over a 3-year 
term was a real improvement in Mr Rs financial situation.  Thinking about all of this information, I dont think Georgebanco.com could reasonably have 
satisfied itself that providing this loan to Mr R wouldnt put him in a worse position by 
increasing his overall indebtedness and adding to his debt costs  at a time when the 
indications were that he was already struggling to manage debt. So for these reasons, Im 
upholding Mr Rs complaint irresponsible lending complaint.  
I havent seen anything which makes me think Georgebanco.com acted unfairly towards 
Mr R in some other way. So I dont award any additional redress. But Mr R has paid interest 
on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to him. So Georgebanco.com should now take 
the following steps to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr R told us he accepted my provisional decision. 
Georgebanco.com has confirmed it will settle the complaint following my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Georgebanco.com for responding to my provisional decision to confirm it will settle the 
complaint in the way I set out in my provisional decision. 
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr R to repay the capital amount that he borrowed when 
he took out the loan, because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has had to pay 
interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to him.
If Georgebanco.com has sold the outstanding debt it should now buy it back, if its able to do 
so and then take the following steps  otherwise, if Georgebanco.com isnt able to buy the 
debt back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below.
Georgebanco.com should:
 add up the total amount of money Mr R received as a result of having been given the loan. 
The repayments Mr R made to this loan should be deducted from this amount.
 I understand that Mr R has paid more than he received, so Georgebanco.com should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*. 
 Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Rs credit file in relation to the loan.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Georgebanco.com to deduct tax from this interest. 
Georgebanco.com should give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if 
he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct George Banco.com Limited trading as 
Georgebanco.com to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman