DRN-3988063
The complaint
Mr M complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr M is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In May 2014, Mr M purchased a solar panel system (the system) from a company which Ill 
call P. He financed it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
loan was paid off in August 2016.
In November 2020, the CMC made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. The 
CMC said that P had made the following misrepresentations that had induced Mr M to enter 
into the contract:
The system would be self-funding in that the combined income and savings would 
cover the monthly loan repayments. 
Shawbrook acknowledged the claim but did not provide a full response. So, the CMC 
referred a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. In February 2022, the CMC 
informed Shawbrook that it also wanted to make the claim under section 140 of the Act. It 
said that due to the misrepresentations made, and breaches of the Renewable Energy 
Consumer Code (RECC) that Shawbrooks relationship with MR M was unfair on him. 
Shawbrook explained that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr M or 
that its relationship with Mr M was unfair on him. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. They looked at this under section 
140 of the Act and concluded that there had been no misrepresentations and that 
Shawbrooks relationship with Mr M was not unfair on him. So, Shawbrook did not have to 
uphold the claim. 
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
Shawbrook and P were unable to provide a copy of the quote and told the CMC this 
in October 2022 but did provide a copy when requested by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 140 of the Act. Section 140 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
I do not think section 75 is relevant in this case, since the claim under that section may have 
been made outside of the time limits allowed. And under section 140 I can consider all the 
allegations made to see if there was an unfair relationship.
Section 140 allows the courts to consider if a relationship between a creditor and debtor is 
unfair on the debtor. In doing so, the court can look matters relating to linked agreements, in 
this case the sale of a solar panel system paid for using a point-of-sale loan.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr M and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or its agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Shawbrook had a duty to treat Mr M fairly when it decided not to uphold his claim. 
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr M says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and quote. Ive considered these, along with Mr Ms 
testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to 
have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process, and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
The CMC says that Mr M didnt have a copy of the quote. It hints at something untoward in 
Shawbrook not being able to produce this until a complaint was made to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. However, Im satisfied this is the type of quote P was using at the time 
of sale, having seen many other examples of this where its veracity has not been 
questioned. This quote was provided to us in February 2022, when Shawbrook sent us its 
file. Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mr Ms 
version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the cash price, the amount being borrowed, the interest to be 
charged, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr M was told that the cost of the system was £8,958.60, the 
monthly payment was £94.49, the total amount of credit was £8,708.60 and the total amount 
payable would be £17,258.20.
Overall, Im satisfied that P made it clear that although the cost of the system was £8,958.60, 
it would cost Mr M more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing 
loan. 
Feed-In Tariff (FIT) payments
The quote shows the estimated FIT payments in year one and on average over 20 years as 
follows:
I think it is clear from this that Mr M could expect to receive a total FIT income in year one of 
£610.01. This would be an average monthly income of £50.83. This is less than the monthly 
loan repayment of £94.49. I think these figures wouldve been discussed with Mr M, so Im 
not able to conclude that the Mr M was told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT payment.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr M could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £278.53 and the combined income and savings in 
year one is shown as £888.54. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together, and is 
significantly less than the annual loan repayment of £1,133.88. 
Theres a section headed System Performance and Returns with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 
months because this is the length of the loan that Mr M entered into with Shawbrook. This 
table shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £94.50. 
For each year of the 15-year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. 
It then averages that figure over 12 months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of 
£94.50, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the system and the 
monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think this clearly shows that average monthly returns would be less than the loan 
repayment at the start of the loan term. 
In summary, I think that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the 
salesperson went through at the meeting. So, I dont think I can reasonably find that Mr M 
was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payments.
Self-funding
I have found that Mr M was not told the system would be immediately self-funding. However, 
I do accept that Mr M was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a certain 
duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by the end of year 15 the overall benefits that 
Mr M could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
Im satisfied that P told Mr M that the system would pay for itself by the end of year 15, and 
this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of 
fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr M. I have looked at Mr Ms FIT statements and Im satisfied that 
the system is performing as expected based on the statements provided.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used data as stated in national newspapers in 2013 to calculate the utility price and RPI 
inflation between 2004 and 2014. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between the 
sale and 2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale 
and I think this explains why Mr M hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have 
been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the inflation information 
available in national newspapers in 2013. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable 
for P to have used that as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr M 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr M entered into the 
contract.
Im not persuaded that the system was misrepresented to Mr M or that there were breaches 
of RECC that made Mr Ms relationship with Shawbrook unfair on him. Shawbrook has 
confirmed it paid no commission to P in this case. So that could not have created an unfair 
relationship either. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr M to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to conclude that Mr Ms 
relationship with Shawbrook was unfair on him. So, I dont think that Shawbrook acted 
unfairly by not upholding Mr Ms claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman