DRN-4400119
The complaint
Miss K complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream) 
allowed her to take out a loan she couldnt afford, because she had other payday loans 
outstanding and a poor credit score. 
What happened
Miss K was advanced one loan of £320 on 29 January 2015. Miss K was due to make six 
variable monthly payments with the largest one being £145.92. Miss K had some issues 
repaying the loan and it was eventually settled on 29 June 2017. This occurred after what 
appears to have been an offer Lending Stream made to Miss K. 
Following Miss Ks complaint about the loan sale, Lending Stream wrote to her to explain 
why it wasnt going to uphold it. Unhappy with this response, Miss K referred the complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The case was then considered by an adjudicator. The adjudicator didnt think Miss Ks 
complaint should be upheld because in his view, Lending Stream carried out proportionate 
checks which showed it that Miss K would be able to afford the loan. There also wasnt 
anything else that suggested Miss K couldnt repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
Miss K didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment and so the complaint was referred for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream had to assess the lending to check if Miss K could afford to pay back the 
amount shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances of the application. Lending Streams checks couldve 
taken into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size 
of the repayments, and Miss Ks income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss K. These factors 
include:
Miss K having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss K having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss K coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss K. The adjudicator didnt consider 
this applied in Miss Ks complaint and I agree, as only one loan was granted. 
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Miss K could sustainably repay the loan  
not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having 
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss K was able 
to repay her loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ks complaint.
As part of her application, Miss K declared a monthly income of £1,400. Lending Stream 
says it didnt feel it needed to make any adjustments to this income figure based on what it 
knew about Miss K.  
Miss K also declared monthly outgoings of £425. This was broken down as £275 for normal 
expenses with £150 being attributed to credit commitments. Lending Stream says it looked 
at other information such as statistics that relate to the population and it considered how 
much people typically spend with their income. Having carried out this further check, Lending 
Stream didnt make any adjustments to the expenditure figures Miss K declared. Based on 
the income and expenditure details the loan looked affordable. 
Before the loan was approved Lending Stream also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a summary spreadsheet of the results it received 
from the credit reference agency. I want to add that, although Lending Stream carried out a 
credit search, there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific 
standard.
Lending Stream was also entitled to rely on the information it was given by the credit 
reference agency. So, Ive looked at the results to see whether there was anything contained 
within it that wouldve either prompted Lending Stream to have carried out further checks or 
possibly have declined Miss K s application.
Having looked at the credit check results, in my view there wasnt anything that wouldve led 
Lending Stream to have carried out further checks. It knew Miss K had seven active 
accounts owing £2,100 and had accounted for them in its expenditure assessment.
Lending Stream could also see that Miss K hadnt defaulted on any accounts within the last 
three years or had any delinquent accounts either. Overall, there wasnt any signs, from the 
credit check to indicate Miss K was in financial difficulties, or to have prompted 
Lending Stream to carry out further checks.  
Given it was early on in the lending relationship  and Miss K was only granted one loan, 
I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to have relied on the information Miss K 
provided to it  which showed she had sufficient disposable income to afford the loan 
repayments. There also wasnt anything else to suggest that Miss K was having either 
current financial difficulties or to indicate the loan repayments would be unsustainable for her 
for some other reason. Taking everything into account, I do no not uphold Miss Ks complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold Miss Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman