DRN-3232961
The complaint
Mr A complains because Bulstrad Life Vienna Insurance Group JSC (Bulstrad) hasnt paid 
a claim under his travel insurance policy for a trip that was cut short. 
All references to Bulstrad include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr A held an annual travel insurance policy, purchased in April 2019 through an independent 
broker. The insurance cover was provided by Bulstrad. 
Mr A was abroad when, on 13 March 2020, the government in the country he was visiting 
announced that all flights to and from Europe would be cancelled from 16 March 2020 due to 
the circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
The UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO)) subsequently advised against all but essential travel to the 
country Mr A was in. The FCDO also said it strongly encouraged non-resident British 
nationals in that country to consider leaving.
Mr A therefore cut his trip short and returned to the UK earlier than planned on 15 March 
2020. 
Mr A made a claim under his policy with Bulstrad for the cost of his new return flight, less the 
refund he received from his airline for his original return flight.
Bulstrad said Mr As claim wasnt covered under the curtailment section of his policy, and 
that his policy also had an exclusion for claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the 
government of any country. Unhappy, Mr A complained to both the broker who sold him the 
policy and to Bulstrad, before bringing a complaint about Bulstrad to the attention of our 
service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said she didnt think she could 
fairly ask Bulstrad to accept Mr As claim. Mr A didnt agree with our investigators opinion, 
so his complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say 
insurers must handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these 
rules into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr As complaint. 
I understand the situation which Mr A found himself in was completely unprecedented and 
outside of his control. I also understand, when this insurance policy was purchased in April 
2019, the circumstances that unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt have been foreseen by 
either consumers or insurers. 
However, no insurance policy covers every situation and insurers are entitled to decide what 
level of risk they are prepared to accept in return for the premium charged. Its up to a 
policyholder to ensure that they have the level of cover which meets their needs. Bulstrads 
obligations under its contract with Mr A are limited by the terms, conditions and exclusions 
which are set out in his policy.
The policy terms and conditions, at page 5 under the heading Cancellation and Curtailment 
 What you are covered for, set out the circumstances under which Bulstrad will pay a 
curtailment claim. These are:
1. the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close 
relative or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip; or
2. you being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law (but not as an 
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend 
court); or
3. your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of 
employment for a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any impending 
redundancy at the time this policy was issued or the trip was booked; or
4. your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, flooding 
or fire;
5. the police requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary at 
your home; or
6. your passport, or the passport of any person you were intending to travel with, 
being stolen during the 7 days before the start date of your booked trip; or
7. you, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of the Armed 
Forces, emergency services, the nursing profession or a government employee 
being ordered to return to duty.
I understand Mr A says, if hed remained abroad, hed have risked being put into quarantine 
in the country he was visiting, and that quarantine is covered under the above policy 
wording. However, Mr A didnt cut his trip short because he was subject to quarantine. He 
cut his trip short because of travel restrictions which were put in place by a foreign 
government  which was subsequently followed by FDCO guidance to consider returning to 
the UK. These arent reasons which are insured or covered under the Cancellation and 
Curtailment section of Mr As policy. 
I should also point out that, under the Cancellation and Curtailment  What you are covered 
for section of the policy, Bulstrad will only pay for unused costs, and not for additional costs 
 which is what Mr A is claiming for. 
Ive reviewed the remaining sections of Mr As insurance policy, but I dont think he held 
cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances he found himself in. 
In any event, Mr As policy, at page 6, under the heading Cancellation and Curtailment  
What you are NOT covered for specifically excludes the following;7. claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country. 
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available under 
Mr As policy. On page 1, the IPID says:
What is not insured?  
x Claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country
Im satisfied that this exclusion was clearly and transparently highlighted to Mr A by Bulstrad 
in the policy documentation.
I think the restrictions imposed by the government in the country Mr A was visiting due to the 
spread of Covid-19 are what led to Mr A cutting short his trip. So, not only is the reason for 
the curtailment of his holiday not covered as a listed, insured event under Mr As policy, I 
think the exclusion quoted above applies to the circumstances of his claim anyway. 
Ive considered what Mr A has said about potentially having no cover under his policy if hed 
remained abroad against FCDO advice, because of an exclusion set out on pages 3 and 11 
of his policy. However, based on the particular circumstances of this complaint (including the 
dates and wording of the specific FCDO guidance involved, exclusion 7 quoted above and 
the relevant policy documentation), I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon 
which I could fairly ask Bulstrad to pay this claim. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, but I wont be directing Bulstrad to do anything further. 
As a final point, Mr A has mentioned the length of time Bulstrad took to send him a final 
response letter about his complaint. Bulstrad sent Mr A a final response letter on 23 April 
2020. Mr A could have brought a complaint to us about Bulstrad from this time. The final 
response letter sent to Mr A in September 2020 was from his broker who, as our investigator 
has explained, is a separate and distinct financial business to Bulstrad. Bulstrad isnt 
responsible for the brokers actions, or vice versa. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman