DRN-2613682
The complaint
Mr B complains about how One Call Insurance Services Limited administered his motor 
insurance policy. He wants a refund.
What happened
Mr B applied for a motor policy though an online comparison site and he took out one 
through One Call. Mr B changed his mind the same day, but he was told that if he cancelled 
he would be charged £49.99. He thought this was unfair. The insurer then asked Mr B to 
check his details and hed inputted the date hed bought his car incorrectly. The insurer said 
an additional premium would be applied and One Call collected this from his account. One 
Call waived its fee for changing his details. But Mr B remained unhappy.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought One Call 
had reasonably informed Mr B of the admin fee due if he cancelled during the cooling off 
period. And he thought One Call had told Mr B that it would collect due amounts using his 
Continuous Payment Authority. So he thought One Call had acted fairly and reasonably. 
Mr B asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has explained, were unable to consider here Mr Bs complaint that the 
insurer charged an additional premium. This is because the insurer is a different business 
and if Mr B is unhappy with this additional premium then hed first have to complain directly 
to the insurer. 
But I can consider Mr Bs complaint about One Calls actions. Our approach in cases like this 
is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
and fairly and reasonably.
Mr B was unhappy that One Call said it would charge him a cancellation fee even though he 
asked to cancel on the same day hed taken out the policy. I can see that this £49.99 policy 
administration fee is clearly set out in One Calls list of charges. Its shown that these were 
provided to Mr B before he took out the policy and hed have had to agree to these in order 
to buy his policy.
I think the fee is reasonable for the amount of work entailed in setting up a policy. I can see 
that One Call explained to Mr B the manual checks it needed to carry out when it set up the 
policy. So I cant say that One Call acted unfairly or unreasonably when it told Mr B that the 
fee would be charged if he cancelled his policy. 
Mr B was unhappy that One Call collected the additional premium from his account. But I 
think One Call made it clear to Mr B in the policy documents that it would collect any monies 
owing under his Continuous Payment Authority. One Call wrote to Mr B to tell his that it 
would collect the additional premium. I cant see that Mr B objected to this at the time. So I 
think it acted fairly and reasonably and in keeping with the policy terms and conditions. I 
dont require it to make Mr B any refunds.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman