DRN-3841357
The complaint
R, a limited company complains that First Data Europe Limited (First Data) unfairly blocked 
its card machine. R wants First Data to refund the money it withheld, reimburse it for the cost 
of taking out a new card machine and pay compensation for lost income. 
R is represented in its complaint by Mrs B, the representative of a director of R, Mr B.
What happened
R held an agreement with First Data for merchant acquiring services. In March 2021, First 
Data gave 60 days notice of its intention to terminate Rs merchant account. 
First Data says that when R set up its merchant account, it confirmed it would be trading as 
a restaurant and would be processing 1% of transactions as card not present (CNP). As R 
was in breach of the terms, First Data says it didnt do anything wrong when it gave R notice 
of termination and withheld funds in case of chargebacks.
The investigator didnt recommend that Rs complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that under 
the terms of Rs agreement, First Data was entitled to terminate the agreement and withhold 
funds. 
R was unhappy with the outcome. Mrs B said that First Data accepted its invoices as 
evidence of the CNP payments and said they were fine. After the investigator questioned 
this, Mrs B confirmed that First Data didnt agree R could take more than 1% CNP 
transactions.
Mrs B says that the only reason R was processing more than 1% CNP transactions was due 
to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic which meant they didnt have fact to face contact 
with customers staying at the hotel.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised Rs complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt 
mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me.
First Data took a commercial decision to end Rs agreement and this service wouldnt 
usually interfere in the exercise of a businesss commercial discretion. However, I can 
consider whether First Data made that decision fairly. It will be disappointing for R, but 
having considered everything, Im not persuaded that First Data acted unreasonably or that it 
treated R unfairly. 
Im satisfied that when R signed up for the account with First Data, it said that it would be 
processing 1% of transactions as CNP and that it was trading as a restaurant. After First 
Data carried out a review of Rs account it realised that it was trading as a hotel and was 
processing more than 1% of transactions as CNP. So, I cant find it was unreasonable for 
First Data to decide to terminate Rs account. First Data gave R 60 days notice of its 
intention to terminate in line with the terms of Rs merchant agreement. I consider this was 
fair in the circumstances.
I can see that in March 2021, R told First Data that it shouldve been aware R was operating 
as a hotel and referred to an earlier complaint to this service. To make sure Ive taken 
account of everything, Ive had a brief look at the earlier complaint against First Data. I can 
see that Mr B brought it in his own name  not that of R. Even if First Data was aware that 
Mr B had previously used one of its card machines for hotel transactions, I must go on what 
was in Rs merchant application form. It clearly says the card payments were for 
restaurant, not the hotel. So, it doesnt change my decision not to uphold Rs complaint. 
Although Mrs B says that the reason it was processing more CNP transactions was due to 
the impact of the pandemic, as the investigator said, we dont have evidence to suggest that 
R raised this with First Data before it sent the notice of termination. And regardless of the 
reason why, it still meant R was acting outside the agreed terms of its account. 
R was unhappy that First Data withheld money in its merchant account but this is in line with 
the terms of the merchant agreement. This allows First Data to pay funds due to a merchant 
into a reserve account, so that First Data can pay any merchant liabilities, such as 
chargeback claims. As a chargeback claim can be made up to 180 days after a payment is 
made, I dont consider First Data was wrong to withhold the money in Rs account, although 
it has since been released to R.
As I dont find First Data acted unreasonably toward R or made any mistake, I dont require it 
to take any action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman