DRN-3947002
The complaint
Miss C has complained about her property insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc in relation to a 
claim she made to it following water damage to her property from the flat above. 
What happened
Miss C made a claim to AXA in November 2020  there had been a leak from the flat above 
hers and damage had been caused. Miss C felt the owner of the flat above was negligent 
and didnt get the leak repaired quickly enough. When she made the claim she mentioned 
this to AXA and it said it had a recoveries team and liability would be considered.
The claim didnt progress as Miss C would have liked and, in July 2021, having completed 
work at the property in May and June 2021, AXA returned Miss Cs keys to her and issued a 
final response. A complaint was made to this service and our Investigator felt AXA had 
caused some delays. He said AXA should pay £750 compensation. Both parties accepted 
that. But Miss C noted she then had further concerns, including in respect of the work that 
had been done.
In August 2021 Miss C said the work was poor and not up to standard. She listed the 
problems she had and provided photos. AXA felt the problems were not caused by its poor 
work  that they were pre-existing, in the case of the uneven floor, for example, or had been 
caused by further leaks occurring, eg regarding a stained ceiling. In September 2021 and 
then March 2022 AXA said that if Miss C wanted to progress this she could get expert 
reports on the damage for it to consider. Miss C obtained reports but did not submit them to 
AXA. She later told us that the she did not submit them because she felt AXAs response 
meant it wasnt prepared to deal with her on this issue anymore.
Miss C was also unhappy that AXA hadnt sought to recover its claim outlay from the owner 
of the other flat. AXA told Miss C that it hadnt thought it had any viable chance of recovery 
but upon receipt of further evidence from Miss C, AXA agreed to refer the matter to its 
solicitor for review. Following that AXA again decided to not pursue recovery. Miss C said 
this had caused her financial loss because any future premium would now be increased and 
her £350 policy excess for the claim wouldnt be refunded. AXA felt that, overall, it had acted 
fairly regarding recovery. 
Regarding future premiums Miss C was also concerned that AXA had chosen not to renew 
her cover. Her policy had been due to renew in September 2021 but AXA had told her it was 
not inviting her for renewal. Miss C asked AXA to tell her why but it would not. Following the 
complaint being made to our service AXA said it felt it had acted unfairly by not offering 
renewal to Miss C. It said it would offer £200 compensation to make up for that.
Our Investigator explained he could only look at what had happened since the work had 
been done  so at Miss Cs concerns about the work and the additional issues of recovery 
and renewal. He felt that AXA had reasonably agreed to look at Miss Cs reports and had 
acted fairly regarding recovery. He felt it should pay the £200 offered regarding renewal, but 
wasnt minded to make it pay any additional sum.
Miss C remained unhappy. She felt her complaint hadnt been properly considered. Her 
complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans consideration. I felt minded to partially 
uphold her complaint  that AXA needed to do more given its accepted error regarding 
renewal. But regarding the allegations of poor work and its refusal to pursue recovery action, 
I felt it had acted fairly and reasonably. So I issued a provisional decision to explain my 
views to both parties. My provisional findings were:  
Disputed work
At the start of August 2021 Miss C shared with AXA her concerns about the work that had 
been completed at her property. Miss C provided photos to evidence her concerns. AXA 
reviewed matters and spoke to its contractor. AXA was advised that, in the contractors view, 
work had been completed in a like-for-like manner and to standard. As such, liability for the 
issues identified by Miss C was denied. AXA offered to have its surveyor attend the property 
and review the damage, but Miss C wasnt willing to agree to that  she felt the surveyor 
wasnt independent, and AXA wouldnt agree to paying for an independent assessment at 
that time. So it was left that Miss C had the option of letting it assess the work/damage, or 
submitting her own report on the issues for it to consider. I appreciate that Miss C will be 
disappointed with my view on this, but I dont think that was an unreasonable position for 
AXA to take. 
Essentially the situation was that Miss C said the contractor hadnt done some work, or 
some of the work it had done, had been done poorly. And the contractor was disputing that. 
AXAs surveyor is not independent  but would have been able to give an expert view on the 
situation. The next step then might have been for an independent to become involved. But 
AXA offering its own surveyors view in the first instance was reasonable. It was also 
reasonable for AXA to say that, as an alternative, Miss C could get her own report for it to 
consider. Whilst I know that Miss C has since obtained her own reports, she has confirmed 
she has not sent these to AXA. As AXA was happy to consider these, but has not been 
given the chance to do so, it would not be fair for me to do that. Miss C can send her reports 
to AXA, it can consider them and then provide its answer to her on the disputed 
repair/damage issues. If, to do that, AXA feels it needs to appoint a surveyor to view the 
work/damage alongside the reports, Miss C should cooperate with it to facilitate that.
Recovery
I know that, to Miss C, it is clear that the owner of the flat above hers negligently allowed the 
leak to occur and/or to continue, causing damage. I know that Miss C thinks that as that is so 
clearly the case, AXA was wrong to not pursue recovery of its own and her losses. AXAs 
surveyor initially felt there were no prospects for recovery, and later its solicitor also took that 
view. Having considered everything, I think AXA has acted and concluded on this aspect 
fairly and reasonably.
When Miss C made her claim she did ask about finding her neighbour liable for the loss, and 
she was told that AXA does have a recovery department. But that did not mean that AXA 
would seek to take action against Miss Cs neighbour in this circumstance  or even if it did, 
that AXA would be successful in doing so. And this service would only expect an insurer to 
pursue action like this if the prospects for success were felt to be good. That is because 
pursuing this type of action is time consuming and costly. 
Here Ive seen the emails Miss C provided between her and her neighbour  and they show 
the neighbour, regardless of what the tenants may have said, was contesting that she was 
negligently liable for the leak and damage caused. The neighbour said the leak was fixed the 
same day it was notified and only finishing off work needed doing around eight days later. 
I think that, in itself, shows that whether the neighbours negligence could have been 
successfully proven in court was far from clear. Any court claim would largely turn on her 
explanation against Miss Cs belief. Furthermore, I know that AXAs surveyors view was that even if it had taken eight days for the leak to be fully stopped, with some damage on-going in 
the meantime, a court might well have found that an acceptable time period. I see that AXAs 
solicitor was also concerned about proving negligence  and that for the recovery action to 
have any chance of success, Miss Cs full cooperation would be required. However, by this 
point, Miss C seemed unwilling to cooperate. I can understand AXAs view that its prospects 
for success werent good. Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable that AXA did not 
progress with taking recovery action against Miss Cs neighbour.
Renewal
Miss C is unhappy that AXA would not renew her policy. AXA ultimately said it felt it had 
acted unfairly in this respect and offered £200 compensation. That being the case it follows 
that AXA should reimburse any losses Miss C has had too. The compensation I think, fairly, 
and reasonably makes up for the distress and inconvenience Miss C was caused. But 
without knowing what cover Miss C took, and what the cost of it was, her financial loss on 
account of AXAs accepted error is not known. AXA has said the cost of cover with it would 
have been £347.86. Miss C should, therefore, submits details of her new policy to AXA, 
which show its cover, limits and cost. If the cover and limits are the same, but the price is 
more than what renewed cover with AXA would have cost, AXA will have to reimburse the 
difference, plus interest* from the date of renewal until settlement is made.  
Id add here that whilst many policies renew each year, some automatically, each renewal is 
a new contract of insurance  the fact that cover has been offered before is not a guarantee 
that cover will be offered again. Furthermore, whether or not to invite renewal is a 
commercial decision made by each insurer in each instance of cover. So AXA always had 
the option to decide what to do as Miss Cs policy approached its renewal date. But an 
insurer shouldnt look to end providing cover in circumstances where it knows the 
policyholder will struggle to find alternate cover  which includes where there is an open 
claim. And I note that here, when AXA first told Miss C it wasnt going to offer her renewal, 
her claim was still open. Which wouldve made it difficult for her to find other cover. And 
when her claim closed she only had a short while to find a new policy before her old policy 
expired. As I said, choosing whether or not to invite renewal is a decision for an insurer to 
make, and here AXAs said it made a mistake by not inviting Miss Cs renewal. So its fair 
and reasonable that it compensates her for both the financial and non-financial loss caused. 
Compensation
I know that this claim has been going on for a long time. My consideration of how AXA acted 
though begins with Miss C providing it with details of the problems shed found at her home. 
That isnt to say that Ive entirely disregarded what happened before and which led to this 
point  clearly I cant do that as the alleged poor work itself happened before my period of 
consideration, so I have to be aware of it. But for the upset caused by delay in the claim to 
the point of AXAs July final response, Miss C accepted £750 compensation in remedy. So 
I cant fairly go back over that and reconsider the issues or award.  
Following AXAs July final response, AXA was waiting for details from Miss C of the 
problems that she had. AXA couldnt reasonably investigate allegations of poor work until it 
knew what the concerns about that work were. It was given that detail at the beginning of 
August. AXA made enquiries about the work and by September it had already issued a final 
response advising that Miss C could accept its offer to assess the damage, or provide her 
own reports. As I said above, I think those options were fair and reasonable. It was also in 
September that AXA said it would appoint its solicitor to review the recovery options. I cant 
fault the speed with which AXA dealt with these concerns. And, following Miss C complaining 
to us about the poor work, AXA issued a further final response on that issue in March 2022, 
reaffirming its September position. I think that was also reasonable of it. So, with the 
exception of what Ive said above about renewal, I dont think AXA made errors or handled things poorly. As such Im currently satisfied that no further compensation is fairly or 
reasonably due. 
AXA said it had no comment to make in reply to my findings. Miss C provided comment 
against my provisional decision document.
Miss C added detail against the background I had set out (the same background I have 
included above here). She said it was AXAs repair handling company that had disputed 
things, rather than AXA itself  but no evidence to support their views had been provided. 
She said she had clearly explained and shown that poor work had been done. Miss C added 
that she did not receive any contact from AXA in March 2022 and she wouldnt have 
expected to receive anything as it had closed my account in September 2021. And she 
doesnt agree AXA couldnt pursue recovery action.
In respect of my findings about disputed work Miss C said:
AXA didnt review the matter itself.
It took an opportunity to deny liability based on what the contractor said even in spite of 
her evidence and argument to the contrary.
No evidence in support of the contractors view was provided.
AXA offered to check her property, not assess the work done.
Its unlikely AXAs surveyor could have given an expert view as during the claim thered 
been a constant lack of competence. 
AXA would not have been prepared to consider her report had she provided it.
Shed followed advice that to have a report done would waste time and money.
Regarding recovery Miss C said:
She provided lots of evidence showing negligence.
All necessary elements, from a legal point of view, necessary for showing negligence, 
were present.
AXA had overlooked evidence in this respect.
AXAs solicitors view is incorrect.
It was our Investigator, considering her previous complaint, who had advised her to 
make a further complaint  hed seemingly had no doubt AXA had acted unreasonably.
AXAs decision is unfair because it leaves her out of pocket and will affect her getting 
cover for a number of years.
 
Miss C made no comment against what Id said about renewal. Regarding compensation 
she said:
Shed asked for our assistance in December 2021 but had stated some concerns to us in 
August 2021  she expected everything to be carefully considered.
The poor work she had concerns about was evidenced and the compensation settlement 
agreed for her previous complaint was not linked to that.
She hadnt received guarantees shed been promised for work.
AXA should have independently reviewed her concerns  not referred them to those 
responsible for doing the work.
Shed reasonably asked for an independent inspection.
AXA did make three clear failings, two regarding recovery and one by not handling her 
claim with reasonable care and skill.
Miss C requested that I review matters thoroughly. She asked that I make further awards.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My background detail is a summary of what happened to bring the complaint to the decision 
stage of the process. It naturally cannot include or record everything. It also doesnt include 
any assessment of or findings by me on the details set out. So I thank Miss C for the further 
detail shes provided. And I can assure her that it is all detail of which I was aware and took 
into account when setting out my background summary in my provisional decision. Im 
satisfied by what I said in my background provisionally, and Ive re-produced it here as part 
of this final decision.
 
Disputed work
AXA, like many insurers, used a company to arrange and manage the repairs. It wasnt 
unreasonable that AXA reverted to it when Miss C made it aware of her concerns. And it was 
acting for AXA. Essentially Miss C had taken photos of what she felt was poor and/or non 
like-for-like work. AXAs agents considered those and gave their opinion. It wasnt 
unreasonable, in my view, for AXA to prefer that opinion to Miss Cs. 
I know things had gone wrong in the past for Miss C. But that did not mean that in this new 
phase of the claim, and in respect of different circumstances, things were going to go wrong 
again. AXAs final response confirmed that its decision on the poor work allegations could be 
reviewed further during a meeting at the property, or by Miss C submitting a report of her 
own. Either, in my view, would have enabled matters to progress, with the work at the heart 
of Miss Cs concerns being discussed further. They were, in my view, reasonable proposals 
for progressing the claim and the concerns about the work that had been raised. 
Recovery
I appreciate Miss C sharing her view on the legal position in this respect. But AXAs solicitors 
are experts in the likely outcome of cases  they have a good understanding of what the 
courts will look for and how, given the legal points in question, the courts are likely to 
respond. AXAs solicitors, having seen all the available evidence, clearly did not agree with 
Miss C that this was a clearcut situation, where the prospects for AXA being successful were 
likely good. I appreciate that Miss C had expected a different outcome when making this 
further complaint. But based on what Ive seen, I cant fault AXA for not pursuing recovery 
action in respect of this claim. 
Compensation
I appreciate that Miss C is viewing my section on compensation from her perspective of 
disagreeing with my findings about how AXA handled her claim, including its decision on 
recovery. I appreciate what she says about not having received guarantees for work and that 
the work done was poor. But what Ive seen, as Ive said, is that she presented evidence 
which was considered and refuted  she then received options for progressing her concerns 
in that respect. AXA also acted to review its decision in respect of recovery by appointing 
solicitors. All of which took place quite quickly. I think AXA acted fairly and reasonably. 
In Summary
I appreciate that Miss C feels my findings dont go far enough and that I should be making 
further awards. However, and whilst I can assure her that I have carefully considered 
matters, Im not minded to change my view on her complaint. As such my provisional 
findings, along with my additional comments set out here, now form the findings of this, my 
final decision.
Putting things right
I require AXA to pay Miss C:£200 compensation.
The difference between what it cost her for new cover and what it would have cost to 
renew with AXA, plus interest*. Where Miss C paid more for new cover which was the 
same as that AXA would have provided. This is subject to Miss C providing detail to AXA 
of her new cover. 
If Miss C takes more than 14 days after she accepts my final decision (if it remains the 
same and she does) to provide that detail, the application of interest will cease 
temporarily at the end of that 14 day period, resuming again once AXA receives the 
detail, ceasing finally when payment is made (if a payment is felt to be due).
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman