DRN-1896498
The complaint
Miss B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund five disputed transactions totalling 
£48.70. She is also unhappy with the information Lloyds gave her about the possible location 
of the store where the transactions took place.
What happened
Miss B says five transactions were made via chip and PIN from her account between April 
2019 and January 2020, at a store which Ill call shop B, which she didnt recognise. She 
contacted Lloyds about these transactions on 6 January 2020 when she got a full print out of 
her statement from Branch.
Miss B told Lloyds that she still had the card in her possession and didnt give her card or 
PIN to anyone to use. She also said she didnt have her PIN written down anywhere. 
Lloyds declined Miss Bs fraud claim. They said the transactions were carried out using Miss 
Bs card and PIN and as the card was still in her possession it couldnt confirm that fraud had 
taken place. Miss B was unhappy with this because Lloyds initially told her that the location 
of these transactions were around five miles from her house, and she said she hadnt been 
there. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she felt 
unable to conclude that these transactions were made fraudulently and was persuaded they 
were most likely authorised by Miss B. She highlighted that the original card and PIN were 
used, the spending was in line with Miss Bs normal account activity and a balance enquiry 
was also carried out before and after the transactions which fits Miss Bs usual pattern. 
The investigator also acknowledged that when Miss B called Lloyds on 6 January 2020, 
Lloyds referred to shop B. However, she confirmed that having searched herself she located 
it as a store, which Ill call shop R, near Miss Bs home. Miss B confirmed that this was her 
local shop.    
However, Miss B responded to the investigators opinion, re-emphasising that she was told 
the transactions were made five miles away from her home at shop B and she hasnt been 
there. She felt like Lloyds was calling her a liar. Miss B asked for the answer to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much of the same reasons.
Generally, Lloyds can hold Miss B liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that she made or authorised it herself.  Im satisfied from the 
banks technical evidence that Miss Bs genuine card and PIN were used to make the 
disputed transactions. The relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017).
But the relevant regulations arent on its own enough to enable Lloyds to hold her liable. So 
I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that 
Miss B consented to the transactions being made.
Despite what Miss B has said about the location of the shop being five miles away from her 
home, Im persuaded that she authorised the payments.  In coming to that view, Ive 
considered the following:
 Miss Bs card and PIN were used for all the transactions and balance enquiries  the PIN 
was entered correctly on the first attempt. For a fraudster to make these transactions, I 
would need to think about how they would have got Miss Bs card and PIN. Miss B says she 
didnt share her card or PIN with anyone, and her PIN wasnt written down. 
 Miss B still had the card in her possession ruling out the possibility that an unknown third 
party carried out the transaction by taking her card. Ive also thought about whether it could 
have been someone close to Miss B, either at her home or work. But Miss B has said she 
lives alone so it rules out someone in her home.  She has said she leaves her card in her 
handbag at work, but it would have meant that the unknown third party obtained the card to 
carry out each transaction and replaced it following the transaction. This would have 
happened over a period of nine months for all five transactions. And, they would have had to 
have seen her PIN in order to get it correct each time too. It isnt likely this could have 
happened without Miss B noticing.    
 Furthermore, balance enquiries were carried out before most of the transactions. Miss B 
also checks her balance frequently and the spending was in line with transactions she would 
usually make.  No further attempts were made for other transactions or cash withdrawals. 
The account activity isnt what Id expect to see from a fraudster. If a fraudster did get hold of 
Miss Bs card and PIN I would have expected them to spend the money as quickly as 
possible, but this wasnt the case. Also, after each transaction there was a balance enquiry 
and funds remaining, again I would expect a fraudster to make further transactions but there 
were no further attempts to use the card.  
Miss B maintains that Lloyds told her the shop was five miles away from her home and she 
hasnt been there. I note that Miss B is unhappy about the information she was given by 
Lloyds on the location of where the transactions took place. Having listened to the call 
recordings of the conversations between Miss B and Lloyds, Im satisfied that Lloyds 
explained this information was found online and it wasnt necessarily correct. They also 
explained that the shop name on the statement can appear different to the shop itself. While 
I understand this information may have been unhelpful for Miss B, I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Lloyds called her a liar or questioned her honesty when handling this fraud 
claim.
I understand that Miss B is unhappy with what she was told but it has no impact on whether 
the transactions were authorised by Miss B. For the reasons Ive already outlined, Im 
persuaded on balance that Miss B authorised the disputed transactions and she is liable for 
them.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman