DRN-3314150
The complaint
Miss R complains about the way in which Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
(which Ill refer to as AFS) handled a request to extend a consumer hire agreement. 
What happened
In May 2018 Miss R and AFS entered into a three-year consumer hire agreement for a new 
car. Under the agreement, Miss R was to pay £426.42 a month. 
In April 2021, shortly before the end of the hire term, Miss R contacted AFS to ask about 
extending it. AFS sent her a letter dated 12 April 2021, agreeing to an extension and setting 
out the terms which would apply. Miss R would have to pay a £60 administration fee and, 
from August 2021 until May 2022, the monthly payment would increase to £536.14. The 
letter, which was sent in duplicate, asked Miss R to sign and return one copy  in the next 
seven days
Miss R returned the paperwork on 14 June 2021. Initially, AFS did not accept it because it 
did not have a wet signature, but Miss R returned and it and AFS acknowledged receipt. 
AFS took a payment of £464.43 in July 2021, but that increased to £689.87 from August 
2021. 
Miss R contacted AFS to query the payment. AFS said that the April quote had expired and 
that a new extension quote had been generated in June 2021, in response to a request from 
Miss R. It acknowledged that it should have noticed that Miss R had returned the paperwork 
with the expired quote, and it offered her £150 in recognition of that. It remained open to 
Miss R to accept the extension on the revised terms, or she could return the car and end the 
agreement. Miss R did not accept the offer and referred the matter to this service.  
Our investigator thought that the offer which AFS had made was fair. He was satisfied that 
Miss R had asked for, and AFS had provided, extension paperwork in June 2021. Miss R 
had however returned the April paperwork and AFS had not noticed the error. Miss R did not 
accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R has commented that she does not understand why her monthly payment increased 
when she sought an extension of the original hire term. That was true of both the price 
quoted in April and in June 2021. Miss R says that an older car should not be more 
expensive. It was however for AFS to decide the terms on which it was prepared to offer 
both the original hire period and any extension of it, so I will not comment any further on that. 
If Miss R was not happy with the terms offered, she did not have to accept them. 
In my view, the letter of 12 April 2021 was clear that, to accept the offer of an extension, 
Miss R needed to return it, signed, within seven days. The offer would lapse after that time. 
By the time Miss R did return it, a revised offer had been made. 
It is of course unfortunate that Miss R did not notice that, by June 2021, the terms on which 
AFS was prepared to extend the hire period had changed. Its unfortunate too that AFS did 
not notice that Miss R had not returned the correct form; it thought she had returned the 
June offer. There was however no agreement to extend the hire period on the terms offered 
in April 2021. By the time the mistake  on both sides  had come to light, one higher 
payment had been taken.
I am satisfied however that the response of AFS to the error was reasonable and timely. It 
said that Miss R could return the car and end the agreement and offered Miss R £150. Given 
that both sides bear some responsibility here, I think that is reasonable. I simply leave it to 
her to decide whether she wishes to accept the offer  assuming it is still open for 
acceptance.   
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to take any further steps to resolve Miss Rs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman