DRN-4217048
The complaint
This complaint is about Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage with National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest). Mr H, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, has complained that NatWest 
reduced the mortgage term by one month, to 14 January 2023 instead of 14 February 2023.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, NatWest has accepted it made an 
error, so all I need to decide is what the bank needs to do to put this right.
Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr and Mrs H being identified. So for these reasons, I will instead concentrate 
on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint.
NatWest has explained that when Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage was transferred from an historic 
computer system to a new one in 2004 the mortgage term was accidentally reduced by one 
month. When Mr H drew this to the banks attention in 2022, the bank extended the term so 
it would end on 14 February 2023 rather than on 14 January 2023. NatWest also paid 
compensation of £200.
I note that the mortgage has now been paid off in full.
Mr H wasnt happy with NatWests response to the complaint and so raised it with our 
service, with the consent of Mrs H. An investigator looked at what had happened. She 
thought the action the bank had taken, and the £200 compensation, was sufficient to resolve 
the matter and didnt think NatWest needed to do anything more.
Mr H disagreed. He said that the length of time NatWest had taken to sort the issue out 
meant that he couldnt get a new fixed rate for the remainder of the mortgage term. He 
asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 6 November 2023 I issued a decision in which I explained that other matters Mr H had 
raised with us  fees added to the mortgage account, and not being able to have a new fixed 
rate product  were outside the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. So whilst I 
note Mr H has made detailed arguments about those issues, I am unable to comment on 
them.
The mortgage offer dated 7 February 2002 shows that the mortgage term was 21 years. The 
funds were released on 14 February 2002 when the mortgage completed and so it was due 
to run until 14 February 2023. NatWest has explained that, after mortgages became subject 
to regulation in October 2004, Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage was migrated to a new system 
which would administer the mortgage in line with the new regulations. However, the term 
was inadvertently reduced by one month, to 14 January 2023.
Im not persuaded that the banks error resulted in any other detriment to Mr and Mrs H. The 
previous fixed interest rate product expired on 30 November 2020. Mr H didnt contact 
NatWest to enquire about a new product until 16 November 2020. By that point the only 
products available had end dates of 31 March 2023, which was after the term was due to 
expire. 
In any event, the complaint about the incorrect end date wasnt raised until July 2022. Im 
satisfied, therefore, that even if the mortgage end date had been corrected when Mr H 
complained about it in July 2022, it would not have changed the outcome.
Im satisfied that NatWest corrected this error in October 2022 and paid Mr H £200 
compensation. Im satisfied that this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I do not 
require NatWest to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman