DRN-3064991
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) cancelled 
his car insurance policy mid-term and didnt give him a pro-rata refund for the remaining 
term. 
What happened
Mr P held a motor insurance policy with Watford, which commenced in November 2020 and 
was due to run until November 2021. In March 2021 the policy administrator wrote to Mr P to 
let him know that the policys underwriter (Watford) had decided to exercise its right to 
cancel the policy. 
The letter sent to Mr P didnt initially give a reason for cancellation, but it did let Mr P know 
that no refund of the premium was due. 
After some correspondence with the insurer it came to light that Mr P had been involved in 
an accident in February 2021, for which the third party had made a claim against Mr P. Upon 
investigation, Watford became aware that at the time of the accident Mr P was over the legal 
driving limit for alcohol. It advised Mr P that it wouldnt indemnify him for any claims that 
arose as a result of the incident, in line with its policy exclusions.
Watford said it had cancelled Mr Ps policy as a result of the incident in February 2021 which 
involved him drink driving. 
Mr P complained as he believed he shouldve at least received a pro-rata refund for the 
remaining portion of the policy  between March 2021 and November 2021. Watford didnt 
uphold the complaint, so Mr P referred it here. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt recommend it should be upheld. 
Although he noted that as Watford had paid out a claim against Mr Ps policy, it intended to 
pursue Mr P to recover these costs. And he explained that once the costs had been 
recovered, Watford would pay Mr P a partial refund from the date the policy was cancelled. 
Following the investigators view Mr P also raised the point that he hadnt been made aware 
of the particulars of the claim that had been made against him  until Watford had contacted 
him to recover its losses. And he also said that as the policy had been cancelled, then a 
claim shouldnt have been paid out against it. The investigator explained that although Mr 
Ps insurance policy had been cancelled, the insurer was still obliged to pay the claim to the 
third party, in order to protect them from falling foul of uninsured losses. 
Mr P didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome the investigator reached. Ill explain why. 
Theres no dispute over whether Watfords decision not to indemnify Mr P was fair. But for 
completeness, I should explain that the general exclusions of Mr Ps policy explain that any 
claim occurring at the time the policyholder is over the legal driving limit for alcohol is 
excluded from cover. So Im satisfied that Watford acted fairly here. 
So Ive now gone on to think about whether Watford acted fairly by cancelling the policy and 
refusing to pay Mr P a pro-rata refund for the remainder of it. 
The cancellation rights section of Mr Ps policy explains that the insurer reserves to the right 
to cancel the policy:
If You are in breach of any of the Terms, Exceptions, Exclusions, Conditions or 
Endorsements contained in or endorsed upon this Policy.
Following cancellation, the policy document also explains:
If an incident has arisen during the Period of Insurance, which has or will give rise to a claim 
to an incident, then no refund will be issued. 
Watford has given this service information that the third partys claim totals over £6,000. And 
as Ive said, Watford has contacted Mr P to recover this amount. It has explained that once 
the outstanding amount is settled, itll pay Mr P a pro-rata refund for the cancellation of the 
policy, as long as its able to settle the claim as nil outlay and no claims bonus allowed. 
As Watford is recovering its outlay from Mr P, I dont think it would be fair that it retains the 
full premium that Mr P paid for the year. I say this because this leaves Watford in a win-win 
situation  whereby the full years insurance has been paid, but its also not liable to pay out 
for a claim, nor has it provided cover for the full year. So the resolution proposed by Watford, 
that Ive explained above, is fair. So it should calculate the amount Mr P owes by deducting 
a pro-rata refund for the time that Mr Ps vehicle wasnt on cover, from cancellation on 9 
March 2021 to 10 November 2021.
I note that Mr P has questioned why Watford has paid out the other partys claim before he 
has been able to check the particulars of the claim, and also because the policy has been 
cancelled. But as our investigator explained, this relates to a piece of legislation for insurers 
called Article 75. An Article 75 insurer is an insurer who at the time of the accident giving rise 
to the liability was providing any insurance in respect of the vehicle (other than by reason of 
a driving other vehicle clause) from which the liability arose.
Effectively this means that an Article 75 insurer is obliged to pay out to the third party making 
the claim, if the car was insured on the date of the event linked to the claim, even if the claim 
wouldnt otherwise have been covered. An example of this being for an exclusion like drink 
driving, as is the case in Mr Ps situation. This is to prevent the third party from losing out by 
their claim not being covered as a result of a policy cancellation, again, as Ive already 
mentioned. So I dont think Watford has acted unfairly by paying the claim, and I also dont 
think its unreasonable that Watford settled the claim without Mr P having approved the costs 
first. Im sorry to disappoint Mr P and Id like to reassure him that Ive thought about everything 
hes said carefully. But having done so Im not upholding this complaint, because I believe it 
was a miscommunication that led Mr P to believe he wouldnt receive a pro-rata refund for 
the cancellation of his policy. That said, Id still expect Watford to ensure that the claim is 
settled correctly following repayment from Mr P. Watford should continue to issue a partial 
refund if the claim is settled in line with what it requires, which it should explain clearly to Mr 
P.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against Watford Insurance 
Company Europe Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman