DRN-3432543
The complaint
Mr I has complained about the way a claim for fire damage has been handled by the insurer
Aviva Insurance Limited. Mr I held his contents insurance policy with Aviva.
All reference to the insurer Aviva in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
In 2017 Mr Is home was damaged by fire and he made a claim for the contents to his
insurer, Aviva. Mr I held a separate insurance policy for the building with a different insurer.
He made a claim to that insurer for the building damage.
Mr I had made a previous claim for fire damage in 1999 and received a cash settlement for
the repair works.
In 2020 Mr I complained to Aviva. He was unhappy with the length of time it was taking to
deal with the claim and the level of claim costs of over £100,000 that had been accrued
which Aviva said it would deduct from the contents sum insured amount of £129,613. Mr I
had no idea that Aviva would deduct the claim costs from the contents sum insured. He was
very concerned that the claim costs were such that he would not receive a fair settlement for
his contents.
In January 2021 Aviva said it was sorry for the time it was taking to deal with the claim and
paid Mr I £250 compensation. However, it said that the delays were due to issues with the
buildings insurer, Mr I, the previous claim and the pandemic.
In March 2021 Mr I asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator thought Aviva had
acted reasonably. She thought the delays were outside of Avivas control. She explained that
the claim costs accrued had been set out by the claims handling team for assessment,
storage, materials, packing and cleaning involved in Mr Is claim. She thought Aviva had
tried to mitigate some of the storage costs  it had wanted Mr I to accept the return of the
items in storage as the buildings work hadnt started. Aviva had agreed with the buildings
insurer for them to take over storage costs from October 2020.
Aviva said Mr I had underinsured the contents of his home. Despite this, Aviva said it would
settle his claim by way of a cash settlement for the sum insured amount minus the claim
costs. This meant Avivas cash settlement offer was £43,044.31. It said Mr I hadnt yet
provided a full list of the contents he wished to claim for  but that this clearly far exceeded
the sum insured limit under the policy.
Mr I didnt accept the cash settlement offer Aviva made and didnt agree with the
Investigators findings. In summary he said that Aviva is in part responsible for the delay. He
said Aviva hadnt taken into account the impact of the pandemic when considering his claim.
He said the settlement offer is inadequate and prices for everything have gone up since
2017, so the offer should be at least based on todays prices. Mr I was unhappy with the 
costs the claims handling agent has charged under the claim as he believes they are 
excessive.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 March 2022. I thought Mr Is complaint should be 
upheld. I didnt think it fair for Aviva to deduct associated claim costs from the contents Sum 
Insured amount. I didnt think it was explained in the policy wording that Aviva would do this. 
I thought it reasonable for an insurer to factor in claim costs into the premium price it sets for 
the policy cover. 
Both parties replied to my provisional decision. Mr I says that despite several requests, Aviva 
has failed to provide him with lists of everything removed from his home and the items that 
were either stored, cleaned, or declared beyond economical repair.
Mr I says he didnt receive £250 compensation from Aviva which was set out in their final 
response to his complaint in January 2021. 
Aviva said it was clearly necessary to restore fire damaged contents rather than replace 
them, which would be more costly. So it said these sums must surely therefore be deducted 
from the overall sum Insured. 
In response, I asked Aviva to provide a breakdown of the items that were cleaned and/or 
restored rather than replaced, the costs and whether the items were restored successfully, 
with the amounts it would have otherwise cost to replace the items. 
Aviva hasnt provided a reply. As the date has passed for Aviva to respond, the case has 
been passed back to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent received any new information which changes my mind, my final decision is 
along the same lines as my provisional decision. 
I dont intend to repeat all of the issues that both parties have raised in my decision which
the Investigator has set out in two sets of findings to both parties on 20 December 2021 and
25 January 2022. But I can assure both parties that I have carefully considered all of the
points raised. My decision focuses on the crux of Mr Is complaint and whether Aviva as the
insurer for the contents claim has acted reasonably and in line with the policy.
Mr I believes that Aviva is at least partly responsible for a delay of two years at the beginning
of his claim from 2017. He says if Aviva hadnt been in dispute with the buildings insurer over
the claim, it would have been settled before the pandemic impacted in 2020.
I can only look at the actions of Aviva in my decision. As the insurer for the buildings claim is
separate, I cannot consider their actions. This means its very difficult for me to make a
finding that Aviva contributed to a delay  as I cannot independently consider the actions of
the buildings insurer and their communications with Aviva.
That doesnt mean that I dont agree with Mr I that this length of time is significant. I think it
is. I cant hold Aviva responsible as the delays may have been down to the building insurer.
However, I also think its worth mentioning that Mr I was insured for both buildings and
contents and had two insurers that he could reasonably expect to do everything they could
to deal with and resolve his claim. But I dont have enough to say that Aviva contributed toissues outside of its control. I can see that until the building works part of the claim was
completed  which as at January 2022  was still not complete  some of the contents of Mr
Is home were still either in storage or to be cleaned, repaired or replaced.
Aviva says it has utilised an allowance which would have otherwise been used for alternative
accommodation to reduce the costs of storage for some of Mr Is contents by 75%. Aviva
says that Mr I has a significant amount of contents and the amount removed from his home
was over 20 pallets - with a significant amount of contents still remaining. This led to
substantial storage costs which  as the time passed for the buildings claim to be dealt with
 led to those costs increasing and this impacted on the sum insured limit for Mr Is policy.
Aviva has provided details of the costs it has paid under the claim so far and  having
reduced the storage costs under the claim - leaves a remaining sum of £43,044.31 from a
sum insured limit of £129,613. The claim costs have been broken down by Aviva as follows:
Laundry - £6,169.43
Contents cleaning - £12,237.40
Packing - £9,370.22
Removals - £6,626.68
Inspection/Site meetings - £735.22
Materials - £2,964.50
Remaining works - £20,417.28
French polishers call out charge - £55
VAT - £18,828.96
Reduced storage fee costs £8,535.50
Final storage fee - £628.50
Mr I says it was two years before Aviva told him that the claim costs were being deducted
from the contents sum insured amount and he was shocked to find this out so late into the
claim.
Ive looked at what Avivas policy says about how it will deal with a claim for contents. I know
Mr I doesnt hold his building insurance cover with Aviva. But Ive also looked at  by way of
comparison  how Aviva explains how it will deal with a buildings claim.
Mr Is policy with Aviva says the following:
Amount Insured
The amount insured as shown on the schedule, together with any adjustments for
index-linking where applicable, is the maximum amount payable (subject to any
specific limits detailed in the policy booklet) for all claims arising out of any one
incident and continues in full following payment of any claim.
The amount insured under buildings must be adequate to rebuild your buildings as
new including the cost of professional fees, site clearance costs and statutory costs.
The amount insured under contents and personal belongings (including valuables)
must be adequate to replace all of the insured items, taking into account the basis of
settlement described on page 17.
Later under the policy it reads:
9. Adequacy of Amounts InsuredYou must ensure that the amounts insured are maintained at an adequate level at all
times.
The amount insured for buildings should be sufficient to rebuild your home as new,
including the cost of professional fees, clearance costs and statutory costs.
In all other cases the amount insured should be sufficient to replace all of the insured
items taking into account the basis of settlement shown on pages 9 and 17.
Ive checked the basis of settlement under the policy and Aviva doesnt provide information
to show a customer that the sum insured for contents will reduce to take into account claim
costs. Whereas  as a comparison  what the amount insured for buildings will take into
account is clearly explained.
Ive also checked the General Conditions and General Exclusions. I cannot find any
information there to assist in explaining that the amounts insured for contents must be
anything other than adequate to replace all of the insured items.
As Ive said, I know Mr I doesnt hold buildings insurance cover with Aviva. But the policy
wording is clear as to what the Buildings sum insured amount includes. I dont find however
that there is any reference to claim costs being deducted from the contents sum insured.
The policy says that the amount a customer quotes  which Aviva will provide cover for  is
the amount it will cost to replace the items.
I dont think any reasonable consumer would expect for the costs of managing the claim
such as storage, site clearing, cleaning, or professional fees to be deducted from the sum
insured for contents when applying for a policy with Aviva. I dont know how Mr I  or any
reasonable consumer  would expect to know that the contents sum insured amount it
provides as to the value of their contents could be a significantly different sum on pay-out
depending on the complexity or length of time taken to settle the claim.
Avivas costs are not what the policy insures and not a question Aviva asks policyholders like
Mr I to consider when noting the contents sum insured. It therefore follows that I dont think it
fair or reasonable for Aviva to deduct such claim costs from the contents sum insured. I think
that in the absence of an explanation under the policy, any reasonable consumer would
assume that the price of the insurance which Aviva sets takes into account the costs of
dealing with the claim  unless  as Aviva did with the buildings section of cover  explain
what that will include.
However, where the insurer can show that a consumer has caused some of the further
delays within a claim  which has led to increased costs for storage  then this service
wouldnt consider it unreasonable for an insurer to look to recover such costs.
But  I have to bear in mind that when Aviva wanted Mr I to take back items from storage in
August 2020 this was during the pandemic. And Mr I has explained that he was shielding at
the time as he was clinically vulnerable. He said electrical rewiring was in the process of
being completed, so it was counter-productive to take back items that had been removed for
cleaning.
Understandably I think these factors contributed to the delay in settling his claim. I dont think
its reasonable for Aviva to consider deducting ongoing storage charges for the period it
wanted Mr I to accept the return of the items. Aviva negotiated with the buildings insurer to
take over the full costs of storage from October 2020. I cannot tell whether this is something
Aviva could or should have negotiated sooner than it did. And under this claim, it isnt clear
as to whether Aviva looked to regulate the escalating costs accruing by their agent.But in the absence of clear wording under the policy as to how the contents sum insured will
operate when a claim is made, I dont think its reasonable for Aviva to deduct its claim costs
from Mr Is contents claim. Insurers set a premium to provide cover and this should absorb
any associated costs in dealing with a claim unless otherwise clearly explained.
I understand Aviva believes Mr I has underinsured the contents of his claim. But Aviva has
been dealing with Mr Is claim for contents since 2017 and I dont think it fair or reasonable to
now cite this as a possible reason not to meet Mr Is claim in line with the policy terms.
Mr I is unhappy that Aviva wont cover the costs for specialist valuations for some of his
items such as antiques. In my provisional decision I said I didnt think his policy provides 
cover for such valuations. It may be that a more suitable specialist insurance policy would 
better meet Mr Is needs. As he bought the policy with Aviva through a broker, he may wish 
to discuss his needs with them for future insurance.
In response, Mr I says he assumes he will be allowed to obtain valuations on antique items 
and incorporate them into his claim. If Mr I wishes to obtain such specialist valuations at his 
own cost for such contents, I think its reasonable for Aviva to take these into account under 
his contents claim.
This claim is clearly a complex one. There was previous unrepaired damage from an earlier
claim. There are two insurers involved in rectification works for the building and contents. I
appreciate that Mr Is property has a substantial amount of contents.
However, I think Avivas handling of the claim hasnt been reasonable and it hasnt treated
Mr I fairly. So in line with the policy, my recommendations are as set out below.
Mr I has raised concerns as to the items that have been packed as he believes some may
have been damaged and/or stolen. Subject to Mr I receiving clear itemised packing lists of
such items, if Mr I remains unhappy he will need to raise a new complaint with Aviva about
these issues.
In my provisional decision I said Aviva paid Mr I £250 compensation when it replied to his 
complaint for the delay it had caused during the claim. Mr I says he hasnt received this 
compensation so I have amended my recommendations to reflect this. 
I think the compensation award  along with my other recommendations  is
enough to put things right so far under Mr Is claim up to and including Avivas final response
in January 2021.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
remove the associated claim costs from the contents sum insured amount under 
Mr Is policy and deal with his claim under the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy.
pay Mr I £250 compensation if it hasnt already paid it for the distress and 
inconvenience its delay caused him. 
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr I accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr I how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr I a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman