DRN-2902388
The complaint
Miss P complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE treated her unfairly when she made a 
claim for a faulty boiler on her home emergency policy.
Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents. 
What happened
Miss P had home emergency insurance with Great Lakes, which covered repairs to the back 
boiler in her home. In February 2021, Miss P reported a problem with the back boiler, which 
caused a loss of heating and hot water. Great Lakes sent an engineer out, he said he didnt 
deal with back boilers. When speaking to Miss P shortly after, Great Lakes said that repairs 
to the back boiler werent covered at all by the terms of the policy (although its since 
acknowledged this advice was wrong). 
Miss P says having no heating and hot water for several days caused her extreme 
difficulties. And she said she had no choice but to stay with family in unsuitable living 
arrangements until her boiler could be repaired. This made her existing medical conditions 
worse. She also had to take out an alternative insurance policy, which did include 
emergency boiler repairs. This cost her £381 and didnt include the same extent of cover as 
her Great Lakes policy. 
Miss P later complained to Great Lakes and it upheld her complaint. It apologised for the 
misinformation given to its contractor (who hadnt been told that the problem was with a back 
boiler). 
Miss P complained to us. One of our investigators looked into things and noted Great Lakes 
had since offered to reimburse Miss P the cost of the alternative policy shed taken out 
(£381) and pay her compensation of £140, to reflect the impact of being without heating and 
hot water for three days. But the investigator didnt think Great Lakes offer went far enough. 
She didnt think Great Lakes needed to reimburse the cost of Miss Ps policy with it as 
Miss P thought it should. She pointed out that the policy premium would still have been 
payable had Great Lakes accepted a valid claim under the terms of the policy. But the 
investigator acknowledged that Miss P neednt have taken out another policy if Great Lakes 
had correctly dealt with her claim. So, she said Great Lakes should reimburse Miss P the 
£381 cost of the new policy. And she thought Great Lakes should compensate Miss P £550 
to fully reflect the extent of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Great Lakes didnt agree and put forward a number of arguments to challenge the 
investigators assessment. It said there would have been some pain and suffering to Miss P 
even if the boiler had been repaired shortly after the engineer went out. And it didnt think it 
was fair to attribute all of the impact on Miss P to its actions. It accepted it could and should 
have offered Miss P alternative accommodation for one night in line with the relevant section 
of the policy. But it said that would only have been equivalent to £150 which it felt should be 
paid now by way of compensation. And it thought any remaining compensation should be 
reduced to £100 (making £250 in total), particularly as Miss P hadnt made it aware of any 
existing medical conditions despite being asked about them. Taking account of these things, 
Great Lakes thought the total amount payable to Miss P should be £631 (£250 
compensation+ £381 to reimburse the cost of another policy). 
As Great Lakes didnt accept the investigators assessment and asked for an Ombudsmans 
decision, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint.
I appreciate that Great Lakes now accepts it got things wrong by saying that repairs to 
Miss Ps back boiler werent covered by the terms of her policy. But I dont think its 
compensation offer and arguments fully and fairly recognise the extent of the impact its 
mistakes had on Miss P. Ill explain why.
Great Lakes says its unfair to attribute all of the impact on Miss P to its actions. Not least 
because it says there was always going to be some level of inconvenience even if things had 
gone smoothly. I accept that. But things didnt go smoothly, and this appears to have had 
quite an impact on Miss P. Firstly, she was faced with the disappointment of being told by 
the engineer that he didnt repair back boilers, despite her specifically telling Great Lakes 
that the problem concerned a back boiler. Great Lakes now accepts it didnt pass the correct 
information on when instructing an engineer. And, if it had sent the correct instructions to an 
appropriate engineer, its likely Miss Ps boiler would have been repaired without any further 
delay or upset. 
Then, Great Lakes added to Miss Ps disappointment by (incorrectly) telling her the boiler 
repairs werent covered by her policy at all. In these circumstances and as it happened in the 
depths of winter, I can appreciate why Miss P felt she had little choice, but to find another 
policy that would cover her boiler repairs. This could have been avoided if Great Lakes had 
correctly accepted the claim. So, to put things right, its fair that Great Lakes reimburses 
Miss P the £381 she spent on this policy  a policy that she didnt need.
But I think the impact went far beyond that. Miss Ps also described the effect on her existing 
health conditions and has provided evidence of those conditions. I accept Miss Ps evidence 
and can see why, when faced with the prospect of having no heating and hot water for 
several days, Miss P thought it better for her and her family to stay with a relative. Even 
though their temporary living arrangements were far from ideal. Great Lakes thinks that any 
compensation paid to Miss P should be reduced because she hadnt previously mentioned 
her health conditions  despite being asked. Im not persuaded by that argument. Had 
Great Lakes engineer repaired Miss Ps boiler as her policy terms allowed, there would have 
been little need for her to even mention her health conditions. I say that because Miss P may 
have been able to stay at home, which would likely have significantly reduced the 
inconvenience she faced. But thats not what happened. Instead Great Lakes told Miss P 
she wasn't covered at all. And given it said her policy didn't cover the boiler repairs, that 
would have been the case regardless of whether or not Great Lakes knew about her health 
conditions. So, I don't think she needed to tell Great Lakes about her conditions at the time. 
But, in order to assess the impact of Great Lakes mistakes on her, I think its reasonable for 
Miss P to mention the effect on her health conditions now. And I think its equally reasonable 
to expect Great Lakes to take account of that when compensating her. 
Great Lakes said that it could and should have offered Miss P one nights alternative 
accommodation, up to the relevant policy limit of £150. And it thinks that amount should be 
paid as part of any compensation awarded. I dont agree. When deciding whether to award 
compensation and if so how much, I think about the impact a business mistakes have had 
on the consumer concerned. That includes considering the extent of the distress and 
inconvenience the consumer has actually suffered. So, my awards for compensation aren't  
limited to what a consumer might have received had a business done what it was supposed 
to do. In this case Miss P was unnecessarily left without heating or hot water in the depths of 
winter. She was in an incredibly difficult situation that was making her health conditions 
worse than they would otherwise have been. As a result, she and her family had to spend 
time in unsuitable and cramped accommodation. And Miss Ps painted a clear picture of how 
distressing she found this situation. All of that could have been avoided if Great Lakes 
provided the service Miss Ps policy entitled her to from the outset. But it didn't and Miss P 
suffered as a result.  
Taking account of everything Ive said above, I think a compensation payment of £550 is 
reasonable in these particular circumstances. Im satisfied that such a payment would fully 
and fairly reflect the extent of the distress and inconvenience Miss P suffered. So, thats the 
amount that Great Lakes now needs to pay Miss P in addition to the £381 it cost her to take 
out a new home emergency policy to cover her boiler repairs. 
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Great Lakes Insurance SE now needs to pay Miss P £550 
compensation for the reasons Ive set out above. It should also reimburse her £381 for the 
cost of taking out another home emergency policy  if it hasnt already done so. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman