DRN-1692856
Complaint
Mr W has complained that Advancis Limited (Buddy Loans) irresponsibly provided him with 
an unaffordable guarantor loan. He has said that if Buddy Loans had carried out proper 
checks it would have seen that he had defaults, he was in financial difficulty and that he was 
in a debt management plan. 
Background
Buddy Loans provided Mr W with a guarantor loan in February 2018. The loan was for 
£2,250 and it was due to be repaid over 36 months. The monthly payments were around 
£110. The total amount to be repaid was £3,976.71.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ws complaint. She told Buddy Loans that the checks it 
carried out before providing Mr W with this loan werent reasonable and proportionate and if 
such checks had been carried out it would have seen that it Mr W wasnt in a position to 
sustainably make the repayments. 
So she thought that Buddy Loans shouldnt have provided Mr W with this loan and upheld 
the complaint. Buddy Loans disagreed with our adjudicators assessment and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. So the complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - 
on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law, I think 
there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint. 
These two overarching questions are:
Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr W would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
 
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr W wouldve been able to do 
so?
 
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Buddy Loans didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr W and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
The rules and regulations at the time Buddy Loans lent to Mr W required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay his loan in a 
sustainable manner. Buddy Loans was required to carry out this borrower focused 
assessment in addition to a similar one on the guarantor. This assessment is sometimes 
referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Buddy Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr W. In 
practice this meant that Buddy Loans had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr W undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for Buddy Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr W. The 
existence of a guarantee and the potential for Buddy Loans to pursue the guarantor instead 
of Mr W, for the loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit 
is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
 
Were Buddy Loans checks reasonable and proportionate?Buddy Loans says it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mr W. And     
Mr W confirmed he received £1960 a month, had living expenses of £936 and would have 
credit commitments of £293. Taking all of this into account Mr W would be left with £731.22 
once all of his living costs and credit commitments were deducted from his income. Buddy 
Loans also says that it carried out a credit check on Mr W which confirmed his bank account 
did receive monthly credits commensurate to the income declared.  
Ive carefully thought about what Buddy Loans has said. But simply obtaining information 
from and/or about a borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have carried out a 
borrower focused assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan. 
The credit check Buddy Loans carried out showed that Mr W was at 156% of the credit limits 
on his revolving credit accounts. The credit check also showed that Mr W had defaulted on 
accounts. Indeed, Buddy Loans final response says that it was aware Mr W had defaulted 
on ten separate accounts in 2017. There is also a section on the credit search entitled 
Impaired Credit History. And, in this section, there a number of statements with Yes or No 
responses next to them to indicate whether any of them apply to Mr W. There are Yes 
answers to the an impaired credit history being detected and loan accounts with payments 
that are, at least, three months late having been found.    
So I think its fair to say that Buddy Loans would have been aware that Mr W had had 
previous difficulties with credit. And, in these circumstances, I dont think that it enough here 
as it ought fairly and reasonably to have taken steps to verify Mr Ws monthly expenditure. 
I say this while especially mindful of the fact that the rules themselves provide guidance on 
the proportionality of affordability/creditworthiness assessments. The rules and guidance 
suggest that the risk of any credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation. 
This was an expensive loan and the credit search carried out on Mr W showed he wasnt in 
the healthiest financial position.  
I accept that Buddy Loans might have been prepared to accept this credit risk because the 
existence of Mr Ws guarantor might have given it more confidence that the payments would 
be made, But I dont think that the existence of the guarantor, on its own, meant that Mr W 
himself would be able to sustainably make the payments given what the credit file showed.
Indeed I also think that it might also be helpful for me to explain that a less detailed 
affordability assessment, without the need for verification, is only really likely to be fair, 
reasonable and proportionate in circumstances where the amount to be repaid is relatively 
small, the consumers financial situation is stable and they will be indebted for a relatively 
short period. 
But, in circumstances  such as here - where a customers finances are showing telling 
signs of possible strain and distress, they are expected to maintain payments for a longer 
period of time and there is the potential that a guarantor will be required to step in and make 
payments, I think its far more likely that any affordability assessment would need to be more 
detailed and contain a greater degree of verification, in order for it to be fair, reasonable and 
proportionate. 
In my view, bearing in mind the term of the loan, the cost of the credit, what Buddy Loans 
had seen or ought to have seen in the information gathered and the potential implications for 
the guarantor, Buddy Loans needed to get a thorough understanding of Mr Ws financial 
position in order to properly assess whether hed be able to sustainably make the loan 
payments he was being asked to commit to. This is especially the case as Mr W having a 
declared disposable income of over £700 didnt tally with what was showing on his credit file.So as well as asking Mr W about the details of his income and expenditure, I think that   
Buddy Loans needed to verify what it was being told by Mr W, rather than relying on what   
Mr W declared for his monthly expenditure. It could have done this by asking for information 
such as bank statements or copies of bills. And when it obtained this information it needed to 
properly scrutinise it and ensure that Mr W did have enough funds to be able to make the 
payments.
As theres no evidence that Buddy Loans did properly scrutinise the information provided, or 
that it asked Mr W to provide documentary evidence to support the expenditure declarations 
made, I find that it didnt complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks 
before providing Mr W with this loan.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Buddy Loans that Mr W would 
have been unable to sustainably repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Buddy Loans that Mr W wouldve been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan. 
Mr W has now provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he 
applied for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information Mr W has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Buddy Loans mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Buddy Loans showing what this information would 
have shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable 
weight on it as an indication of what Mr Ws financial circumstances were more likely than 
not to have been at the time.
As Ive already explained, Buddy Loans was required to establish whether Mr W could 
sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their 
payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they 
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered the information Mr W has provided in light of all of this. The 
information Ive been provided with shows Mr W was gambling significant sums of money. In 
truth, this is more likely than not the reason for the difficulties with previous credit shown on 
his credit file. In any event, whether or not this is the case, Mr Ws statements suggest to me 
that his ability to repay his loan would in large part come down to his success as a gambler. 
And I dont think that this was conducive to him being able to sustainably repay this loan.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr W would not have been able to make the 
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted Buddy Loans to the fact that Mr W would not be able to sustainably make 
the repayments to this loan. Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Buddy Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in 
some other way.  
So I find that Buddy Loans didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in some other 
way.  
Conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought about the two overarching questions, set out on page 
one of this decision, I find that:
Buddy Loans didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr W to 
satisfy itself that he was able to repay his loan; 
 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown 
Mr W was unable to sustainably make the repayments for this loan;
 
Buddy Loans didnt also act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in some 
other way.
 
The above findings leave me concluding that Buddy Loans unfairly and unreasonably 
provided Mr W with a guarantor loan in February 2018.
Did Mr W lose out as a result of Buddy Loans unfairly and unreasonably providing him with 
his guarantor loan?
I think that this loan had the effect of unfairly increasing Mr Ws indebtedness as it led to him 
being provided with expensive credit for a significant sum. This loan was expensive and the 
monthly payment, which also included interest and charges, took up a significant proportion 
of Mr Ws income at a time where he was already struggling to make ends meet. So I find 
that Mr W did suffer adverse consequences and as a result lost out because Buddy Loans 
unfairly provided him with this loan.
Fair compensation  what Buddy Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr W
Ive carefully thought about what Buddy Loans should do to put things right in this case. 
Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business  
in so far as is reasonably practicable  to put the consumer in the position they would be in 
now if that wrong hadnt taken place. In essence, in this case, this would mean Buddy Loans 
putting Mr W in the position hed now be in if she hadnt been given this loan.
But when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward. Mr W 
was given the loan in question and he used the funds. So, in these circumstances, I cant 
undo whats already been done. And its simply not possible to put Mr W back in the position 
she would be in if she hadnt been given this loan in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to explain the 
reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Buddy Loans to put things right in 
the following way.interest and charges on the loans
As Ive explained, Buddy Loans lending to Mr W, in these circumstances, left him in a 
position where his debt was increasing. And Mr W kept having to find additional funds to pay 
the monthly payments on his Buddy Loans loan. In reality its the interest and on this loan 
that led to Mr Ws indebtedness increasing and his financial position worsening. 
So to start with Buddy Loans should refund any interest and charges that has Mr W paid on 
this loan. It should do this by removing all of the interest applied to the loan from the outset. 
The payments Mr W has made should then be deducted from the new starting balance of 
£2250. If and when the payments Mr W has already made to this loan are enough to have 
cleared the amount he was lent anything over this amount should be treated as an 
overpayment. These overpayments, should there be any, should be refunded to Mr W.  
Mr W will also have lost the use of the funds he will have used to make any overpayments 
that Buddy Loans need to refund to him. As Mr W will have lost the use of these funds, 
I think he should be compensated if she made any interest payments. 
We normally ask a business to pay 8% simple interest where a consumer hasnt had the use 
of funds because its actions resulted in something having gone wrong. Bearing in mind my 
conclusions in the paragraph above, I see no reason to depart from our usual approach here 
and I think awarding 8% per year simple interest, on overpayments made (from the date they 
were made), is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Mr Ws credit file
Generally speaking, Id expect a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result of the interest and charges on the loans they shouldnt have 
been given. After all its the interest and charges that the consumer is being refunded and 
the expectation is they will have repaid, or they should repay what they owe.
So I think that Buddy Loans should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws 
credit file as a result of the interest and charges on this loan, as Mr W wasnt in a position to 
sustainably repay this loan and he shouldnt have had to pay those interest and charges in 
the first place.
All of this means that I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of         
Mr Ws complaint for Buddy Loans to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr W has made should be deducted from the new starting balance. 
Buddy Loans should treat any payments made once the new starting balance 
has been cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be 
refunded to Mr W;
 
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they 
were made by Mr W to the date of settlement;
 
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file as a result of 
this loan.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to take off tax from this interest. Buddy 
Loans must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Advancis Limited should put 
things right for Mr W in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman