DRN-3405242
The complaint
Mr T says Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (Home Retail Group), trading as 
Argos Financial Services, irresponsibly lent to him. He has requested that the interest and 
late payment charges he paid on his account be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about an account provided by Home Retail Group to Mr T. The account 
was opened in October 2010 with Mr T being given an initial credit limit of £1200. The 
credit limit  was increased three times, first to £1800 in July 2011, to £2700 in September 
2012 and then to £3000 in June 2019. 
The account fell into arrears in September 2018 and it was then frozen. 
Mr T says that Home Retail Group shouldnt have allowed him to open an account given 
that he had defaults with other creditors. Hes also unhappy that it increased his credit 
limits and says by doing so it worsened his financial position. 
Our adjudicator thought that Home Retail Group ought to have realised that he wasnt in 
a position to sustainably repay any further credit on either account from August 2013. 
But having received further details about the account from Home Retail Group, our 
adjudicator thought that point was likely reached in July 2011. Home Retail Group has 
disagreed, saying it no longer has access to information about the checks on the 
account it would have carried out at that time and that based on the information 
available appropriate checks were carried out. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Home Retail Group needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr T could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this 
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Home Retail Group should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator has set out in some detail why he thought Home Retail Group shouldnt 
have provided Mr T with any additional credit from July 2011 onwards. Home Retail Group 
didnt agree with what our adjudicator said. 
Nonetheless, Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Home Retail Groups lending 
history with Mr T, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Home Retail Group 
should reasonably have seen that further lending was likely unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. If so, that would mean Home Retail Group should have realised that it shouldnt 
have continued increasing Mr Ts credit limit on his account.
Having reviewed the complaint in detail, Ive decided to partially uphold this complaint and 
on the same basis as our adjudicator. I will explain why. 
Home Retail Group says that when Mr T opened his account checks were carried out to see 
if there were signs of financial difficulties and there were no affordability or risk concerns. 
From the bank statements Mr T sent us, I dont think there is enough to suggest that it would 
have been unreasonable for Home Retail Group to have approved the account opening. I 
dont know if Home Retail Group asked Mr T about his income at the time, which is 
something that may have helped it begin to build a picture of Mr Ts overall financial 
circumstances. But from what Ive seen, if it had theres not enough for me to say that the 
account wouldnt have been approved.
Ive seen that at the time that Mr Ts credit limit was increased to £1800 in July 2011 Mr T 
had been consistently using a significant part of his £1000 bank overdraft facility, often 
taking it almost up to the maximum limit. At the same time Ive seen his monthly income was 
averaging at around about £1200. And when Mr Ts account went into credit it was only for 
short periods, typically after hed been paid. So, taking this into consideration the funds Mr T 
had coming in, it seems to me likely that each month Mr T was left with no or very little 
disposable income whilst incurring overdraft interest charges most of the time. At the same 
time he was having to find funds meet his essential living and housing expenses, including 
his mortgage. I therefore think that had Home Retail Group carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks at this point in time they likely would have shown or suggested Mr T 
was in no position to take on extra borrowing. 
It follows that, having looked at what we know about Mr Ts financial situation and his 
lending history with Home Retail Group and elsewhere, Im in agreement with our adjudicator that by July 2011, when his credit limit was increased to £1800, Home Retail 
Group should reasonably have seen that any further lending was likely to be 
unaffordable, or otherwise harmful for Mr T. 
So I think that Mr T lost out because Home Retail Group increased his credit limit in 
July 2011. The result of that was that Mr Ts financial situation worsened as he increased 
his borrowing. I therefore think Home Retail Group ought to have realised that there was 
a significant risk that increasing Mr Ts credit limit in these circumstances would lead to 
his indebtedness increasing unsustainably, worsening his already difficult financial 
situation. 
It follows that Home Retail Group should put things right.
Putting things right  what Home Retail Group needs to do
Rework Mr Ts account to ensure that from 1 July 2011 onwards interest is 
only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £1200, including any buy 
now pay later interest, (being the credit limit that was in place before that date) to 
reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases should have been provided. All 
late payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made Home Retail Group should contact Mr T to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan. Once Mr T has repaid the outstanding balance, it should remove 
any adverse information recorded on Mr Ts credit file from 1 July 2011. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr T, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments 
from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. Home 
Retail Group should also remove any adverse information from Mr Ts credit file 
from 1 July 2011 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Home Retail Group to take off tax from this interest. 
Home Retail Group must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mr Ts complaint. Home Retail Group & 
Company Limited should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman