DRN-3940305
The complaint
Mr F complains that Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk (Valour) provided him 
with a loan without carrying out appropriate affordability checks. 
What happened
Mr F took one loan from Valour for £750 on 25 November 2021. Mr F was due to make eight 
monthly repayments of £187.50. Valour says Mr F has repaid this loan.  
Valour considered Mr Fs complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
lend based on the checks it carried out. Unhappy with this response, Mr F referred his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. She concluded Valour made a reasonable 
decision to provide the loan because it had carried out proportionate checks which showed 
the loan repayments to be affordable. She also didnt think Valour needed to have verified 
the information Mr F had provided. 
Valour hasnt acknowledged or responded to the adjudicators assessment. 
Mr F said he didnt agree with the outcome. In summary he said.
Mr F says he had three bank current accounts close to the overdraft limits. 
The checks were insufficient for Valour to have built a clear picture of his financial 
situation which was important given the term of the loan.
Valour ought to have requested copies of Mr Fs bank statements. 
Mr F was borrowing significant amounts from other short term loan providers. 
Mr F was already overcommitted when this loan was provided and is finances 
werent stable. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to an ombudsman for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Valour had to assess the lending to check if Mr F could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Valours checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Fs income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Valour should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr F. 
These factors include:
Mr F having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr F having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr F coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr F. As there was only one loan, the 
adjudicator didnt think this applied in Mr Fs case. 
Valour was required to establish whether Mr F could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr F was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Fs complaint.
Valour asked Mr F for details of his income, which he declared to be £2,900 per month. Mr F 
as part of his application also declared outgoings of £662.28. This left Mr F with around 
£2,372 of disposable income each month  which was more than enough for Valour to 
reasonably conclude the loan was affordable for him. 
Mr F also spoke to a Valour agent (and a copy of the call has been provided which I have 
listened to) in which he confirmed details of his application such as his employer and pay 
date, his living situation and details of his income and expenditure. 
In addition, before this loan was approved Valour also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that 
although Valour carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let 
alone one to a specific standard. Therefore, its entirely possible that the information Valour 
received may not reflect the information Mr F may be able to view on the credit report that he 
has sent to us. There could be for several reasons for this, such as Valour only asking for 
certain pieces of information such as the number of active credit accounts. But what Valour 
couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the information it received 
 if necessary.  
So, although Mr F has provided a copy of his full credit report, Im not, in this case going to 
be considering it, because Valour did a credit search and has provided the results which it saw at the time of Mr Fs application.  So, I can see what it considered before it approved the 
loan. In my view, Valour was also entitled to rely on the results it was given as it didnt have 
anything to suggest the results were in anyway inaccurate. 
The credit check results gave an overview of all the active credit accounts that Mr F had. 
Valour was aware of three current accounts with total overdraft balances of around £6,000. 
He also had five active credit cards and a mail order account with balances totalling £2,144. 
But Mr F wasnt at the limit at or over the limit on any of the credit cards and / or the mail 
order account. He also had an unsecured loan and a payment that had been noted as being 
insurance  which could be his car insurance. 
As part of the affordability assessment Valour says that £200 was Mr Fs monthly credit 
commitments plus £150 car insurance, this was the amount Mr F declared as part of his 
application and what he confirmed as correct on the phone call with the agent. 
However, looking at the credit report results provided by Valour the £150 car insurance 
payment is there and seems about right given the insurance record that Valour could see in 
the credit checks. 
There is also a loan with a monthly repayment of £62. However, it doesnt look like Valour 
took account of payments that Mr F would need to have made to service and repay his five 
credit cards and mail-order account  and it had access to this information about the 
balances and the repayments. This would likely have come to more than £130 per month. 
This also doesnt cover any repayments Mr F may have to make towards his overdrafts, but I 
accept these didnt have a specific repayment term. All in all, I do think the £200 per month 
credit commitment wasnt likely to be correct given what Valour had access to. 
But in saying that, even if Valour had added an additional amount to Mr Fs credit 
commitments on top of what was already considered than the loan still wouldve looked 
affordable as Mr F wouldve still had a significant amount of disposable income.  
In addition, the credit check results didnt show any default or any missed payments, so it 
wouldve been reasonable of Valour to believe that Mr F while having a number of credit 
accounts to service, he was doing so without any obvious repayment problems. 
There was also anything else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Valour to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information 
Mr F had provided. So, while Mr F has provided his bank statements, in this case, it wouldve 
been disproportionate for Valour to have considered them. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Valour to have 
relied on the information Mr F provided which showed he had sufficient disposable income to 
afford the repayments he was committed to making. There also wasnt anything else to 
suggest that Mr F was having financial difficulties or that the loan repayments would be 
unsustainable for him in some other way. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Fs complaint. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman