DRN-2006563
The complaint
Miss B complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2004 in connection with a store card.
What happened
Miss B says she bought a PPI policy in 2004 to support a Top Shop store card. PPI 
premiums were added to her store card account. The policy was sold during a meeting in 
store. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld because she thought AXA France 
hadn't given Miss B enough information about the cost and benefits of the policy which 
was clear, fair and not misleading. Our adjudicator thought her employee benefits and 
savings outweighed the benefit of the PPI cover. AXA France disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
AXA France added that it was unlikely Miss B would get 6 months sick pay from her 
employer at the time of the sale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss B's case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Miss B's complaint and Ill explain why.
Im satisfied from the evidence that Miss B was eligible for the optional PPI policy which she 
bought.  
AXA France said it was a non-advised sale. So AXA France needed to make sure it 
gave Miss B enough information about the policy so she could decide for herself if she 
wanted to buy it. But I dont think it did give Miss B clear enough information about the 
policy.
I dont know exactly what was said to Miss B during the meeting when she bought PPI. I 
dont know how AXA France explained what percentage of her outstanding balance would 
be covered, that the PPI premium would be added to the store card balance and could 
attract interest or that Miss B would need to keep paying the PPI if she made a successful 
claim - which in real terms would reduce the level of benefit to less than 15% of the 
outstanding statement balance.
I think this would have mattered to Miss B because she said she would have got the 
equivalent of six months full pay from her employer if she couldnt work due to illness and 
she had savings worth six months salary. So I think she could have met her store card 
repayments for a while without the policy. I dont think Miss B would have bought the policy if 
shed known the true cost of it. So, I think Miss B has lost out because of what AXA France 
did wrong.
Ive taken into account AXA Frances comments including what its said about the likelihood 
of Miss Bs sick pay. But I still think I should uphold this complaint. Miss B has been certain 
in telling us about her sick pay benefits from her employer and her savings when this policy 
was sold. So I still think Miss B could have managed without the PPI for long enough not to 
need it. 
Taking into account everything Ive read and been told, I think its fair to accept what Miss B 
has said. I think Miss B would have had enough sick pay and savings to mean she didnt 
really need the policy. So I dont think Miss B would have bought it if shed had better 
information about it.
Putting things right
I think AXA France - which has taken responsibility for looking at this PPI sale - did 
something wrong so it needs to do something to put things right for Miss B.
My final decision
AXA France IARD should put Miss B in the financial position shed be in now if she 
hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA France IARD should find out how much Miss B would have owed when 
she closed her store card account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should 
remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA France IARD should then refund the difference between what Miss B owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA France IARD can take off 
what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA France IARD should add simple interest on the difference between what 
Miss B would have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it 
until she gets the refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C. If  when the AXA France IARD works out what Miss B would have owed each 
month without PPI  Miss B paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA 
France IARD should also pay simple interest on the extra Miss B paid. And it 
should carry on paying interest until the point when Miss B wouldve owed AXA 
France IARD something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 

D. AXA France IARD should tell Miss B what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA France IARD to take off tax from this 
interest. AXA France IARD must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if she asks for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman