DRN-3177990
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA, reported a late payment on his credit 
file.
What happened
Mr A has a credit account with PayPal. Mr A didnt make the monthly contractual payment 
that was due on the account in March 2021 and so his account fell into arrears. PayPal 
contacted Mr A about this on 1 April 2021, at which time Mr A made the payment needed to 
clear the arrears. However, Mr A later learned that PayPal had reported the March 2021 
payment as being a late payment on his credit file. Mr A wasnt happy about this, so he 
raised a complaint.
PayPal looked at Mr As complaint. But they felt that theyd reported the late payment 
accurately to the credit reference agencies, and so they didnt uphold Mr As complaint.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with PayPals response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that PayPal hadnt acted 
unfairly in reporting the late payment to the credit reference agencies, and so they also didnt 
uphold Mr As complaint.
Mr A remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr A might want to not have the March 2021 payment that was due on 
his PayPal credit account reported on his credit file as being paid late. However, this 
payment was paid late by Mr A, and PayPal, like all credit providers, have a responsibility to 
make accurate reports to the credit reference agencies.
Additionally, PayPal have confirmed that Mr A didnt have a direct debit set up to ensure that 
monthly payments towards the account were made on time, but instead made each monthly 
payment manually. This means that its difficult to conclude that there was any underlying 
reason for the payment being made late, other than that Mr A, for whatever reason, didnt 
make the March 2021 payment on time.
Mr A has stated that when he spoke with PayPal on 1 April 2021 and made the payment to 
bring the account back up to date, he was told that by making that payment that no adverse 
information would reported to his credit file.
Unfortunately, PayPal didnt record the telephone call on 1 April 2021, and as such they 
havent been able to supply a recording of it to this service. This means that I havent been 
able to assess exactly what was or wasnt said by PayPal to Mr A on this call. 
However, I dont feel that the absence of this information is significant here, and I say this 
because PayPal have confirmed that theyd already reported the payment as not having 
been made on time to the credit reference agencies when they spoke with Mr A on 1 April 
2021. This means that it would always have been the case that the payment was reported to 
the credit reference agencies as being late.
Additionally, given that Mr A has demonstrated by making this complaint that he wants to 
maintain his credit file in as strong a condition as possible, I dont feel that Mr A would have 
chosen not to make the payment to clear the arrears on 1 April 2021, if hed been told at that 
time that a late payment would be reported on his credit file because of it. And this is 
especially the case when its considered that if Mr A hadnt made the payment to clear the 
arrears on 1 April 2021 then its possible that further adverse reporting would have been 
incurred on his credit file as a result.
As such, regardless of what may have been said to Mr A on the telephone call of 1 April 
2021, Im satisfied that it would always have been the case that a late payment would have 
been reported to Mr As credit file by PayPal, and that its more likely than not that Mr A 
would still have made the payment to clear the account arrears at that time. And, ultimately, 
the key point here is that Mr A did make the March 2021 payment late. 
Id therefore like to confirm to Mr A that even if the 1 April 2021 telephone call had been 
recorded, and PayPal had explained to Mr A that he wouldnt incur adverse reporting on his 
credit file if he made the arrears payment on that date, I still wouldnt instruct PayPal to not 
report the March 2021 payment as being made late  because to do so would be to ask 
PayPal to not accurately report the payment, which was made late.
All of which means that, for the reasons stated above, I dont feel that I can reasonably 
conclude that PayPal have acted unfairly towards Mr A by reporting the late payment on his 
credit file, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
PayPal to take any further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome Mr A was wanting, but I trust that hell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman