DRN-2895021
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly declined its 
application for a Bounce Back Loan.
Ss director, Mr O, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
Mr O, on behalf of S, applied for a Bounce Back Loan on 5 May 2020. 
Soon afterwards, HSBC sent S a Bounce Back Loan agreement which Mr O signed and 
returned. But then Mr O didnt hear anything more, or receive the funds he was expecting for 
S, so he complained. He was unhappy about how long things were taking and the lack of 
updates.
 
In response, HSBC said it was still working through applications. But then, on 26 June, it told 
Mr O that Ss application had been declined. Mr O complained about the banks decision, he 
felt S should receive a Bounce Back Loan because hed already signed an agreement on its 
behalf. Further, Mr O alleged the banks decision was discriminatory in its treatment of him 
and S.
 
On 1 July, HSBC issued its final response. In it, the bank said it had assessed Ss 
application in-line with its guidance and policies and was unable to progress it any further. 
HSBC explained that a decision to lend is based on many factors, but it assured Mr O that 
race or ethnicity was not one of them.
 
Mr O remained unhappy, so he referred Ss complaint to our service. An investigator here 
reviewed Ss complaint. In summary, he said:
 Ss application had failed the checks that HSBC had conducted as required under 
the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. And it wasnt unreasonable of the bank 
to have carried out checks before the funds were drawn down;  
 Looking at the information HSBC had reviewed when assessing Ss applications, the 
banks decision was reasonable; 
 But there had been unreasonable delays in assessing Ss application  so the bank 
should pay S £150 compensation in recognition of the inconvenience caused.   
Mr O didnt accept the investigators findings and he asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
said there were no fraud or anti-money laundering markers against him, so he couldnt 
understand why the bank had declined Ss application.
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
 
At the outset, Ill also say that Im aware Mr O is unhappy about HSBCs later decision to 
close Ss account. But I think thats a separate issue to Ss Bounce Back Loan application, 
which is the subject of this complaint. So, Ive not considered the account closure as part of 
this complaint or addressed it in this decision.
 
Turning to the matter at hand, the Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules set out that the decision 
to lend ultimately lied with the lender. And in reaching that decision, there were certain 
checks that had to be carried out.
In short, applications were subject to customer fraud, anti-money laundering and 
Know Your Customer checks. These checks are an important legal and regulatory 
requirement, which were necessary under the Scheme rules.
HSBC says it declined Ss Bounce Back Loan application because it failed those checks. 
And having looked at the information the bank took into account when assessing Ss 
application, I think its decision was reasonable.
 
Ive considered what Mr O has said about the unfairness of the banks decision, given that 
hed already signed Ss loan agreement. And I can appreciate that it wouldve been more 
helpful to S if the bank had completed all required checks prior sending Mr O the loan 
agreement. Nonetheless, given the checks were a requirement of the Scheme, they had to 
be carried out. And I dont think it was unreasonable of HSBC to complete the checks before 
the funds were drawn down. Given S failed those checks, I dont think the bank declined Ss 
application unfairly.
 
Ive noted Mr Os assertion that there are no detrimental markers recorded against him  or 
S  with external agencies. But having seen the banks internal records, the information it 
was presented with at the time doesnt lead me to think that HSBCs decision was incorrect 
or unreasonable.
 
Mr O isnt satisfied with HSBCs explanations, and hed like more detail around why the bank 
eventually declined Ss application. But, as the investigator explained, HSBC isnt obliged to 
provide any more information than it already has. And nor would it be appropriate for me to 
require it do so, given that information around how banks reach such decisions is subject to 
some legitimate confidentiality.
When Mr O complained to HSBC, he believed its decision to be discriminatory. But I dont 
think the bank applied any unnecessary scrutiny toward Ss application. And Ive seen 
nothing to suggest HSBC made any decisions based on Mr Os race or ethnicity. Rather, Im 
satisfied that the bank has shown it had some legitimate questions over Ss applications. So, 
while I understand Mr O is disappointed and unhappy with the banks decision, for the 
reasons Ive set out, I dont think HSBC declined Ss application unfairly or unreasonably.
 
That said, while I dont think Ss application was unfairly declined, I do think the bank 
shouldve dealt with it sooner. Mr O had to chase HSBC on several occasions over the 
course of a few weeks, and I can understand his frustration at having signed a loan 
agreement only for Ss application to be declined. So, I think S was put to some inconvenience, and I consider compensation to be a fair way of putting that right.
 
Our investigator recommended £150 and, in all the circumstances, I think thats a fair 
amount to recognise the conflicting information provided to Mr O and the delay of a few 
weeks. So, thats what I require HSBC to pay S to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require HSBC Bank UK Plc to pay S 
£150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman