DRN-3586919
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Wills & Trusts Independent Financial Planning Limited 
(Wills & Trusts) havent rebated to them commission that they are due from their life policy. 
The policy is reviewed every five years and Mr and Mrs C say they should be entitled to a 
rebate from those renewals in 2016 and 2021. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a life assurance plan in November 2006. The sum assured was 
£296,905 payable on the death of the last survivor of the lives assured  Mr or Mrs C. After 
ten years, the plan was to be reviewed every five years and it was likely the premium would 
have to increase to maintain the sum assured.
Mr and Mrs C raised a query with Wills & Trusts in November 2021 about the initial 
commission rebate they thought they should be paid upon the renewals of the policy in 2016 
and 2021. In response it said;
The initial commission rebate of £271 was provided to Mr and Mrs C but they had 
queried the further amounts of £774 and £934 for the two later renewals. 
It explained that during the lifetime of the policy renewal commission is paid to the 
advising firm and would be listed as initial on Mr and Mrs Cs statements. But the 
policy itself hadnt changed but renewed each five to ten years with the potential for 
premium increases which would trigger a new initial commission. 
The initial commission was only rebated to its client at the implementation of the 
policy and not each time it was renewed. 
Mr and Mrs C werent happy and complained to the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator 
who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. They said;
Mr and Mrs C had been advised to take out the policy in 2006 as part of their Wealth 
Management Plan. The Special Provisions of the plan said the initial commission 
would be rebated to Mr and Mrs C. This was because they had been charged a fee 
for the implementation of the product but that there was no agreement for any further 
commission to be rebated to them.
The 2016 and 2021 renewals would pay more initial commission to Wills & Trusts 
but that Mr and Mrs C werent entitled to receive the commission that was paid to 
Wills & Trusts upon renewal of the policy.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. The investigator clarified the meaning of initial commission on 
the statements Mr and Mrs C received and that the initial commission to be rebated to them 
was only on the set up of the policy in 2006. 
Mr and Mrs C still didnt agree and asked that the complaint be considered by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
I know the parties are aware of the Special Provisions section of the Wealth Management 
Plan but I repeat them here for completeness;
These products also pay commission to the introducing adviser. As we are a fee-
based firm you will have paid the above fee for the implementation of the product. 
We will, therefore, rebate to you, the initial commission paid to yourselves within 28 
days of receipt.
And under Fee schedule in the same document it says;
Our belief is that clients prefer to know up front what the charges are. For that 
reason we have a policy of charging a set fee for each meeting and a set fee for each 
piece of work undertaken.
If a fee is payable we will rebate the initial commissions received into the product or 
investment. If, however, it is more appropriate we will refund the commission paid, to 
you within 28 days of receipt from the provider
I think the key point here is that at the outset of the policy Mr and Mrs C had paid a fee to 
Wills & Trusts for the advice they had received because it was a fee charging firm. Its 
income wasnt solely reliant on fees or rebates received from product providers. 
And because Mr and Mrs C had already paid for the advice to invest into the plan, they 
would receive a rebate of the initial commission that was paid to Wills & Trusts on the 
implementation of the plan. Otherwise Wills & Trusts would be paid twice by receiving both 
payments for the same piece of advice and investment decision to invest into the plan.
But after that, upon renewal of the plan in 2016 and 2021, Mr and Mrs C didnt pay any fee 
to Wills & Trusts for any further advice to invest into the plan and for the implementation of a 
product. That product was already in place and no further advice was given. The plan was 
just renewed after consideration by the product provider of the premiums that would be 
needed to sustain the sum assured. 
Ive seen the documents Mr and Mrs C received from the product provider at the renewal 
stages and that they do refer to initial commission that would be paid to Wills & Trusts for 
arranging the plans. And I can see why this may have given rise to some confusion. But I 
note that commission related to the size of the premium increase only and not a new or 
different plan that Mr and Mrs C had received advice about from Wills & Trusts. Wills & Trust 
were only ever paid commission from the 2016 and 2021 renewals in relation to the increase 
in premiums and not the total premium charge. 
Mr and Mrs C hadnt paid any further fee than the fee they paid upfront to Wills & Trusts for 
the advice they received to invest into the plan at the outset. And upon implementation at the 
outset, Mr and Mrs C had received a rebate of the commission Wills & Trusts had received 
from the plan provider to reflect that Mr and Mrs C had already paid for that service and Wills 
& Trusts shouldnt benefit twice for the same piece of work. It wasnt Wills & Trusts decision about whether to increase the premiums of the policy upon 
renewal. It didnt take took part in the exercise so wouldnt receive any fee from                  
Mr and Mrs C and wouldnt be responsible for increases in the premiums (which I accept 
wasnt unlikely).
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C dont agree and think they should benefit from the initial 
commission upon each review of the premiums and renewal of the policy. But different 
businesses can set up their own different commission rebates and fees schedules. Not all 
businesses are the same when it comes to charging structures and rebates. 
In order for me to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint I would need to see persuasive evidence 
that Wills & Trusts acted outside of the agreement they had with it. And in this case, I 
havent. I can see where the confusion has come from with regard to initial, but I hope an 
understanding of the fee structure and what Mr and Mrs C paid advice for at the outset has 
helped make things clearer. 
Taking all of the above into consideration Im not sufficiently persuaded by the evidence that 
the complaint should succeed. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed with the 
outcome I have reached but I hope I have been able to explain how and why I have reached 
it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman