DRN-2228991
The complaint
Mr A, in his capacity as trustee of G, has complained that ReAssure Limited reinvested the 
assets held within the trust into a cash fund, meaning the value decreased over time.
All of the trustees have brought this complaint to our service on behalf of the trust, but for 
ease, Ill refer to Mr A throughout.
What happened
Mr L took out a Guaranteed Quarterly Stockmarket Bond (the bond) in September 1999, 
investing £20,200. The bond was placed in a trust - G - of which Mr L and Mrs L were 
appointed trustees, as well as their son, Mr A.
In 2019 Mr A raised a complaint about the value of the bond after being informed the 
majority of the units were invested in cash, rather than equities. He said when the bond had 
been taken out, the trustees had been led to believe the investment would grow by at least 
the projected mid growth rate of 6%. So, they expected the value after 20 years to be at 
least £57,000. However, the surrender value given in May 2019 was around £22,000.
ReAssure told Mr A that in September 2013 it had written to the trust to explain that the 
funds the bond was invested in were closing and so the units would need to be moved into 
alternatives. The letter explained the trust needed to get in touch with ReAssure with its 
choice of funds and if ReAssure didnt hear back by 1 December 2013, it would 
automatically switch 98% of the investment to a cash fund and 2% to an equity fund. This 
was to maintain the capital protection the trust had asked the bond to provide when it was 
set up. ReAssure told Mr A that as it hadnt received a response, the investments had been 
switched as per the letter, and had remained there to date.
Mr A complained on behalf of the trust. He said the trustees hadnt received this letter and 
thought it was unreasonable that ReAssure didnt follow things up. In any event, he thought 
the letter was misleading as it said the funds would be switched to maintain the previous 
objective  he said the bond had been invested almost entirely in equities, so the investment 
shouldve been switched to similar equity funds.
ReAssure didnt uphold the complaint. It said the only way to guarantee the capital value, 
which was the trusts objective at the time the bond was sold, was to place the majority of 
units in cash funds. It said it couldnt switch the investments to alternative funds, which put 
the capital at risk, without instruction from the trustees.
Mr A referred his complaint to our service. He said the statements received from ReAssure 
after the switch wouldnt have alerted the trustees to the fact the majority of funds were held 
in cash.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied ReAssure had sent the letter 
to the trust at the correct address, and she thought this clearly explained the reasons why a 
fund switch was necessary, as well as what would happen if the trust didnt respond. She 
thought switching the investments to cash was reasonable as it protected the value of the 
capital. The investigator also thought the statements clearly showed the majority of the funds 
were held in cash from 2014. 
Mr A didnt agree and asked for a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator.
When the bond was taken out in 1999, it ensured that 98% of the capital invested was 
protected. It achieved this by investing a proportion of the funds in low risk assets such as 
deposits and gilts, which provided the guarantee, with the remaining assets invested in the 
stock market to provide potential growth. As Im sure Mr A appreciates, the landscape has 
much changed since then, particularly following the financial crash in 2007. ReAssure 
explained that interest rates fell significantly, so the participation of the bond in the stock 
market also fell.
ReAssure explained that it took over the bond from the previous provider in 2012  
I understand the trustees were informed of this at the time. ReAssure says that at the point 
of migration, the bond was almost entirely invested in low risk assets in order to maintain the 
guarantee, with very little invested in equities. ReAssure took the decision to close the funds 
as they were no longer achieving the intended objective. It sent a letter to the trust in 2013 
explaining this and the options going forwards.
Ive seen a copy of this letter, dated 11 September 2013, and Im satisfied that it clearly 
explained why changes were necessary and what options the trust had. I know Mr A says 
this letter wasnt received, but it was correctly addressed so I have no reason to doubt it was 
delivered.
Mr A says that it was unreasonable for ReAssure to only send one letter about this and it 
ought to have followed things up over the years. But ReAssure sent transaction statements 
every six months and an anniversary certificate to the trust each year in September. These 
wouldve shown the value of the bond, which in September 2013, was around £22,500. The 
anniversary certificates that Ive seen, dated 27 September 2014, 27 September 2015, 
27 September 2016 and 27 September 2017, show the vast majority of the bond units were 
invested in the following fund:
AL GQSB Cash fund GQSB Life Accumulator 1
So, even if the letter of 11 September 2013 hadnt reached the trust, Im satisfied it was clear 
from the statements sent from 2014 onwards that the vast majority of the bond units were 
invested in a cash fund. I think it was also clear that the value of the bond hadnt 
substantially increased since the investment was made in 1999.
Mr A says that ReAssure ought to have reinvested the funds in alternative equity funds 
rather than the cash fund. He said the bond was previously invested in the European fund 
which had a risk rating of six, and the Global Managed fund which had a risk rating of seven, 
on a 50:50 basis. He didnt think it was fair to say that the action taken by ReAssure in 2013 
could reasonably be described as maintaining the bonds previous objective, as the cash 
fund had a risk rating of one. But as ReAssure has explained, one of the main objectives of 
the trust was to protect 98% of the capital value of the bond. And because of the changing 
market conditions over the years, this could no longer be achieved without investing the majority of the units in a cash fund. So, if ReAssure had reinvested the assets in funds with 
risk ratings of six or seven in 2013, 98% of the capital could not have been guaranteed.
I think its important to note that the trust hadnt engaged the previous provider, or ReAssure, 
to provide any ongoing advice to it. For this reason, ReAssure couldnt make any 
adjustments to the investment that strayed from the original objective without being given 
further instructions. So, it was the trustees responsibility to ensure that the bond remained 
suitable for the needs of the trust.
I appreciate that due to Mrs Ls health, Mr L has had less time to attend to financial matters. 
But given Mr A was also a trustee, and ReAssure provided statements showing the 
performance and make up of the assets in the bond, I cant say the trust was denied the 
opportunity to make any changes over the years.
I appreciate that the bond has not performed as the trust expected, but I dont think 
ReAssure has acted unreasonably here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the trustees, on 
behalf of G, to accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman