DRN-3870332
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt do enough to protect him 
from the financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the 
money once hed reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr A was added to a telegram group for professional marketing investors who used the 
group to discuss their investment strategy and opportunities with a company Ill refer to as 
B. The investors were complimentary towards the analysts who were offering 'signals' on 
cryptocurrency trading, which attempted to predict the cryptocurrency market to achieve a 
profit.
Mr A researched B and found positive reviews online. He also reviewed the trading platform 
and reached out to other members of the telegram group, asking for their opinion of the 
analysts. He was told the analysts were highly professional and competent and although 
theyd lost some money, they had eventually made a significant profit.
Mr A was contacted by someone claiming to be an analyst working for B, who told him to 
first purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange company and then load 
the cryptocurrency onto an online wallet. Mr A opened an account with a cryptocurrency 
exchange company Ill refer to as K, and a trading account with N. And between 6 June 
2022 and 24 June 2022, he made five payments to K totalling £52,363.79. Four of the 
payments were transfers from his Halifax account and one was made using a debit card.
On 6 June 2022 Mr A £3,863.79 using his debit card, with no intervention from Halifax. Later 
the same day he attempted to transfer £15,000, but Halifax blocked the payment. During the 
subsequent call, Mr A was asked basic questions, such as whether anyone was forcing him 
to make the payment. The call handler also told him cryptocurrency was high risk, before 
releasing the payment.
When Mr A decided he wanted to make a withdrawal, he was told he needed to pay 15% 
commission, which he paid. He was then told he needed to pay capital gains tax on the 
profits, at which point he realised hed been scammed. Mr A complained to Halifax arguing it 
should've stopped the payments. But Halifax refused to refund the money hed lost. It said 
hed failed to research the investment, stating he should have checked B was regulated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and looked for independent reviews.
It said stopped the first debit card payment so it could check it was really him making the 
payment by sending a one-time passcode. It also stopped the second payment and he said 
he was sending money to his own cryptocurrency account and that no one else was 
involved. It also stopped payments on 9 June 2022 and 24 June 2022 and, based on what 
he told it, it couldnt have known he was being scammed.
Halifax stated it was signed up to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code, but 
as hed sent funds to an account in his own name and it was lost from there to the 
fraudsters, he should complain to the provider from which he lost the funds.
Mr A complained to this service with the help of a representative. The representative 
explained Mr A had little to no knowledge of investing in cryptocurrency and had simply 
followed the instructions given to him. They argued Halifax would have known this type of 
scam often involves the use of a cryptocurrency wallet set up in the customer's own name. 
They said the transactions were out of character, so Halifax should have intervened.
Specifically, Mr A had previously only made small transactions for everyday spending, and 
he had never made large payments to cryptocurrency exchanges. Further, he sent his entire 
account balance to the cryptocurrency exchange company having transferred funds from 
other account, which should have raised concerns. He also made multiple large payments 
on the same day, all of which constituted a sudden and drastic change in the operation of 
the account.
The representative further argued that appropriately trained staff would easily have been 
able to identify this as a scam, but it failed to ask proper questions to understand what Mr A 
was doing and what the risk was. They argued the questions Halifax asked during the first 
call werent appropriate, for example it should have asked whether there was a third party 
involved and how he met the third party. And had it done so, Mr A would have said he was 
sending funds to N and that hed been contacted on a telegram group.
The representative said Halifax ought to have checked the FCA register and would have 
seen B was unregulated and it would have recognised that the story of how Mr A was 
groomed.
Responding to the complaint, Halifax said the circumstances in which Mr A was added to the 
telegram group and the fact he was told the investments could go from £32,000 to £38,000 
or even £50,000 within three or four weeks should have raised concerns.
It also said that when Mr A made the first payment, he was presented with a payment 
categorisation warning and selected Investment and funds. It also payments 1, 2 and 4 were 
stopped and referred for checks, and each time Mr A confirmed he was paying his own 
account. He was advised the payments were high risk and he said he was aware of the risks 
involved and the possibility of losing his money. He also said there were no third parties 
involved and no one had contacted him with an offer to make money.
My provisional findings
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr A says hes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. Halifax had said the CRM code didnt apply in this 
case because the payments were to an account in Mr As own name, and I was satisfied that 
is fair.
I was also satisfied Mr A authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his bank account, Mr A is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
I carefully considered the circumstances, and I was persuaded this was a scam. But I 
explained that although Mr A didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did authorise 
the disputed payments. Halifax is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it 
may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Prevention
I thought about whether Halifax could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence I had seen, 
the payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, Halifax 
had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider 
scam, so I needed to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr A when he 
tried to make the payments. If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id 
expect Halifax to intervene with a view to protecting Mr A from financial harm due to fraud.
The first payment for £15,000 on 5 June 2022 flagged for checks. I listened to the call Mr A 
had with the specialist fraud team, and I noted he was given a scam warning in that the call 
handler told him that people are sharing login details with third parties to gain maximum 
profits, and their accounts are being cleared out. But I noted he wasnt asked any questions 
around whether there was a third party involved or around the nature of the checks hed 
completed.
The next intervention took place on 9 June 2022 when Mr A tried to pay £16,800 to K. I 
listened to this and noted that, this time the call handler did ask whether there was a third 
party involved and they also checked Mr A had received the funds into the account he held 
with K and warned him that cryptocurrency investments were high risk. Mr A didnt mention 
the fact he was following instructions from a third party and, based on the fact he wasnt 
open when he was asked whether there was a third party involved, I didnt think Halifax 
missed an opportunity to identify that he was the victim of a scam.
The final call took place on 24 June 2022, when Mr A tried to pay £8,300 to K. During this 
call, Mr A was given a very detailed and robust scam warning, whereby the call handler 
described in detail the methods used by the scammers, including the fact they contact 
people on social media and encourage victims to open accounts on trading platforms where 
they think they can see their funds.
I thought carefully about what took place during the three interventions and I was satisfied 
Halifax intervened at the points I would expect it to. I was also satisfied that, overall, it did 
enough across the three calls. I thought the call handler could have done more during the 
call on 5 June 2022 because they ought to have asked Mr A some detailed questions around 
how he learned about the investment opportunity, whether there was a third party involved 
and if so, how he met them, and whether hed been promised unrealistic returns. I explained 
they should also have asked whether hed checked the FCA website and more generally 
about the nature of the checks hed undertaken.
Based on the fact Mr A denied the existence of a third party during the call on 9 June 2022, I 
had some concerns as to whether he would have been open in his responses if hed been had asked these questions during the first call. But considering he was paying £15,000 to a 
new payee which was associated with cryptocurrency, I said I would expect the call handler 
to have provided a similar scam warning to the one given on 24 June 2022.
However, as he went ahead with the payments having received a very thorough and 
effective scam warning on 24 June 2022, I didnt think the same warning on an earlier 
occasion would have made a difference to his decision to go ahead with the payments. Mr 
As representative had said the questions around whether hed given anyone access to his 
wallet werent relevant, and I agreed with that. But I was satisfied the scam warning he 
received on 24 June 2022 was relevant, yet it didnt make a difference to his decision to go 
ahead with the payment.
Further, I explained there were no regulatory warnings with either the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) or International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) 
websites to which Halifax could have drawn his attention, and it was clear Mr A believed B 
was genuine and that he considered he understood the investment based on the research 
hed done into cryptocurrency over the previous two or three years. And hed done some due 
diligence, including reaching out to other investors who he believed were genuine investors 
who were endorsing the investment. So, even if Halifax had done more during the call on 5 
June 2022, I didnt think it would have made a difference to the outcome.
Overall, I was sorry to hear Mr A has lost money and the effect this had had on him. But for 
the reasons I explained, I didnt think Halifax could have prevented it so I couldnt fairly tell it 
to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
Developments
Neither party has made any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party has added anything further for me to consider, my findings will be the 
same the findings in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman