DRN-2677915
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mr K. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1997. Lloyds sold Mr K the 
policy at the same time that he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr K disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
I think Lloyds made Mr K aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. On 
the credit card application form, which Mr K signed, there is a box you tick if you want to 
apply for PPI  and this box has been ticked by hand. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr K, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr K was self-employed and so not entitled 
to employer sick pay or redundancy payments. And hes said he didnt have savings at the 
time. So the PPI could have proved useful to help him to meet his credit payments, if he lost 
income due to sickness or through his work drying up. And, unlike with some PPI policies, it 
wasnt materially  more difficult to make an unemployment claim, compared to someone 
made redundant by an employer. 
Mr K has said that he was struggling at the time financially and he couldnt afford extra 
outgoings such as PPI. I dont have evidence though that he was in such financial difficulty 
that Lloyds should have known not to recommend PPI. And the application form did give 
Mr K the basic cost of the PPI (77p per month for every £100 that appears on your Gold 
Card statement). So hed have had a basic understanding of the extra cost  enough I think 
to tell him whether he should take on the extra cost in return for the cover offered. 
And I cant see any other reason why the recommendation was unsuitable. Once Lloyds had 
recommended the PPI, it would then have been up to Mr K to work out whether he thought 
the cover offered was worth the cost. 
Its difficult now to know how well Lloyds explained all the details of the PPI. Its possible the 
information Lloyds gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But a 
failure to give full information doesnt, by itself, mean the PPI was mis-sold. Instead there 
needs to have been an adverse consequence from a possible lack of information. And I think 
its unlikely there was. 
As Ive said, the basic cost was given on the application form  although there would have 
been clearer ways to set this out, and it wasnt as full as it should have been. But I cant see 
that other missing information, such as how long benefit would be paid, is likely to have 
made a difference. Even though limited to 12 months of benefit payments, it is still likely to 
have appeared useful. And I cant see that Mr K would have been put off by the major 
restriction of excluding pre-existing medical conditions.  
So, overall, Ive not seen strong evidence that the PPI was mis-sold. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K. But Lloyds 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr K about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr K, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, and so 
Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman