DRN-2259294
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about increases to the cost of their buildings and contents insurance 
with St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) over the years theyve held the policy.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a buildings and contents policy with St Andrews in October 2010, the 
policy renewed each year until the September 2019 renewal when it lapsed due to non-
payment.
The cost of the policy started at £265.82 and increased year on year, the September 2019 
renewal cost was £770.46. Mr and Mrs M feel that St Andrews took advantage of their 
loyalty by overcharging them for cover at each renewal. They have now found insurance 
which they feel offers the same protection at a lower price.
They complained to St Andrews as they felt they should be compensated for the years of 
overpaying for the insurance.
St Andrews looked into matters but didnt agree  it said it had been charging Mr and Mrs M 
the correct premiums each year for the cover it had provided. Mr and Mrs M werent happy 
with St Andrews response and so referred their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint; they looked at how Mr and Mrs M had been 
engaging with the renewal process. They could see there had been times where Mr and Mrs 
M had engaged to make amendments to the policy over the years, changing the risk. And 
didnt think St Andrews had taken advantage of any lack of engagement on their part on 
other years when pricing the policy.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and so the matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to highlight that I dont have the power to tell an insurer how it should price risk 
or say what an insurance policy should cost as I would be, in effect telling a business how it 
should operate  thats not my role. My role is to consider how St Andrews treated Mr and 
Mrs M with regards to their insurance and whether it was treating them fairly when it priced 
this. 
I understand Mr and Mrs M, feel strongly that St Andrews hasnt treated them fairly when 
setting the price of their insurance premiums each year. But having taken everything into 
account I dont think St Andrews has taken advantage of them, Ill explain.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy began in October 2010 at a price of £265.82 and increased over a 
number of years to £770.46. I need to consider if St Andrews was acting fairly in the way it 
set its pricing of this policy.
When a customer hasnt engaged with their renewal documents year after year  that is, 
theyve kept on paying the renewal price without getting in touch with the insurer or shopping 
around  wed describe these customers as inert. We think that at some point the business 
should become aware of this and wed expect it not to increase the price solely because of 
the customers inertia. 
In Mr and Mrs Ms case Ive looked at what happened around each time the price increased 
at renewal, and I cant say that the increases were as a direct result of Mr and Mrs Ms lack 
of engagement with the renewal process.
Looking at Mr and Mrs Ms policy I can see that it began in 2010 and at renewal in 2011 Mr 
and Mrs M increased the level of cover they had by adding personal belongings cover. This 
changed the risk and the premium.
I cant see that Mr and Mrs M engaged again until 2017, when they removed the personal 
belongings cover and increased their excess in a bid to reduce the premium.
Its not unusual for the cost of insurance to go up. Insurers often give new customers a 
discount on the true cost of the insurance and then increase the price over the next few 
years to recover that initial discount. St Andrews has told us that it steadily increased the 
price over the first six years to remove the new customer discounts. These increases 
wouldve happened regardless of Mr and Mrs Ms engagement with the renewal process, 
and so I dont think its unreasonable for it to have done this.
St Andrews has gone on to show us that each increase from that point on hasnt gone 
beyond its target margins. This is the model it uses to apply a consistent approach with all its 
customers when pricing its policies. I have checked this and am satisfied that St Andrews 
has treated Mr and Mrs M fairly when setting the renewal price for their policy each year.
I appreciate that part of Mr and Mrs Ms argument here is that they have been able to find 
equivalent cover elsewhere for a much cheaper price. But as I explained above, new 
insurances do often come with a large new customer discount applied. Its entirely possible 
the Mr and Mrs Ms new insurance provider has applied discounts here to attract their 
custom.
I know Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we 
 in trying to resolve their dispute with St Andrews  can do for them.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman