DRN-2865482
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc trading as NatWest, mis-sold him a 
Guaranteed Capital Bond III (the GCB).
Mr S is being represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC). All references to 
Mr S will include information from the CMC.
What happened
In June 2008 Mr S invested £30,000 in to a GCB. This was recommended to him by a 
NatWest adviser (the adviser) in a suitability letter dated 9 June 2008. The fact find 
completed by the adviser recorded the following details about Mr S:
He was 73 years of age and had been retired since 2000.
He had £30,813 in a savings account earning interest of 3.5%. 
His other assets consisted of £1,804 in a deposit account for emergencies and 
£16,460 in a cash Individual Savings Account.
He was prepared to invest £30,000.
His only source of income was a state pension of £587 per month and a net 
disposable income after rent and other household bills of £112.
The fact find noted that Mr S told the adviser that he (Mr S) wanted to achieve a greater 
return than he was receiving from the savings account of 3.5% and he wanted his money 
to grow. The adviser assessed Mr Ss risk rating as two out of five on the NatWest scale. 
He said this meant Mr S was a cautious investor who was prepared to accept the risk of 
possibly losing some of my money and to see some fluctuations in value.
The adviser initially recommended that Mr S invested in a Royal Scottish Assurance 
Guaranteed Capital Bond with a fixed term of six years. But Mr S rejected this advice saying 
he didnt want to invest for that long. So the adviser amended his recommendation to the 
GCB, which had a shorter term of three years and six months. The GCB had no guaranteed 
return but there was a guarantee to receive the capital invested at the end of the term. Mr S 
accepted this amended recommendation.
When the GCB matured in December 2011, Mr S received what hed originally invested. And 
in early 2020, he complained to NatWest saying that due to his investment failing to grow, 
this had meant in real terms, hed lost money. He said he wasnt someone willing to take this 
risk and this was something made clear to the adviser.
NatWest rejected Mr Ss complaint. It said that the GCB hadnt been mis-sold because 
Mr S had been provided with the relevant information about it at the time. This included 
information about risks, which Mr S was willing to take. NatWest said the suitability letter 
detailed a return on the investment itself wasnt guaranteed.
Our investigator recommended upholding the complaint. In summary, she said:
Mr S was an inexperienced investor with a one-off lump sum to invest. It was clear 
he wasnt prepared to accept any risk to his capital.
The Key Features document (KFD) and suitability letter didnt make it clear to Mr 
S the impact of the inflationary risk. 
As Mr Ss capital was returned with no increase in value, this was a loss in real 
terms and this potential wasnt properly explained to Mr S.
The adviser hadnt followed the NatWest benchmarks for diversification and the 
level of investment recommended taking into account Mr Ss experience and age.
Other investment options such as fixed rate bonds, werent properly explored.
Overall, she didnt think GCB was suitable for Mr S needs and objectives.
NatWest disagreed. In summary, it said:
The GCB was designed to, as a minimum, return the original amount invested. This 
is was in line with Mr Ss objectives and was explained to him.
The fact find and suitability letter made it clear that Mr S was willing to accept some 
risk in the hope for a greater potential return.
The suitability letter evidences that a conversation took place about alternative 
products including deposit based bonds.
The risk factors, including the effect of inflation, were made clear in the GCB 
explanatory documents. 
If the GBC had returned the maximum of 21% on top of the capital then it is unlikely 
that any such comparison would now be being made. The nil return was in line with 
the terms of the GCB and therefore, NatWest believe the advice was suitable based 
on the customers circumstances, objectives and attitude to risk.
In the years leading up to the advice, the FTSE 100 Index significantly outperformed 
the rates offered by fixed rate bonds. Therefore, the investigators assessment is 
made with the benefit of hindsight.
NatWest are satisfied that its diversification guideline limits were discussed with 
Mr S and he was still happy to proceed. 
So the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Im upholding this complaint. Before I explain why, I note that 
both parties have provided detailed arguments to support their respective case which I can 
confirm Ive read and carefully considered. However, I trust that neither party will not take the 
fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are 
expressed in less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every 
point raised, but instead to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
Mr S was an inexperienced investor with a one-off lump sum to invest. NatWest categorised 
him as a relatively cautious investor who was prepared to accept the risk of possibly 
losing some of [his] money and to see some fluctuations in value. But the fact find under 
Customers Views notes: You would like a guarantee placed on your capital and also a 
guaranteed minimum return on your capital. This would suggest Mr S not only wanted to 
protect his capital from the risk of loss but also wanted a guarantee that this would grow.
So whilst NatWest has said Mr S was only looking for a guarantee to his capital being 
returned, I dont think this was his stated objective. I think the fact find and the suitability letter makes it reasonably clear that he was also looking for a better return than he could 
obtain from his saving account which was 3.5%. So I think the product that was 
recommended to him should have reflected this level of risk appetite.
The nature of the GCB meant its performance was dependent on the FTSE 100 Index. The 
Bank of England base rate at the time was 5% (June 2008). Its likely that fixed rate bonds 
would have been at least the same as the Bank of England base rate if not higher. And if 
Mr S had taken out a fixed rate savings bond, he wouldve achieved a guaranteed rate of 
interest without any risks to his capital.
NatWest says Mr S was told about other products during his meeting with its adviser. It 
points to the suitability letter where it says: you want to have the potential for greater returns 
than those offered by lower risk deposit based accounts or deposit based bonds". However, 
its far from clear what, if any, comparisons were provided to Mr S about what he could have 
received, on a guaranteed return basis, without any risk to his capital.
Mr S was an inexperienced investor with no history of investing in the stock market and no
history of taking any significant risks with his money. The GCB was guaranteed to return the
money originally invested  not to provide a guaranteed growth on his capital. This is 
something Mr S had specifically asked for as part of the fact find process. From the 
documents Ive seen, I dont think he was given enough information to make an informed 
choice on the likelihood of the GCB earning him a return, or indeed, the chances of it giving 
him no return on his money.
NatWest makes the point that the three and a half years up until 2008 the FTSE 100 index 
had grown by over 30%. So NatWest thinks the 121% return at the end of the term wasnt 
unrealistic or improbable based on facts known at the time of the advice. And its only with 
the benefit of hindsight that this is being judged against the returns Mr S wouldve received 
with a fixed rate bond. But comparing the GCB against a fixed rate savings bond, the GCB 
certainly carried more risk of a nil return. 
Should Mr S make nil return on his GCB, the spending power of his capital would be 
reduced by inflation over the three and half years, resulting in a loss in real terms at maturity. 
NatWest says all of the risks, including the inflationary risk, were explained to Mr S. The 
suitability letter says It is important that you read again the Key Features document 
provided to you on 05/06/2008. This will ensure that you fully understand the investment. 
It lists some of these risks but not the inflationary risk. On this point the KFD said Dont 
forget that inflation would reduce what you could buy in the future with your original 
investment. 
Whilst I accept risks were pointed out to Mr S, I need to take into account his inexperience 
in investing. Im not sure by just pointing to the standard risk warnings in the KFD, for what 
was a fairly complicated product, would have been enough for him to fully understand the 
risks involved in investing in the GCB and/ or how the FTSE would need to perform in order 
that he receive the sort of returns set out in the KFD.
I also need to consider the merits of recommending the GCB to Mr Ss in light of his age and 
financial position at the time. He was 73 years old and was retired. His only source of 
income was a state pension of less than £600 a month with a small disposable income which 
was unlikely to improve given his age and circumstances. So, I think it was essential that he 
made maximum use of his savings, as hed probably be relying on this money to supplement 
his modest pension. Evidence of this was the fact that Mr S couldnt afford to have the 
money tied up for the six years the adviser initially recommended.
The suitability letter notes the adviser and Mr S discussed the bank's customer commitment benchmark where it said it wouldnt normally recommend an investment of this nature above 
an amount of £29,446 due to Mr Ss age and inexperience  Mr S was investing £30,000. 
The adviser also noted that the bank's diversification benchmark meant it wouldnt normally 
recommend an investment into one asset class above an amount of £19,631 for the same 
reasons. The adviser noted that Mr S was prepared to invest the amount he was because of 
the guarantee being placed on his capital.
Whilst Ive taken into account that Mr S was told about these benchmarks, its again far from 
clear whether he understood the significance of them. I also dont think that whether Mr S 
was prepared to accept going outside of the benchmarks is the relevant issue here  its 
whether the product was suitable for him. This was an assessment the adviser needed to 
make. And by following the recommendation of the adviser, Mr S was investing 61% of his 
total assets in one product which as Ive said, carried the risk of nil return at the end of the 
term. I dont think the recommendation was a reasonable one to make taking into account 
Mr Ss wants and needs.
All in all, I think it was clear the GCB wasnt suitable or appropriate for Mr S. By 
recommending this product to him, I dont think it paid due regard to the interests of Mr S 
and/ or treated him fairly. Im satisfied that if NatWest hadnt advised Mr S to invest in GCB, 
or if it had told him it wasnt suitable or appropriate for him, he wouldnt have invested in it. It 
follows from this that I think NatWests failures caused Mr S to invest in a product he would 
otherwise not have invested in.
For all these reasons, Im upholding the complaint. 
Putting things right  Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr S 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice. I take the view that Mr S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr S's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc must:
Compare the performance of Mr S's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should also pay interest as set out below. Income tax 
may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Guaranteed 
Capital Bond IIImaturedaverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
maturity8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end date 
to the date of 
settlement
Actual valueThis means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should use the monthly average rate for one-
year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that 
shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment 
on an annually compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because: 
Mr S wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr S's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr S would have invested only in 
a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained 
with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should provide details 
of its calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman