DRN-1902371
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about how Covea Insurance plc dealt with their claim for 
subsidence. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have a home insurance policy that is underwritten by Covea. In 2013 they 
discovered cracks in the extension to the property and made a claim for subsidence. 
In the coming years there was some disagreement about the cause of the subsidence. This 
led to Mr and Mrs M raising a complaint about the length of time the claim was taking to 
settle. This complaint was reviewed by an investigator at this service and compensation was 
awarded.
Two trees were eventually removed and a period of monitoring was undertaken. After some 
time, Covea was satisfied that the property had stabilised and was ready to move to 
superstructure repairs. However Mr and Mrs M were reluctant and wanted further monitoring 
to be sure that the property was stable. 
In 2019 Covea said that sufficient monitoring had now taken place and superstructure 
repairs should begin. However Mr and Mrs M were concerned about this as their mortgage 
was due to expire in June 2020 and they were worried that the subsidence problem would 
make it difficult for them to sell the property as they had planned to. They thought the 
property should be underpinned.
Covea agreed to look into the option of underpinning and got a contractor to inspect it and 
provide a quote. After receiving this Covea confirmed that although it didnt feel underpinning 
would be necessary, and therefore wouldnt be covered under the policy, it would agree to 
pay 50% of the cost in order to move the matter to a resolution. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt think this was fair. They said that because Covea had said it would look 
into underpinning that this would be covered under the policy. Further they said by not doing 
so the value of their property and ability to resell would be affected. They brought their 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended that the complaint is partially 
upheld. She said that she agreed Covea had offered a fair settlement of either cash settling 
for the light repairs or paying 50% of the underpinning costs. However she thought that it 
had provided poor service, particularly in managing Mr and Mrs Ms expectations around the 
underpinning being covered. So she said it should pay them £300 compensation to make up 
for this.
Mr and Mrs M didnt think this was fair, as they thought the settlement had been the light 
repairs and the 50% for the underpinning combined  not either one or the other. Further 
they thought £300 compensation wasnt sufficient to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience Covea had caused them.
Covea also didnt agree with our investigators view. It said it thought it had done enough by 
offering a generous settlement and didnt think it should pay any compensation.
As neither party agreed with our investigator, the complaint has come to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M dont think the settlement offered by Covea is fair. And both Covea and Mr 
and Mrs M disagree with the amount of compensation that should be awarded. I have 
considered each of these in turn. 
Settlement
I understand Mr and Mrs M would like their house to be underpinned. They think this would 
be the most long lasting option and would allow them to sell their house more easily.
I can understand their concerns and I agree that underpinning is the most robust fix for 
subsidence issues. However I need to decide if Covea has acted fairly and reasonably when 
settling the claim in line with policy cover.
Insurance provides cover for repair to damage caused by an insured peril - in this case 
subsidence. It says in the policy as follows:
We willAt our option either
Reinstate or replace the damaged buildings or any damaged part of the buildings, or
Pay the cost of any necessary repair or replacement work
So under the policy Covea need to do what they can to fix damage that has been caused by 
the subsidence, either by repair or cash settlement. And this service would expect the 
repairs to be both effective and long lasting.
I have looked at the comments made by Coveas loss adjuster. I can see that the 
subsidence damage isnt substantial. Further, from looking at the results of monitoring of the 
cracks, it seems clear that the cause of the subsidence  the two trees - has been identified 
and removed. Since then there has been a significant period of monitoring. And this has 
confirmed that the property has stabilised. 
Underpinning is a robust solution to subsidence, however it is seen as a last resort. And we 
would only expect it to be used in more extreme cases, where other options have been 
exhausted and a property hasnt stabilised. For Mr and Mrs M this isnt the case. So I 
wouldnt expect Covea to carry out underpinning. I agree it wouldnt be covered by the 
policy, as repairs can be achieved without it. 
Covea has offered a cash settlement based on light repairs. Further, it has also offered a 
certificate of structural adequacy and a guarantee that should future problems arise related 
to this peril, any future owners can claim on the policy. I think this is a reasonable offer as 
not only does this repair the damage but also helps provide reassurance for any potential 
future buyers of the property.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ms concerns around their future plans including the end of their 
mortgage and the sale of their property. It is unfortunate that subsidence can have an impact 
on many factors including re-sale. However that is an unavoidable consequence of 
subsidence. And it isnt something that is covered by the insurance policy. When looking at 
this complaint, I am only assessing whether Covea has acted fairly and reasonably and not the impact of the subsidence itself. And although I appreciate the impact to Mr and Mrs Ms 
plans is unfortunate, I dont think it is Coveas fault. 
Further Covea has offered to pay 50% of the cost to underpin the property as a gesture of 
goodwill. This goes beyond the cover of the policy. Covea has said it has been offered in 
order to move the matter to resolution. This is a generous offer and I wont interfere with 
Coveas decision to make it. However I agree that its fair that its offered only if Mr and Mrs 
M go ahead with underpinning and not as part of the cash settlement.
Compensation
I have also considered the service that has been provided by Covea and the impact this has 
had on Mr and Mrs M. Considering the claim was first raised in 2013, I can understand why 
Mr and Mrs M are frustrated that it has not yet been settled. However as this service looked 
at a previous complaint about the claim in 2015, I can only consider the service provided 
from this point. 
From looking over the case notes and correspondence I can see that the claim has been 
subject to delays. However a large proportion of these have been due to request for further 
monitoring from Mr and Mrs M. And from disagreement about underpinning. So although the 
claim has taken much longer than I would have expected to settle, I cant say this is Coveas 
fault.
However from looking at the information provided by Covea in relation to underpinning, I do 
agree that it could have managed Mr and Mrs Ms expectations better. When its loss 
adjuster explained that Covea was looking at the cost of underpinning, it wasnt explained to 
Mr and Mrs M that this wouldnt be included under the policy. I would expect this to have 
been made clear to them. But in fact the loss adjuster seems to suggest this may be covered 
by Covea. Mr and Mrs M were then under the impression that underpinning would be 
covered until Covea explained that this wasnt the case, a number of months later.
Although I agree this is correct that underpinning wouldnt be covered, I think this should 
have been made clearer to Mr and Mrs M at the time. And I agree that as it wasnt, it would 
have been distressing for them to find out they would have to pay half of this. As 
underpinning was discussed towards the end of 2019 and their mortgage was due to end in 
June 2020, this was a vital time for Mr and Mrs M when it came to making plans for their 
future. And I agree it may have impacted their decisions around what they would do, and 
they may have made different choices had they understood that they would be expected to 
pay for half of the cost of underpinning.
Further during this time Mr M suffered ill health following a heart attack. Although Ive not 
seen evidence to suggest this was linked to a stressful insurance claim, I appreciate this 
would have meant the distress caused would have had a bigger impact on Mr and Mrs M. 
Putting things right
For these reasons I agree with our investigators recommendation that Covea should pay Mr 
and Mrs M £300 compensation. This is to make up for the distress caused by the loss of 
expectation from expecting that underpinning would be included. This information was 
provided at a time when Mr and Mrs M had explained to Covea they were concerned about 
their mortgage expiring. And would have been more distressing due to Mr Ms poor health at 
the time.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I require Covea Insurance plc to pay Mr and Mrs M £300 
compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it has caused. This should be 
paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr and Mrs M have accepted my final decision. If 
Covea Insurance Plc pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman