DRN-3875249
The complaint
Mr C has complained that HSBC Life (UK) Limited has withdrawn unemployment cover. He 
also complains that his policy was mis-sold to him in 2009.
Mr C has raised another issue about the suitability of the policy, but this has not been raised 
with HSBC Life (UK) Limited so I have not considered it in this decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties 
Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. 
It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If 
theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual point to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I can understand why Mr C is disappointed that his cover has come to an end. 
However this was a decision taken by the underwriter of the policy, rather than 
HSBC. There is a term in the policy allowing the insurance to be cancelled with 90 
days written notice. This is what happened here.
Mr C feels the policy was sold on the basis that it would provide protection for the life 
of his mortgage. As it hasnt he believes the policy was mis-sold. But as indicated 
above, this was always an option and it was set out in the policy document. I dont 
find that the policy was unsuitable because it contained this term. Im satisfied too 
that Mr C was able to make an informed decision about whether to take the policy out 
on the information given to him. 
I note that HSBC did look for alternative cover on equivalent terms, but wasnt 
successful in finding any. In the circumstances I dont find that HSBC mis-sold the 
policy because it contained the cancellation term. 
There is no basis for me to require HSBC to refund an amount equivalent to the 
premiums Mr C paid  had a valid claim been made during the period of cover the 
policy would have responded.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman