DRN-3077126
The complaint
Mrs and Mr G complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold a 
decreasing term life assurance policy when they took out a new mortgage.
What happened
In 1995, Mrs and Mr G took out a joint mortgage with Halifax. At the same time, Halifaxs 
independent financial advisor recommended Mrs and Mr G take out a Mortgage Security 
Assurance policy to protect the borrowing in the event of either of their deaths.
Mrs and Mr Gs policy provided a decreasing sum assured of £115,000 that reduced as their 
mortgage was repaid. The policy was set up to run for a term of 25 years however the cover 
ended in 2018 when the mortgage was redeemed.
In 2019, Mrs and Mr G complained theyd been led to believe by Halifaxs advisor, their 
mortgage offer in 1995 was dependant on them taking the protection policy out. Mr G said, in 
hindsight, the cover wasnt necessary as his employment provided enough cover for any 
eventuality.
Halifax didnt uphold Mrs and Mr Gs complaint saying the policy wasnt compulsory, nor was 
it a condition of them obtaining the mortgage. Halifax also said their advisors notes from the 
time of the sale showed Mrs and Mr G were seeking protection and that employee benefits 
would not be factored into any recommendation as they could not be considered permanent.
Halifax did offer Mrs and Mr G £50 by way of an apology for them not responding to the 
complaint sooner. 
Mrs and Mr G werent happy with Halifaxs response so asked our service to investigate. 
One of our investigators looked into things and said the notes from the time of the sale 
suggested an active discussion had taken place about Mrs and Mr Gs protection options.
Our investigator said whilst Mrs and Mr G had said they felt pressured or obligated to take 
the policy out, she was satisfied it wasnt a condition of obtaining the mortgage, and that  
Mrs and Mr G declining critical illness cover supported this. Our investigator also felt it was 
reasonable for Halifax to acknowledge their delays in responding to Mrs and Mr G by 
offering them £50.
Mrs and Mr G didnt agree with our investigator as they felt shed taken a big corporations 
side. They said Halifax had mishandled their complaint from the start, ignoring all the rules, 
as theyd done by mis-selling them a policy they didnt require. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mrs and Mr G, 
so Ill explain why.
As part of Halifaxs response to Mrs and Mr Gs complaint, they explained its never been a 
condition of a Halifax mortgage that their customers take out life assurance. So, as the 
Mortgage Security Assurance policy sold to Mrs and Mr G wasnt a condition of lending, Ive 
considered whether it was fair and reasonable for the advisor to recommend the policy to 
Mrs and Mr G or, as they claim, it was mis-sold.
Mrs and Mr G say the advisor failed to make it clear to them that the policy was optional, and 
it wouldnt affect the outcome of their mortgage offer had they declined to take it. Whilst I 
understand they feel strongly about how the policy was sold, given I wasnt present, I cant 
be sure what was discussed. And, keeping in mind 26 years have passed since the policy 
was taken out, Ive placed more weight on the information gathered and recorded by the 
advisor at the time of the sale.
Halifax have been able to provide a full financial planner and summary of their advisors 
recommendation, showing Mrs and Mr G had an in-depth discussion about their protection 
needs.
In it, it says the advisor discussed a repayment mortgage both with and without protection 
options. It says Mrs and Mr G had a joint decreasing term assurance policy in place at the 
time. However, as this was taken with their previous mortgage, it would leave Mrs and Mr G 
with a large shortfall against their new borrowing.
The advisor recommended Mrs and Mr G take a new decreasing term life assurance policy 
and critical illness cover to protect the new borrowing, but they declined the critical illness 
element due to cost.
Mrs and Mr G say at the time the advisor made them think the protection was part of the 
deal, so they felt they had to pay it to get the mortgage. They say had they known it was 
optional they certainly wouldnt have taken it as the premium on top of their mortgage 
payment was quite a lot at the time.
But I can see for their existing life assurance policy at the time, Mrs and Mr G paid a similar 
premium to the policy they took out to cover their new borrowing. So, I think its reasonable 
to say that having protection in place was important to them. And, as the advisor notes, they 
recommended Mrs and Mrs G cancel their existing policy, but not until their new cover was 
on risk, therefore meaning theyd continue to only pay one premium.
I also note Mrs and Mr G believe they didnt need the policy as Mr Gs employee benefits 
wouldve covered them had anything happened. Mr G told our service he wouldve received 
a years wages had he been unable to work due to illness.
I appreciate Mr G mightve had a high level of benefits provided by his employee, but the 
policy taken out provided a lump sum which wouldve cleared the mortgage balance in the 
event of the worst happening to either Mrs or Mr G. The policy wouldve paid out in addition 
to any benefits Mr G mightve received should he have passed away.
And in any case, we wouldnt expect employee benefits to be considered suitable to protect 
long term borrowing such as a mortgage as they arent guaranteed and can stop 
immediately should employment end. 
So, I dont think the policy sold by Halifax was mis-sold. It provided the cover required to 
protect a repayment mortgage over 22 years should either Mrs or Mr G have passed away. 
Im satisfied the recommendation made was suitable.
Lastly, I understand Mrs and Mr G are unhappy with the way Halifax have handled their 
complaint. Halifax offered Mrs and Mr G £50 by way of an apology for the delays. As this 
offer has been made solely to reflect a shortfall in Halifaxs complaint handling, its not 
something I can consider, as we can only consider complaints about regulated activities  
such as the sale of the policy. Handling complaints is not a regulated activity in itself. So 
strictly speaking, Halifaxs offer for this isnt within our jurisdiction.I note when speaking to our investigator Mr G said hed not accepted Halifaxs offer. If      
Mrs and Mr G decided they did want to accept it, they should contact Halifax directly, but I 
wouldnt be able to decide if I think their offer is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman