DRN-3748045
The complaint
S, an overseas business, complains that Amazon Payments UK Limited (APUK) declined 
its application for a payment account and did not explain its reasons for doing so. It has not 
refunded fees taken, even though no account was ever operational. S is represented by its 
owner, Mr C.  
What happened
In September 2020 Mr C applied on behalf of S for an account with APUK. If the application 
were accepted, APUK would provide payment processing services to S, allowing it to accept 
card and online payments for items sold through Amazon Services Europe Sarl (ASE), an 
affiliate of APUK.
APUK decided however that it would not be willing to provide payment processing services 
to S. S appealed against that decision, but APUK was not willing to change it. It says it sent 
an email to Mr C in February 2021 confirming its position. Mr C did not receive it and 
continued to write to APUK. It was slow to respond or did not respond at all. It said in an 
email of 14 July 2021 that S could refer the matter to this service. 
Mr C did that, and one of our investigators considered what had happened. He 
acknowledged that APUK was within its rights to decline the application and suspend the 
account. He did not think however that APUK had treated S fairly and recommended that 
APUK pay £100 in recognition of the inconvenience to which S had been put and that it 
refund any fees levied. APUK did not agree with the investigators recommendations. 
Because no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for further 
review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service will not generally tell financial businesses whether or not they should provide 
services (or continue to provide services) to individuals or businesses. It was for APUK to 
decide whether it wanted to deal with S, as a matter of its own commercial judgment. I agree 
that it could decide not to do so here. 
I believe too that APUK told S that its appeal had been unsuccessful, although I also accept 
that Mr C may not have seen the notification sent on or about 4 February 2021. 
When, however, Mr C continued to correspond with APUK about the application for payment 
services, I think it would have been helpful if APUK had explained that the application and 
the appeal had been declined and that the account was therefore suspended. He was given 
the impression that the appeal had not been dealt with. Because of that, S was put to 
unnecessary inconvenience. I think that the investigators recommendation of £100 
compensation in recognition of that is fair in the circumstances. 
The investigator also recommended that APUK refund any fees taken; Mr C said that fees 
had been deducted until June 2021, even though the account had not been operational and 
even though S had not made any sales. 
APUK referred to the account terms, which sought to exclude liability for any losses resulting 
from, for example, lost sales in the event of suspension of the account. It said too that Mr C 
should contact ASE if he wanted S to have a refund. 
My understanding however is that any fees were deducted by APUK, so I think it is 
reasonable that it addresses any refund of it. It is a matter for APUK and ASE if any 
adjustment needs to be made between them. 
As far as the account terms are concerned, S is not, in my view, seeking compensation for 
losses arising from the account suspension. It is seeking a refund of fees taken for payment 
processing services which  for entirely legitimate reasons, as I have explained  have not 
been provided. So, even if I were to accept that APUK can exclude liability for loss of 
revenue or profits (for example), I do not believe it would be fair to allow it to retain any fees 
it has taken  given that no sales have taken place and no payments have been processed.     
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that, to resolve Ss complaint, Amazon Payments UK 
Limited should pay S £100 (or the equivalent in the currency chosen by S) and refund any 
fees it has taken from it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman