DRN-1728373
The complaint
The estate of Miss V complains that MetLife Europe Services Limited has unfairly declined a 
claim on the late Miss Vs life insurance policy. 
The estate of Miss Vs complaint has been brought by Mr V who is being represented by his 
solicitor. For ease, Ill refer to Mr V throughout the decision. 
What happened
On 27 August 2015 Miss V took out a PAX Personal Accident and Optional Life and Critical 
Illness Plan. 
On 21 April 2017 Miss V sadly took her own life. 
Mr V made a claim to MetLife which was declined on 16 April 2018.  MetLife said Miss V 
hadnt answered the medical questions in its application correctly. If these had been 
answered correctly, it said it wouldve asked Miss V more questions about her medical 
history. And if it had been aware of self-harming and cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT), it 
wouldve postponed or declined her application. MetLife added that it felt Miss V had 
deliberately or recklessly failed to answer the questions about her medical history. And that 
Mr V could claim a refund of the premiums that had been paid towards the policy. 
Mr V made a complaint about MetLifes decision. MetLife reviewed the complaint and sent a 
final response letter  dated 25 July 2018  upholding its decision not to accept the claim. So 
Mr V brought his complaint to this service. 
Our Investigator reviewed the complaint but decided not to uphold it. He felt Miss V had 
been careless when completing the application and shouldve disclosed her medical history 
to MetLife. If she had he was satisfied MetLife wouldve acted differently and postponed the 
application. So, he felt its decision to not accept the claim was fair. 
Mr V disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. He said the medical 
question MetLife asked in its application wasnt clear. He also felt MetLife wouldnt have 
been aware of Miss Vs self-harming because a copy of the questionnaires he had seen 
didnt ask any questions about it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying how sorry I was to read about Miss Vs death.
After weighing up all the evidence carefully, Im not upholding this complaint. I realise this 
will come as a great disappointment to Mr V  but Ill explain why.
In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately, CIDRA sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
So the issues for me to consider are whether Miss V made a misrepresentation when taking 
out this policy, and if so, whether MetLife has shown it wouldnt have offered the policy at all 
or wouldve done on different terms.
The enrolment certificate Miss V completed to apply for the critical illness cover only asked 
two questions about her medical history  and she answered no to both. The relevant 
question here reads:
In the last two years, have you or anyone else to be covered under the Optional Life & 
Critical Illness Insurance cover undergone, or been advised to have, any medical 
investigations, prescription medication*, x-rays*, scans or blood tests or been referred to, or 
are expecting to be referred to, a doctor, specialist or consultant for treatment or advice. 
*Unless requested to do so as part of employment with HM Regular Armed Forces.
was there a misrepresentation in relation to Miss Vs behaviour and physical therapy? 
Looking at Miss Vs medical records leading up to her application in September 2015, she 
had undergone a course of CBT from late 2014 to March 2015. Miss V was also receiving 
ongoing physical therapy to treat compartment syndrome, a muscle condition. I think both of 
these mean she had been referred to specialists for treatment.
Under CIDRA, the standard of care is that of a reasonable person  and Im satisfied the 
question makes clear that it covers specialist treatment received or recommended in the 
previous two years. The question doesnt explicitly mention psychiatric treatment, and 
focuses on physical tests. But because Miss V was seeing someone regularly for her 
compartment syndrome and had seen improvement from undertaking regular exercises over 
a long period, Im satisfied she should have answered yes to the question.
What would MetLife have done differently?
If Miss V had answered the question yes, she wouldve been asked to complete a health 
questionnaire, which included specific questions about her mental health  and this wouldve 
drawn out the fact that shed been referred for CBT.
This in turn wouldve prompted MetLife to ask her to complete a more specific Anxiety, 
Depression and Stress questionnaire. This included the question, 
Have you ever had any suicidal/self harm thoughts or attempted suicide? 
[]
If yes, please provide details including dates (month/year)
I note Mr V has said MetLifes questions wouldnt have elicited information about Miss Vs 
history of self-harm, and hes provided copies of MetLifes medical questionnaires to show 
this. But MetLife has explained that the mental health questionnaire weve received from
Mr V isnt the document it wouldve used  instead, its a different MetLife form used to 
request evidence direct from medical practitioners. Since the questionnaire Mr Vs provided refers to your patient in its questions, Im satisfied with MetLifes explanation that Miss V 
instead wouldve been sent the form its provided, which does directly ask about self-harm.
The records relating to Miss Vs CBT indicate she had engaged in some degree of self-
harming behaviour. And Ive seen evidence from MetLife which indicates that, had she 
correctly answered this, it wouldve postponed her application, and wouldnt have been 
prepared to offer any cover until 2018 at the earliest.
This means, very sadly, Miss V wouldnt have been able to obtain the cover before she 
passed away in 2017. So, Im satisfied its reasonable for MetLife to treat this as a case 
where it would never have offered any cover.
Our investigator disagreed with MetLifes finding that Miss Vs non-disclosure was reckless 
or deliberate. I am of the same view. Its sadly impossible to ask her why she answered as 
she did. And there isnt any evidence as to Miss Vs state of mind when she applied  or 
anything thats inconsistent with her simply making a mistake or misunderstanding the 
question. 
However, under CIDRA, a misrepresentation thats only considered careless still allows the 
insurer to end the policy, turn down any claims, and refund the premium where the insurer 
wouldnt have offered cover. As this is what MetLife has done, Im satisfied its acted fairly 
and in line with the law.
So, I wont be asking MetLife to take any further action here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Miss 
V to accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman