DRN-2902527
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as S and S complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs 
decision to restrict its business account.
Mr D, S and Ss director, brings the complaint on S and Ss behalf.
What happened
S and S opened a business account with Barclays in January 2020. 
In May 2020, S and S applied for a loan with Barclays under the Bounce Back Loan (BBL) 
Scheme. The loan was approved and a few days later, S and S received £20,000 of loan 
funds into its account.
In August 2020, Barclays placed a block on S and Ss account to carry out a review. Mr D, 
on behalf of S and S, complained that Barclays had repeatedly misinformed him about how 
long the review would take. Mr D said the block had caused S and S financial difficulties due 
to not being able to access the account. 
Barclays reviewed what had happened but said that it was following regulatory procedures in 
accordance with the terms and conditions on the account. Not content with this response, 
Mr D brought S and Ss complaint to our service.
On 1 December 2020, when Barclays completed their review of the account, S and S 
regained access to its account, including the full £20,000 which had been granted under the 
BBL Scheme. 
Our investigator who reviewed the complaint didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. 
He thought Barclays were entitled to review the account in line with their terms and 
conditions and didnt think theyd caused any unnecessary delays.
Mr D didnt agree. Mr D, on S and Ss behalf said that, while he understands Barclays may 
be able to freeze accounts, their communication about it wasnt acceptable. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything differently. I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr D, but Ive explained my reasons below.
Barclays are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Barclays were acting in line 
with these obligations when reviewing and blocking S and Ss account.
I recognise how frustrating it must have been for S and S to be unable to use its account. 
And I appreciate this would have put it in a financially challenging position because it didnt 
have access to its funds. But a bank cant always guarantee that funds in an account will be 
readily available as they have broader regulatory obligations with which they have to comply. 
Barclays havent told S and S why its account was blocked or reviewed. But Barclays arent 
obliged to share the reasons with S and S. This service wont generally intervene in a banks 
commercial discretion when reviewing and subsequently blocking accounts, but Id like to 
reassure S and S that based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Barclays actions were 
appropriate in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I dont doubt the length of the delay would have made things difficult for S and S especially 
as it would have found it difficult to continue trading during the time it was without access to 
its account. But I havent seen any evidence of Barclays causing unnecessary delays so I 
cant fairly uphold the complaint on this part. Im pleased S and S now has full access to its 
account.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays were entitled to take the actions they did, so Im not going to 
ask them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S and S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman