DRN-1309950
 
The complaint
Mr M (on behalf of Company R) has complained about Trade Direct Insurance Services Ltd. 
He isnt happy that it wouldnt pay his full claim following the theft of his tools under his van 
insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr M took out his insurance through his broker (Trade Direct) in September 2017 for his van. 
At that time he didnt pay for additional cover for his tools. But when the policy renewed in 
September 2018 his broker accidentally said he had cover for his tools when he hadnt paid 
for this.
Unfortunately, Mr Ms van was broken into and his tools were stolen. But when he made a 
claim to his insurer it said he didnt have cover for the theft of his tools. Trade Direct realised 
it had made a mistake at the time of renewal in September 2018 and said it would pay 
£1,000 towards the cost of Mr Ms tools. This was because it had said Mr M had this level of 
cover accidently.
But Mr M complained. He was of the view that the policy said he had unlimited cover for his 
tools and said he would have got insured elsewhere if he realised he wasnt covered for the 
full £7,000 loss. And as Trade Direct wouldnt change its position he complained to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought Trade 
Direct had acted reasonably in offering to pay £1,000. This was because he was satisfied 
Trade Direct had made it clear in its covering letter that the maximum Mr M was covered for 
was £1,000.
As Mr M didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I know Mr M feels he had unlimited cover in place and says he bought the policy in good 
faith. He says he read the policy when it first arrived to ensure he had cover in place. And he 
feels Trade Direct cant just decide what level of cover it wants to provide now, but that isnt 
what it has done.
When Mr M took out his cover in September 2017 he didnt have additional cover for his 
tools and I presume he was aware of that. But when his policy came up for renewal Trade 
Direct said he did have cover for his tools, mistakenly. Ive looked at the policy documentation provided and I agree that the level of cover isnt as 
clear as it should be. And I can understand why Mr M feels his full loss should be covered. 
Mr M says he looked at his policy to ensure he had cover, but the first thing he would have 
seen is the covering letter which clearly outlines he had tool cover up to £1,000. While the 
policy documentation provided doesnt define a total amount insured and just has a pound 
sign. But given cover for his tools was now important to Mr M, at the time of renewal but not 
when he took the policy out initially, I would have expected him to query the level of cover 
with Trade Direct at that point in time. I say this as the covering letter gives a clear summary 
of cover while the policy document doesnt. So it would be logical to check rather than to 
presume the covering letter (which was very clear) was inaccurate in some way, especially 
as Mr M didnt have tool cover the year before. 
So, as Mr M didnt pay for cover for his tools; the covering renewal letter makes it very clear 
that his tools were only insured up to £1,000; and Trade Direct is paying this itself (as 
opposed to the insurer) I cant say it has acted unreasonably here. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman