DRN-3749517
The complaint
Mr O complains that Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMFL) irresponsibly granted him a 
hire purchase agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
Mr O is represented by a family member but for ease of reference I have referred to Mr O 
throughout this decision.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr O acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
SMFL. A deposit of £750 was paid and Mr O was required to make 59 monthly repayments 
of around £383. The total repayable under the agreement was around £23,766.
Mr O says that SMFL didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says he was initially 
refused finance but then contacted to say that finance was available. He says he told the 
dealer his income fluctuated and says that if adequate checks taken place SMFL would have 
seen the agreement wasnt affordable. SMFL didnt agree. It said that it carried out a 
thorough assessment which included asking Mr O for personal details and credit information. 
It said using the information provided relevant credit checks took place to assess Mr Os 
credit worthiness and based on the results his application was approved. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought SMFL ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr O.
SMFL didnt respond to our investigators view and so this case has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SMFL will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
SMFL says that it carried out credit checks to assess Mr Os credit worthiness. However, it 
hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed. Ive therefore relied on a copy of the 
credit file supplied by Mr O. While the report provided is from August 2022, I think this gives 
a good indication of what SMFL would likely have seen. At the time of the application it 
shows that Mr O has defaulted on two credit card accounts four months earlier (total default 
amount around was £11,000). He also had other credit card accounts and a loan 
outstanding. He did have another hire purchase agreement, but it appears this was settled 
as part of this agreement. I think the defaulted accounts ought to have indicated that Mr O 
was likely to be struggling financially. It therefore would have been proportionate for SMFL to 
have got a more thorough understanding of Mr Os financial circumstances before lending.
While it appears that SMFL asked Mr O about his income I do not have evidence that it 
carried out any verification before approving the finance. Given the overall size of the 
borrowing, the monthly repayments and the term of the agreement, and noting the 
information in Mr Os credit file, I think it would have been proportionate for SMFL to have 
done so. I also do not have evidence that SMFL ask Mr O about his expenditure. Without 
knowing what Mr Os regular committed expenditure was SMFL wouldnt have got a 
reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didnt 
complete proportionate checks.
I think it would have been proportionate for SMFL to have found out more about Mr Os 
committed expenditure. I cant be sure exactly what SMFL would have found out if it had 
asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place significant 
weight on the information contained in Mr Os bank statements as to what would most likely 
have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These 
show that Mr O was paying a total of around £800 towards his committed living expenditure 
including credit commitments, insurance, subscriptions, interest charges (Mr O was 
operating in his overdraft) and food and travel costs. If Mr Os income had been verified this 
would have been seen to fluctuate over the three months leading up to the agreement with 
an average monthly income of around £840. While I note this average income figure 
includes a low amount for December, Mr O says he explained his income fluctuated and 
given the term of the agreement, SMFL needed to ensure that Mr O would be able to make 
his monthly repayments for the duration. Based on these amounts, Mr O didnt have enough 
disposable income to afford the additional borrowing. SMFL therefore didnt act fairly by 
approving the finance.
Putting things right
As I dont think SMFL ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore refund all the 
payments Mr O has made, including any deposit. However, Mr O did have use of the car for 
around eight months, so I think its fair he pays for that use. But Im not persuaded that 
monthly repayments of around £383 are a fair reflection of what fair usage would be. This is 
because a proportion of those repayments went towards repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, 
Mr Os likely overall usage of the car and what his costs to stay mobile would likely have 
been if he didnt have the car. In doing so, I think a fair amount Mr O should pay is £200 for 
each month he had use of the car. This means SMFL can only ask him to repay a total of 
£1,600. Anything Mr O has paid in excess of this amount should be treated as an 
overpayment. 
To settle Mr Os complaint SMFL should do the following:
End the agreement.
Refund all the payments Mr O has made, less £1,600 for fair usage. 
oIf Mr O has paid more than the fair usage figure, SMFL should refund any 
overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;
oIf Mr O has paid less than the fair usage figure, SMFL should arrange an 
affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Once SMFL has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Mr Os credit file regarding the agreement.*HM Revenue & Customs requires SMFL to take off tax from this interest. SMFL must give 
Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr O asks for one.
As SMFL has transferred the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the 
debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is carried out 
promptly. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Specialist Motor Finance Limited to put things right in the 
manner set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman