DRN-3536693
The complaint
Miss E complains Funding Circle Ltd failed to complete sufficient due diligence before 
allowing her to invest into a peer-to-peer lending opportunity. She also says it failed to 
complete ongoing management of the loan once in payment, meaning it failed to act on 
fraudulent activity by the borrower - and this has resulted in her suffering a financial loss.
What happened
Miss E holds a crowdfunding account on Funding Circles peer-to-peer (P2P) lending 
platform. It is an automated account where loan parts are bought and sold on behalf of Miss 
E based on a set criteria  including risk profile. Miss Es account had a balanced risk profile 
 meaning she could be allocated loans across the full range of risk bands (A+ to E rated 
loans).
The loan subject to the complaint was first accepted on Funding Circles platform in June 
2018. In November 2018, Mrs E was allocated the loan into her account. The borrower 
successfully made loan repayments for around a year. In January 2020, after 90 days 
without a payment, the loan went into default and Funding Circle started proceedings to 
recover funds. It sold the debt to a third party and Miss E received a final recovery payment 
in June 2021.
In July 2021, Miss E complained to Funding Circle as she didnt think Funding Circle had 
fulfilled its obligations when allocating the loan to her or in its management afterwards. 
Funding Circle didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said that it conducts stringent due 
diligence on all of its borrowers before offering a loan, however, unforeseen circumstances 
can occur, meaning that loans may experience financial difficulties. In instances where it 
discovers any fraudulent activity, it ensures this is reported to the appropriate parties. It 
acted appropriately when trying to recover funds. It said it went to great lengths to attempt 
the recovery of the outstanding debt and the loan facility was vigorously managed internally 
by its recoveries and legal teams. 
Miss E didnt accept the response, so referred her to complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
One of investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt uphold it - in summary he said:
- He obtained the financial information and the accounts Funding Circle obtained from 
the borrower in order to carry out its due diligence. He was satisfied that there was 
nothing within the financial documentation which would indicate that there were any 
issues with the borrower or that it was inappropriate for the loan to be acquired on 
Miss Es account. He didnt think Funding Circle acted outside of how it described the 
function of the account.
- He noted Miss Es concerns that the accounts Funding Circle obtained were 
fraudulent. But the accounts Miss E referred to were for the year ending 30 
November 2017, which were filed on 11 June 2018. The loan application was made 
on 3 May 2018 and when the due diligence was completed, accounts for year ending 
30 November 2017 hadnt been filed. So, Funding Circle used the most recent ones 
that had been filed. He found Funding Circles approach to be reasonable. 
- He didnt find any evidence which would persuade him that at the point Funding 
Circle carried out its due diligence it was aware that there were any issues with the 
information it had obtained from the borrower.
Miss E didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. In summary, she said:
- The investigator has concentrated on due diligence when her complaint is more 
about ongoing management. Funding Circle didnt check or keep investors informed 
after the loan commenced. 
- An event of default can occur whilst the borrower is still paying. 
Funding Circle didnt verify the purpose of the loan or undertake a basic plausibility 
check. The loan wasnt used for the purpose stated, but Funding Circle didnt keep 
investors appraised of the situation despite the terms and conditions saying it would 
be maintaining a watch on businesses for such defaults.
- She doesnt believe the loan was correctly risk rated. She is concerned about the 
claims that Funding Circle make about how they interrogate financial data before 
issuing a loan. She doesnt believe the accounts stack up with the Delphi score used 
to credit assess the loan. 
The investigator provided a further response to Miss E covering the points she made. He 
said:
- With regards to the concerns about ongoing loan management, he didnt find 
evidence to suggest Funding Circle provided an obligation that it would continue to 
monitor the loan in order to check what the funds were being used for. 
- He noted Funding Circle said it doesnt fund the loan based on the loan purpose or 
associated financial projections that demonstrated an increase in revenue from the 
business purchase. But rather it provides the borrower with the loan based on its 
credit risk assessment which analyses the companys historical financial performance 
and the shareholders' credit history in combination with Funding Circles data from 
more than 10 years of exclusively lending to SMEs.
- Funding Circle is under no obligation to demand immediate repayment if one of the 
default events occur. The terms and conditions of Miss Es account say recovery 
actions are completely at Funding Circles discretion.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Es complaint concerns both the due diligence Funding Circle undertook before 
allocating a loan to her crowdfunding account and the subsequent management of the loan. 
She believes failings in the due diligence led to her being allocated a loan that she shouldnt 
have. She also believes failings in the management of the loan once it was in payment 
contributed to the losses she has suffered. 
In reaching my decision, Ive reviewed Funding Circles terms and conditions for investors 
and the investor guide Miss E provided. Amongst other things these explain how loan 
applications are assessed and the basis for loans being allocated to Miss Es account. 
Ive also taken into account the wider regulatory obligations on Funding Circle. Funding 
Circle is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to follow are set out in the FCAs 
Handbook of rules and guidance. 
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in 
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The 
most relevant principles here are: 
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly. 
Funding Circle was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are: 
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client. 
And Ive borne in mind that the FCAs consultation papers on loan-based (peer-to-peer) and 
investment-based crowdfunding platforms  including the references to the due diligence 
expectations placed on platforms. 
Its clear Miss E has very strong feelings about how Funding Circle has dealt with this loan 
and she has raised several complaint points. Ive read and considered all of the concerns 
she has raised. However, I trust she wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider 
to be the central issues, and that theyre expressed in less detail, as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
The loan subject to this complaint was added to Miss Es account as part of the automated 
loan allocation process. This means she didnt select the loan after reviewing a promotion  
so Im not considering whether she was provided with misleading information before 
deciding whether to invest. But rather whether Funding Circle acted in her best interests by 
allowing the loan to be available for allocation to her based on the selected investment 
criteria for her account. 
As previously mentioned, Miss Es account followed a balanced lending option. This option 
provided a higher return than the conservative lending option. The trade-off for this was a 
higher risk of losing funds. Funding Circle described this option as having a higher projected 
return, with a higher estimated bad debt rate. It also meant Miss Es funds would be used to 
lend to the full range of creditworthy businesses to build a balanced portfolio. The investor 
guide Miss E has provided also makes it clear that the lending process involved an 
assessment of borrower applications and their creditworthiness  with those successful 
being assigned a risk band. This guide sets out how Funding Circle seek to reduce the risk 
of bed debt. It describes three methods it uses. A policy criteria to assess eligibility  which 
covers thing like trading history, formally prepared accounts etc. It uses credit models to 
assess the creditworthiness of borrowers, which is used to give the risk band. Finally, it uses 
the expertise of its credit assessment team to make an overall judgement before approving a 
loan. 
I acknowledge Miss E has raised a number of points that she believes means the application 
should either not have been accepted, risk rated a different band or should have led to 
Funding Circle taking action against the borrower sooner once it was in payment. Im 
satisfied that Funding Circle did follow the approach it said it would before accepting this 
borrowers application and therefore allowing it to be allocated to Miss E. I also havent found that there is evidence it should have taken different actions after the loan was in payment. I 
will explain why Ive come to this conclusion. 
Miss E has raised concerns about the financial data Funding Circle used before accepting 
the loan and that it failed to take action after the loan started. She has referred to information 
she found on Companies House and the financial information Funding Circle displayed on its 
website about the borrower. Miss E says she has found discrepancies and falsifications in 
the borrowers accounts, which show the borrower lied when applying for loan.
Funding Circle say when it assesses a business for a loan, a number of factors are taken 
into account and not just based on their filed financials or management accounts that have 
been provided. For this loan, it obtained the most up to date accounts (at time of application) 
and completed a credit assessment using a variety of external sources to gather data. It also 
says the application went through a set of fraud assessments  and this didnt identify 
anything that would suggest there were concerns of a fraud risk.
Ive looked at the accounts Funding Circle obtained for the borrower. Ive also considered 
the information it has provided about its approach to credit checking and fraud. I think it was 
reasonable for Funding Circle to rely on the accounts that were provided (i.e. the 2017 filed 
accounts). It follows that I dont think that these would have alerted Funding Circle to find 
reason to decline the application. Im also conscious this wasnt the only financial information 
it relied on when assessing the application. So overall, I dont think I can fairly say Funding 
Circle failed in the way it competed due diligence on the borrowers financial position at the 
time of application. 
Miss E has raised concerns about the risk banding of the loan. As explained, Funding Circle 
uses its creditworthiness checks to assign risk bands to loans. The fact a loan has failed 
doesnt mean the risk band assigned was incorrect. I do acknowledge Miss Es concerns 
that this particular loan should have had a higher band than the band B it was assigned. 
From what Ive seen, I cant say Funding Circle has clearly made an error in this respect. But 
ultimately, I dont think it makes a difference to whether the loan would have been assigned 
to Miss Es account. I say this because the balanced lending approach she selected allowed 
for all risk bands to be accepted. So even if this loan had been given a higher risk banding, it 
would likely have still resulted in Miss E being allocated the loan. 
Miss E has also raised concerns in relation to the due diligence Funding Circle completed 
regarding the purpose of the loan. She raises concerns that the loan wasnt used for the 
purpose stated on Funding Circles website. I think it is worth noting, I havent seen 
information which determines this assumption is correct.  Funding Circle says it checks the 
loan purpose is not a use it doesnt accept and also the purpose is consistent with the nature 
of the business. It says the borrower for this loan satisfied both of these checks. As Miss E 
didnt self-select this loan, Im satisfied it cant be said she relied on the information she now 
highlights about the purpose of the loan before investing. Ive considered the information 
Miss E has referred to in the FCAs consultation paper. I acknowledge the points she makes 
in relation to this loan. In my view this guidance is more relevant when a consumer has been 
enticed into a loan because of the information in a promotion. I say this because there is a 
heightened need to ensure claims in the promotion are clear to allow investors to make an 
informed choice before making an investment decision. But with this loan, it cant be said 
Miss E has suffered detriment because she relied on information about the purpose of the 
loan to invest. Funding Circle has explained it assigns loans based on creditworthiness and 
the allocated risk band. Meaning the risk considerations were based around ability to repay 
loan  this is supported by the information in the investor guide that Miss E has referred to.  
So, in this situation the specific loan purpose doesnt play a significant part of the basis for 
how loans were selected for accounts. For this reason, I havent found reason to say failings 
by Funding Circle have led to Miss E being assigned a loan she shouldnt have been.  Miss E believes she has identified fraudulent activity by the borrower, but Funding Circle 
says it is not aware of any fraudulent activity.  Miss E says she believes the loan was applied 
for using fraudulent information. She says Funding Circle should have reported this to the 
relevant authorities. Funding Circle has explained that it found no breaches in the application 
process. Part of this process included obtaining identification documents verified by a 
solicitor and proof address for the personal guarantor, as well as confirming there were no 
CIFAS warnings on the credit report it obtained for them. Miss E also says Funding Circle 
didnt check or keep investors informed after the loan commenced and once the loan was in 
payment Funding Circle failed to pick up on fraudulent activity. 
Its not my role to determine if there has been any fraudulent activity, rather its to determine 
whether Funding Circle has acted fairly and having done so Im satisfied it has. As explained 
above, I found it was reasonable for Funding Circle to rely on the information it collated 
before accepting the loan. Ive also not found that Funding Circle had the monitoring 
responsibility Miss E describes. I dont think it is reasonable to say it needed to repeat its 
due diligence after the loan was accepted. From the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Funding 
Circle had an awareness of fraudulent activity that it failed to act on after the loan was in 
payment. 
Miss E has referred to terms and conditions that list the events of default. She highlights that 
it is possible for an event of default to occur when a loan is being repaid. As explained 
above, Funding Circle says it wasnt aware of any fraudulent activity, which meant the loan 
should have been defaulted sooner. But it also says it was at its discretion on whether to 
default a loan. I accept the terms do provide Funding Circle with discretion on what action it 
should take  but it did still need to be acting its customers best interests (so it had 
responsibilities towards both investors and borrowers). The fact the loan was defaulted a 
year afterwards, and only when payments stopped being made  doesnt in itself indicate 
that Funding Circle and managed the loan incorrectly. I havent identified Funding Circle 
treated Miss E unfairly or failed to act in her best interests by not defaulting the loan sooner. 
In conclusion, I havent found that failings by Funding Circle are the cause of the losses Miss 
E has experienced on this loan. The nature of investing in P2P agreements through a 
crowdfunding platform means there is an inherent risk of capital losses and not all interest 
being paid. While, I appreciate Miss E will disappointed with the outcome, I havent found 
reason to uphold the complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman