DRN-3280711
The complaint
Mr D complains that NewDay Ltd refuses to refund a payment he made to a fraudulent 
binary options scammer.
 
What happened
Mr D was introduced to a company Ill call S by a friend who was working with them and 
earning large profits. His friend passed Mr Ds details to an account manager at S and they 
called him and sold an investment opportunity to him. 
He opened his trading account and funded investments via another bank (Bank A) and was 
contacted and pressured on a daily basis to invest more. He had already invested all of his 
available savings with Bank A along with his available credit with them and was encouraged 
by S to use other available credit sources to finance further investments. The account 
manager emailed and called Mr D on 26 January 2018 and sold him the opportunity to invest 
further using his NewDay Mastercard credit card, which he did and paid £2,124.69 on the 
same day. He incurred a transaction fee of £62.68. 
Mr D was making profits whilst he was making deposits onto his trading platform but became 
concerned when he and his friend lost everything on their trading platforms with S. He 
complained to S who offered to settle his complaint by paying $2,000 to his credit card 
account or crediting £30,000 to his trading account  which would be subject to their terms. 
Mr D insisted on his money back in full based on the promises of his account manager and S 
declined. At this point, after carrying out further research, Mr D concluded that S didnt offer 
him a real trading account and instead provided him with a video game/simulation and 
tricked him into believing he was earning a profit for the purpose of stealing his money. 
Mr D approached NewDay and Bank A to assist him with recovering his payments. NewDay 
explained Mastercards rules didnt cover payments for investments or gambling. Bank A 
successfully recovered the payments Mr D made with his Bank A accounts. 
Unhappy with NewDays response, Mr D referred his complaint to this office. NewDay sent 
this office its business file reiterating its previous stance that chargeback didnt apply to the 
transaction. But noted Mr D was given incorrect information when his chargeback claim was 
declined. It said it should have told him his chargeback request was made outside the time 
limits and made an offer of £60 compensation by way of an apology. 
One of our Investigators reviewed Mr Ds complaint. He concluded first of all that S had 
operated a scam binary options trading platform. He felt Mr D had a valid section 75 claim 
under misrepresentation and breach of contract and suggested NewDay returns his money 
plus the transaction fee. Mr D accepted but despite multiple chasers from our Investigator, 
NewDay to date, has still not provided a response.
 
So the case has been passed to me for determination and Ive made my decision on the 
evidence that has been made available to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Ive first considered that Mr D had no valid chargeback rights because he contacted NewDay 
outside the applicable Mastercard chargeback time limits. 
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ds complaint on the 
basis that NewDay is liable to her under s.75. As a starting point, its useful to set out what 
the Act actually says: 
75(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
a) under a non-commercial agreement, 
b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
To summarise there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction; 
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000
Ill deal with each requirement or exclusion in turn. First, there doesnt seem to be any 
dispute that a credit card account is a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement under the 
Act. And, Im satisfied here there is nothing that breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain  
insomuch and whilst there are three parties involved in each of the payments:
1. Mr D (the debtor)
2. NewDay (the creditor); 
3. S (the supplier)  as shown on Mr Ds NewDay statement and correspondence. 
The second consideration is whether the transaction is financed by the agreement. 
Transaction isnt defined by the Act, but it has generally been given a wide interpretation by 
the courts  to include whatever bilateral exchanges may be part of a deal. Here, Mr D has 
deposited funds in exchange for being able to fund an investment on an investment platform 
and being able to withdraw them as and when he wished. Given the exchange of money in 
return for certain contractual promises  Im satisfied there was a transaction for the deposit 
(which Ill call the deposit-transaction) as defined by the Act. 
Again to finance is not defined under the Act. An ordinary definition would be to provide 
funds to do something. In Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB Bank plc [2004] Miss Justice 
Gloster said in a passage with which the Court of Appeal agreed The phrase to finance 
approaching the matter in a common sense way must mean provide financial accommodation in respect of A credit card issuer clearly provides financial 
accommodation to its cardholder, in relation to her purchases from suppliers, because he is 
given time to pay for her purchase under the terms of the credit card agreement.  
Applying that ordinary definition here, if Mr D had not used his credit card he would have had 
to find the cash from his own resources to fund the deposit transaction and obtain the 
investment this supposedly entitled him to. So, its clear that the deposit-transaction was 
financed by the agreement. 
Third, the claim must relate to the transaction. Its important to consider what Mr Ds claim is 
here. Its evident from his testimony and correspondence he provided that he feels he was 
tricked into depositing the payments with S for the dual purpose of:
a) Stealing the deposit money; and
b) Encouraging Mr D to deposit larger amounts. 
Mr D does not believe that S was operating legitimately and believes he was misled into 
thinking they were.
This claim  that Mr D was misled into depositing funds is clearly a claim in relation to the 
deposit-transaction. The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach of contract.  
In this case, if Mr D was told by S matters that were factually untrue in order to trick him into 
entering into the deposit-transaction, his claim would be for misrepresentation. Or, if S made 
binding promises to him as part of that transaction and went on to breach these that would 
make his claim one for breach of contract.  
Finally, the claim mustnt relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash price 
of less than £100 or more than £30,000. Here, the cash price of the deposit-transaction is 
the value of that deposit-transaction. It is both the consideration and subject matter of the 
contract. 
NewDay has declined Mr Ds claim on the basis of chargeback. It said, the deposits were not 
for the purchase of goods/services, they were a credit to his trading account. I take this to 
mean that the deposits were nothing more than transferring money onto another account, 
opened for the purpose of speculating with the money, rather than being a payment that was 
used to purchase goods. 
When funds are deposited onto a trading account this isnt necessarily just a transfer of 
money between accounts, it may also have been paid in return for something. In this case S 
has made contractual promises in exchange for the deposit-transaction. NewDay in its 
refusal to accept liability under s.75 havent quoted the Act itself. It is important to note that 
s.75 doesnt use the term purchase of goods or services nor is there anything within the Act 
that would exclude the present type of transaction.  
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that s.75 does apply to the credit card deposit-
transaction. 
Ill therefore go on to consider whether Mr D has a valid claim for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
I consider Mr D has made a claim of misrepresentation by S  that claim being that they 
represented to him that they were a legitimate enterprise when this was not the case.For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful its necessary to show not just a false 
statement of fact but also that the statement induced Mr D into entering into an agreement. 
A false statement of fact
If Im satisfied that S was not likely to be operating a legitimate enterprise - one in which Mr 
D could have ever received back more money than he deposited, then it follows that any 
statements made by S to the contrary are likely to be a misrepresentation.
So, the mere suggestion that Mr D could make money from the platform is likely to suffice as 
entailing, by necessary implication, a statement of fact by the merchant that it operated a 
legitimate business, i.e. a legitimate trading platform on which investors could profitably 
trade. And, Im satisfied that based on Mr Ds account of events, the nature of the situation 
and Mr Ds communication with S that they did claim that Mr D could have made money from 
the trading platform. 
That induced him into entering the agreement
Again, had Mr D known that the trading platform was essentially a scam designed to relieve 
investors of their money, rather than a legitimate service, theres really little question of his 
not investing with S. Consequently, should I be satisfied that S isnt operating a legitimate 
enterprise then inducement will also be demonstrated.
Was the merchant operating a legitimate enterprise?
Before discussing this in more detail, I should mention that Ive found Mr D account of 
events both detailed and compelling. But more than this, its corroborated not just by other 
complaints of this nature but specific complaints against this particular merchant. Because of 
this Im minded to find her account to be truthful.
So, turning to his account, I note that he mentioned coming into contact with S after his 
friend recommended their services. Mr D says S promised him large returns with a dedicated 
account manager who would guide him through his trades. When he was complying with S 
requests to fund the trading account, he was earning profits but when he used all of his 
savings and available credit, the account balance was wiped out. S assured him that he 
would only earn profits and would be able to withdraw his capital. But these representations 
happened mostly over the phone whilst S was asking for further money to be credited to his 
trading account. 
Ive seen from S to Mr D on the day he paid them using his NewDay credit card. Mr D said S 
sold him the opportunity to invest and earn larger profits and he agreed to pay them. 
Theres a body of external information available through various regulators, law enforcement 
agencies, government agencies, press cuttings and the card schemes that repeat the tactics 
used by S. Which does lead me to seriously question whether any actual trades were being 
placed on the outcomes of financial markets or whether in fact S offered little more than a 
video game or simulation as highlighted by Mr D.
Ive noted the following: 
S was not regulated with the FCA (as required) at the time they offered their services 
to Mr D  or any other jurisdiction as far as Im reasonably aware. A legitimate 
investment company would tend to comply with the regulatory requirements. The FCA published a warning about S on 5 February 2018 (prior to Mr Ds NewDay 
Mastercard credit card payment). 
The FCA uploaded its warning about S on the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions Investor Alerts Portal on 5 February 2018. 
S is no longer operating and has not operated for some time. There are also several online 
reviews from victims that share very similar experiences to that of Mr D. 
I would also question the legitimacy of any investment broker pressuring consumers into 
using credit - as S did here - to invest in products that could lose money. 
Next, is the wiping out of Mr Ds account balances after hed invested all his available 
savings and credit - again a point repeated across many complaints against similar firms. If I 
find that S was not operating a legitimate enterprise, it makes no material difference that Mr 
D lost his available balances as it would not have been S intention to enable Mr D to profit 
from his deposit-transaction. I find it odd that after Mr D lost his available balances, he was 
offered a credit of £30,000 onto his trading account. If Mr D had lost money to genuine 
trades, it is certainly a strange offer to make. S made the point of stating their terms would 
be attached to this credit and I have no doubt that the terms would have meant that Mr D 
would not have been able to withdraw this credit.
  
Taking all of this together, I dont think its likely S was operating a legitimate enterprise. This 
means that I think they have made misrepresentations to Mr D  specifically that they were 
running a genuine enterprise through which he could ever have got back more than his 
deposit from the platform. Im also satisfied that if Mr D had known this, he wouldnt have 
deposited any money, which includes the NewDay deposit-transaction, so he was induced 
into the contract on the basis of these misrepresentations.
What damage was caused by the misrepresentation 
The legal test for consequential loss in misrepresentation, where a person has been 
fraudulently induced to enter into a transaction, he is entitled to recover from the wrongdoer 
all the damage directly flowing from the transaction: Smith New Court Securities v 
Scrimgeour Vickers (Asset Management) [1997] AC 254. This implies two hurdles that must 
be surmounted before any item of loss becomes recoverable from the wrongdoer:
a) The loss would not have been suffered if the relevant transaction had not been 
entered into between the parties. This is the factual but for test for causation.
And
b) The loss must be the direct consequence of that transaction (whether or not it was 
foreseeable) or be the foreseeable consequence of the transaction. 
Transaction fee
The transaction fee linked to the deposit-transaction is somewhat straight forward to cover 
off. Had the deposit-transaction not have occurred the transaction fee couldnt have 
occurred. The transaction fee was a direct consequence of the deposit-transaction. 
As the payment was made outside of the UK, its foreseeable that a bank used by Mr D to 
make the deposit would attach a fee for converting the payment. So, Im satisfied Mr Ds 
payment of the transaction fee was consequential loss in misrepresentation. 
Breach of contract Here, Mr D has deposited funds in exchange for being able to use those funds on an 
investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when he wished. Given the 
exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  Im satisfied there was a 
transaction (the deposit-transaction) as defined by s.75.
It follows, I think, that S had contractual obligations:
a) To enable Mr D to use the funds from his deposit-transaction on an investment 
platform;
and 
b) To enable Mr D to withdraw the funds deposited as and when he wished.
Mr D lost the funds in his trading account. 
Unlike our Investigator, I do not agree that a breach of contract has occurred. Whilst this 
differs to our Investigators initial opinion, it makes no material difference to the outcome 
because I agree with our Investigator that a claim for misrepresentation is the most 
appropriate in this instance. 
I think NewDays offer of £60 compensation for incorrect information is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances and I make no further award on this point.
 
Putting things right
Ive established one ground Mr D could have recovered his deposit-transaction:
Misrepresentation: Im satisfied Mr D has a claim for misrepresentation on the 
grounds that S made a series of misrepresentations, namely that they were operating 
a legitimate enterprise and that Mr D could earn a profit from his deposit-transaction. 
Im also satisfied that the deposit-transaction fee meets the test for consequential 
loss in misrepresentation as it wouldnt have been incurred but for the deposit-
transaction. It was also a direct and foreseeable loss as a result of the deposit-
transaction. 
NewDay should put Mr D back into the position he would have been had the deposit-
transaction of £2,124.69 had not been entered into and a transaction fee of £62.68 had not 
been charged by NewDay. So, he should receive refunds of these amounts, less any 
amounts credited to his NewDay Mastercard credit card by S.
My final decision
My final decision is that NewDay Ltd should refund Mr D the deposit-transaction and 
transaction fee plus interest. It should:
Refund the deposit-transaction, less any amounts credited to his NewDay credit card 
account by S; 
Refund the transaction fee; 
Pay 8% interest on those sums from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement.
Pay £60 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
If NewDay deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should 
provide Mr D with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman