DRN-2936007
The complaint
Mr C complains that Moneybarn Limited (Moneybarn) took too long to process his finance 
application. He says that as a result he lost out on a scrappage scheme allowance.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I understand that Mr C had explained the importance of processing any finance claim quickly 
to Moneybarn as there was a limited time within which he could benefit from a scrappage 
scheme that would reduce the deposit required on his replacement van.
But Moneybarn had reasonable objections to the finance proposal as they didnt agree with 
the dealerships valuation. Whilst there may have been a suggestion the finance could be 
completed in time I dont think it would be fair to suggest that was the case if there were 
hitches in the application process that were out of Moneybarns direct control. 
Moneybarn apologised for some delays in their process and I think an apology was sufficient 
in the circumstances. But I dont think they had to provide finance in the timescales Mr C 
required of them and Im not therefore asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
