DRN-3995258
The complaint
Miss O has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly by approving 
two accounts for an overdraft, increasing her overdraft limits and continued to apply charges 
to her account when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
In July 2016 Miss O held two accounts with Lloyds. Account ending 6960 had an overdraft 
with a limit of £450 which increased six times over a two year period to £1,350. Account 
ending 2368 was approved for an overdraft in January 2018 with a limit of £150 increasing to 
£450 by October 2018.
Miss O complained to Lloyds that it acted irresponsibly by allowing her an overdraft on her 
two current accounts. Miss O was dis-satisfied with Lloyds response to her complaint so she 
brought her complaint to this service.
Miss Os overdraft was originally approved on account ending 6960 in 2014. But as Lloyds 
havent agreed to us considering Miss Os complaint from this point due to it being referred 
to us too late  being outside the time limits set by the financial services regulator (the 
complaint being brought six years of the event complained about) we have only considered 
the complaint and account activity from July 2016 onwards.
Miss Os complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that Lloyds 
ought to have realised that Miss O was experiencing financial difficulty by 24 February 2017 
when her overdraft limit was increased on her account ending 6960 because she didnt see 
or maintain a credit balance on the account and was using the overdraft to make ends meet. 
They thought Lloyds shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this 
point onwards. And as Miss O was already struggling with this overdraft Lloyds shouldnt 
have approved her for an overdraft on her second account ending 2368 and thought that 
Lloyds should refund all charges on this.
Regarding account ending 6960 Lloyds says that despite Miss O using her overdraft it had 
no concerns with this because regular income was being paid into the account and bringing 
it into a credit balance every month and that there were no signs of financial difficulty. Lloyds 
says Miss O had a lot of non-essential spending on the account and if shed reduced this, 
she couldve avoided entering unarranged overdraft. 
Regarding account ending 2368 Lloyds had already refunded overdraft charges from 3 
October 2018 amounting to £283.49 as it could see Miss O hadnt been using the overdraft 
for short term lending and would further refund charges applied since March 2018 amounting 
to £39.25 and back date the default to reflect this.
Miss Os complaint has now been progressed for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think that Lloyds acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it increased Miss Os 
overdraft limit to £660 on account ending 6960 on 24 February 2017. By this point, it ought 
to have been clear that Miss O was in no position to sustainably repay what she owed within 
a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Miss O was hardcore borrowing. In other words she hadnt seen or maintained 
a credit balance for an extended period of time. Lloyds own literature suggests that 
overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
Miss O was already clearly struggling to manage her existing overdraft limit of £600 with 
Lloyds when it once again agreed to increase her limit a further £60 to £660. A cursory look 
at her statements show she that even after Miss O received monthly incoming credits or 
salary she still wasnt able to bring down the overdraft from the limit she already had and  
often went above her overdraft limit and was struggling to make ends meet and relying on 
her overdraft to make essential payments and fund other borrowing. 
I accept that at times Miss Os statements show some spending on non-essential items but 
the vast majority of this type of spending was after the point at which I think Lloyds shouldve 
stepped in. Lloyds has also raised the fact Miss O couldve used funds from a loan to bring 
down her overdraft. But again, the loan funds were received after the point at which I believe 
Lloyds ought to have known Miss O was struggling with her overdraft. 
And the same can be said for account ending 2368. As Miss O was already struggling with 
the overdraft on her other account, I dont think Lloyds shouldve approved further borrowing 
on this account. 
So I think that Miss Os overdraft usage should have prompted Lloyds to have realised that 
Miss O wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the 
same terms or offered her a further overdraft. As Lloyds didnt react to Miss Os overdraft 
usage and instead increased her limit, offered further lending and continued charging in the 
same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Miss O ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdrafts and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear them. So I think that 
Lloyds didnt treat Miss O fairly and she lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong. And this 
means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Os complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Re-working Miss Os current overdraft balances so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it following the limit increases from 24 February 2017 (for 
account ending 6960) and 18 January 2018 (for account ending 2368) onwards 
are removed. This means that from 24 February 2017 onwards interest can only 
be charged on the first £600 of any overdrawn balance (for account ending 6960). 
And for account ending 2368, all the interest and charges need to be removed. If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Miss O to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Os 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft on 24 February 2017 and 18 
January 2018.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss O along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Os credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Miss O a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Os complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman