DRN-3630146
The complaint
Mr M complains that T.B.I Financial Services Ltd. (TBI) have not treated him fairly when 
attempting to collect debts in his name.
What happened
Mr M had a loan account with a business Ill refer to as B. Mr M fell behind with his payments 
and so B sold the account to TBI. Both B and TBI wrote to Mr M on 1 September to let him 
know the account had now been assigned to TBI and it would be responsible for all 
correspondence and payments due in respect of the account.
TBI say they wrote to Mr M between 1 September 2020 and 24 January 2021, to his last 
known address to try and engage with him about setting up a payment. Mr M says he no 
longer lives at that address. But he contacted TBI by email in July 2021 as he noticed they 
were reporting information about the account on his credit file.
He asked TBI, for information about the debt including who was the original lender, the 
amount owed and also asked them to provide proof of ownership of the debt as well as a 
copy of the original credit agreement.
TBI responded the next day answering his questions and providing him with a copy of the 
online credit agreement from when he had taken the loan as well as a copy of the Notice of 
Assignment (NOA) sent to him previously. They asked him to provide an up-to-date address 
in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Mr M responded to this asking who he could complain to about irresponsible lending should 
he do so with TBI or with B. TBI confirmed he would need to make any complaint of that 
nature against the original lender, B. They also placed a hold on the account for 30 days 
from 2 August 2021 to allow Mr M to make his complaint. 
Mr M then responded saying he would refer to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). TBI 
pointed out to Mr M that the FCA would likely direct him to this service but that he would still 
need to give B a chance to look at the complaint first, in the email they included a link to Bs 
complaints policy to help Mr M.
On 3 September TBI emailed Mr M to ask him if he had raised a complaint with B, as they 
had not had any notification of it. Mr M wrote back saying he didnt think TBI owned the debt 
and that they were acting in a tactical way. He said he wouldnt deal with TBI and would only 
deal with B directly. He asked for TBI to remove their details from his credit file.
TBI emailed Mr M in response and explained they were the legal owners of the debt. In the 
email they said they were committed to working with Mr M to find an affordable way forward 
for him. They also gave him details of debt charities that may be able to advise him. Mr M 
argued that a NOA is not a contract between him and TBI and asked for other evidence to 
show they owned the debt. 
There was no further contact until TBI emailed Mr M on 17 November 2021 asking him to 
complete a financial statement making an offer to pay that was affordable to him. The email 
again referred him to get help from an independent organisation. They also stated that if they 
didnt hear back from Mr M within 14 days, they would proceed with action against him. 
No action was taken but TBI emailed Mr M again on 13 December telling him they had still 
not had any notification from B that he had raised a complaint with it about irresponsible 
lending. Nor had they had any offer of repayment as previously requested. They gave Mr M 
another 7 days to put forward an affordable offer to avoid further action against him.
Mr M replied to this saying he no longer lived at the address TBI held on file so if they 
wanted to take action against him, they should do it by email only. He also stated that he 
does not recognise the debt with TBI while he has an ongoing complaint with B. TBI 
confirmed it couldnt issue proceedings by email as the county court doesnt allow it, and so 
any proceedings would be sent to Mr Ms last known address, as he hadnt given them his 
current one. It reiterated that on confirmation that Mr M had an ongoing complaint with B it 
would place a hold on any action.
On 14 December 2021, Mr M made a formal complaint to TBI at this point. He said he didnt 
feel he had received satisfactory evidence the account was now owned by TBI. He said he 
had no fixed address and had no access to his old address so if TBI were to issue 
proceedings in that way they would likely be successful and so he felt he had no choice but 
to offer to pay £30 per month towards the debt. He said he would send through confirmation 
of the details of his complaint with B. On 15 December he confirmed he had made a direct 
complaint with B on the same day.
TBI issued an interim response, they placed a hold on Mr Ms account as B had informed 
them, they now had Mr Ms complaint. They explained that they had provided all the 
evidence they needed to show they were the legal owners of the account and were therefore 
entitled to arrange collection of the money owing on it. They also reiterated that should they 
issue legal proceedings in the future they have to do it by post and so could only do it to Mr 
Ms last know address, but they would undertake to send all copies to him by email until he 
is in a position to provide them with an up-to-date address. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with this, he didnt think TBI had treated him fairly, or proved that they 
owned the account and so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think this was a complaint that should be upheld. In summary he felt 
that:
TBI had provided evidence to show they were the owner of the account and had a 
legitimate reason to be in contact with Mr M to arrange a repayment plan. 
TBI could make a commercial decision to issue proceedings against Mr M and that it 
wasnt for us to get involved with that as there had been no error on TBIs part.
TBI had placed the account on hold pending the outcome of Mr Ms complaint with B, 
this is as wed expect.
He had seen nothing in TBIs communications to say they had treated Mr M unfairly.
Mr M didnt agree  he didnt feel the investigator had understood his complaint or done a 
good enough investigation. The matter has now been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so 
I must tell Mr M that I wont be upholding his complaint and for broadly the same reasons as 
the investigator, Ill explain.
Its accepted that Mr M took out the original lending from B, the account is his and there is 
money owing on it. Mr M has taken out a separate complaint with B to determine if this loan 
was given to him responsibly or not. I wont be commenting on that in this decision. I will only 
be looking at the actions of TBI.
Mr M doesnt feel that TBI has satisfactorily shown they now own the account, but I disagree. 
I say this because the terms and conditions of the original credit agreement, between Mr M 
and B, which TBI provided him a copy of say:
7.1 we may sell, transfer or assign our rights under this agreement but this will not 
reduce your rights under it. You may not transfer or assign your rights in this 
agreement to anyone.
The rules around this are set out by the FCA and are known as the Consumer Credit 
sourcebook (CONC). CONC says when the rights of a lender (in this case, B) under a 
regulated credit agreement are assigned to a firm (in this case, TBI), that firm must arrange 
for the NOA to be given to the customer as soon as reasonably possible.
B assigned all rights under this credit agreement to TBI on 28 August 2020. TBI has 
provided evidence to show that both TBI and B wrote to Mr M on 1 September 2020 letting 
him know this had happened. In Bs letter it confirms TBI should now be treated as the 
creditor. In TBIs letter it is confirmed that B has sold the account to TBI. I appreciate these 
letters were sent to an address Mr M said he no longer resides at however I can't hold TBI 
responsible for him not receiving these at the time, as he hadn't kept B updated with his 
address details. TBI did sent copies of these with the credit agreement to Mr M by email 
when he requested them in 2021. I'm satisfied TBI has provided enough evidence to show 
they are the owner of the account and have a legitimate reason for contacting Mr M to set up 
a repayment plan.
Mr M doesn't believe TBI has treated him fairly throughout his dealings with them specifically 
when they have said if they issue proceedings, they would do so by post to his last known 
address. 
Mr M has said he has no permanent address and so cannot provide one. TBI have explained 
they have to issue any proceedings by post as its process but would send any copies onto 
Mr M by email, so he was fully aware of what was happening. In the circumstances, I don't 
find this to be a reasonable as TBI are willing to adapt to suit Mr M's current circumstances. 
At the moment there have been no proceedings issued at the account remains on hold, but if 
proceedings are issued in future, I would suggest that TBI make sure it follows any postal 
correspondence up by email to Mr M. 
I've looked at all other correspondence between Mr M and TBI and can't see that TBI have 
treated Mr M unfairly through any of them. Nor do I consider they have harassed him as he 
has suggested, this is because the correspondence I've seen they have been helpful in giving him information how to make a complaint to B, they have signposted him to other 
organisations that may be able to assist him in dealing with financial difficulties. They have 
placed his account on hold to await the outcome his complaint with B. And throughout all 
communication they have maintained that they would like to work with Mr M to find an 
affordable way forward for him. These are all the things I would expect from a business 
dealing with somebody in financial difficulties.
In summary, having considered everything I'm satisfied TBI haven't done anything wrong 
here and so I won't be asking them to anything different.
I understand Mr M's strength of feeling about this situation and no he will be disappointed 
with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying to resolve his dispute with TBI 
can do for him.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman