DRN-3111851
The complaint
Ms T complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has turned down a cancellation 
claim she made on a travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Ms T had arranged a placement trip to a country Ill call A. She was due to travel between 30 
May and 19 July 2020. She took out a Boots Single Platinum MSM policy on 1 March 2020 
to cover her travel dates.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. On 14 March 2020, As government announced it would be closing its borders to 
all travellers from the EU. And on 15 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & 
Development Office (FCDO  formerly the FCO) advised against all but essential travel to A. 
A didnt go on to re-open its border until 8 November 2021.
Ms Ts trip provider cancelled her placement on 17 April 2020. It refunded some of her costs, 
but Ms T was left out of pocket for the remaining balance. So she made a claim on her travel 
insurance policy for the costs associated with cancelling her trip.  
URV turned down Ms Ts claim. It said the circumstances of it werent covered by the 
cancellation section of the policy.
Ms T was unhappy with URVs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought that Ms Ts complaint should be upheld. He accepted that the policy 
didnt cover cancellation due to a change in FCDO advice. But he noted that the policy 
specifically excluded any cover at all if a policyholder travelled against FCDO advice. This 
meant Ms T wouldnt have been covered if shed cancelled and she wouldnt have been 
covered if she travelled. He didnt think the policy terms made the combined effect of these 
terms clear. And he considered that if Ms T had been aware that she wouldnt be covered if 
FCDO guidance changed before she travelled, she wouldve been unlikely to take out the 
policy. So he felt it would be fair for URVs to assess Ms Ts claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
URV disagreed. It said the cancellation section of the policy clearly outlined the cover 
provided. It added that Covid-19 had been an unknown entity when the FCDO section of the 
policy was written, so it didnt think this exclusion could be linked as a reason to provide 
cover.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it was fair for URV to turn down Ms Ts claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines 
Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for 
Business) say: 
 a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to:
  act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its customer; 
 handle claims promptly and fairly. 
ICOBS 6 also requires insurers to give customers appropriate information about a policy in 
good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This is so the customer can make an 
informed decision about the arrangements proposed.
Appropriate information includes the information that must be set out in an IPID, which 
gives customers an at a glance summary of their cover. This includes a summary of the 
insurance cover, including the main risks insured, the insured sum and, where applicable, 
the geographical scope and summary of excluded risks. 
Relevant regulatory guidance (the FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors 
for the Fair Treatment of Customers) says firms should consider the impact of their actions  
or inactions  on the customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being provided. 
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) 
The IPID summarises the cover available. On page 2, it says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region when the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all or all but essential travel.
The policy terms and conditions
Page 7 of the policy sets out a list of the specific events URV covers if a policyholder has to 
cancel their trip. These are:
you, a travelling companion, a family member, a business associate, or the person 
you were going to stay with became ill, was injured or died:
your home was burgled, or seriously damaged by file, storm or flood;
you were called for jury service or required as a witness if a court of law;
you, or a travelling companion were made redundant;
you, or a travelling companion as members of HM Forces have your leave orders 
cancelled.
The introduction to the policy includes Criteria for Purchase  in effect, eligibility criteria 
which apply to the whole policy in order for it to be valid. This says:This insurance will only be valid if, at the time you bought the policy, everyone named on the 
insurance schedule
Are not travelling to an area that is classified as 'Advise against all travel or Advise against 
all but essential travel' by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office at the time of your 
departure.
Was it unreasonable for URV to turn down the claim?
Ms Ts trip was cancelled because the FCDO advised against all but essential travel to the 
destination she was due to travel to. Thats not something that is covered under the terms 
and conditions of the policy as its not a specific or listed insured event. However, taking into 
account the relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair and 
reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean that if Ms T had travelled abroad (in the event 
that it was possible for her to do so), shed have not followed FCDO advice. So, she wouldnt 
have been covered by any of the policy terms and conditions. But, under the terms and 
conditions of the contract, cancellation of a holiday due to changes in FCDO guidance also 
isnt covered by the policy. I dont think that was made sufficiently clear to Ms T.   
Ms T wouldve needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order to understand that 
this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think that this information was brought 
to her attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I dont think the combined effect of 
the policy terms was clearly highlighted to Ms T. 
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Ms T and URV. I 
think its unlikely that Ms T wouldve purchased the policy if shed realised that there was no 
cover under the policy if the FCDO guidance changed after shed bought it. And, as URV 
has pointed out, at the time Ms T bought the policy, she wouldve been able to find cover 
elsewhere which did cover the circumstances she subsequently found herself in. 
It's clear that the situation which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 was unprecedented and 
couldnt have been foreseen by either insurers or policyholders. But for the reasons Ive 
outlined, and in these circumstances, I think the fair and reasonable outcome here is for 
URV to treat Ms Ts claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy. URV must 
therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to treat Ms Ts cancellation claim as covered under the 
cancellation section of the policy and to assess it in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the contract.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman