DRN-3822121
The complaint
Mr K complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 and section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act (the Act) in relation to 
a solar panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr K is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In September 2015, Mr K was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk 
about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Mr K decided to purchase the system and finance it through 
a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In November 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ks behalf under section 75 and section 
140 of the Act to Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr K to enter into the contract with P and made his relationship with Shawbrook 
unfair on him. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The feed-in tariff (FIT) payments and savings on energy bills would cover the monthly 
loan repayments. 
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that felt the claim had been made out of 
time as set out in the Limitation Act, since it was made more than six years after the sale. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our adjudicator said that under section 140 the claim and 
complaint had been made in time (since it was made within six years of the loan agreement 
ending). They didnt think that P had misrepresented the system and that Shawbrook had 
paid no commission to P, so the relationship between Shawbrook and P was unlikely to be 
unfair.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view including for the following reasons:
Mr K says that the salesperson didnt go through the quote in great detail, and he 
wasnt left a copy of it. Had he been aware of the figures he wouldnt have agreed to 
the purchase. 
He expected the benefits to cover the monthly loan repayments. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 140 of the Act. Section 140 
says that a court may make an award where it determines that the relationship between a 
credit or debtor is unfair due to, amongst other things, anything done (or not done) by or on 
behalf of the creditor before or after the making of the agreement. 
Section 56 is relevant because it says that any negotiations between Mr K and P, as the 
supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
This means that the court would take into account a related agreement, in this case the 
contract for the supply and installation of a solar panel system, and the actions of the 
supplier, in this case P.
So, if P misrepresented the system to Mr K, then this could potentially render the relationship 
unfair. For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an 
untrue statement of fact or law made by one party (or its agent) to a second party which 
induces that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr K says that during a sales meeting he was told that the benefits of the system would 
cover the loan repayments.
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with Mr Ks testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to 
decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process, and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Mr K says he wasnt taken through the quote in detail and that he wasnt left with a copy of 
this. But he also said the salesperson was at his house for half a day and that things were 
explained to him with a thick folder with figures and stats, brochures of happy customers, 
this was supported by information on a tablet and laptop. And the quote was signed by Mr 
K. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mr Ks 
version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr K was told that the cost of the system was £9,926.00, that 
the monthly payment was £107.81 and the total amount payable would be £19,405.80. Mr K 
has confirmed he was informed of the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
Mr K has said that he was told the monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and savings. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P 
as well as the Mr Ks recollections of their meeting with Ps representative to decide what is 
most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr K could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
 
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr K could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £424.08, which results in an average monthly income of £35.34. The 
quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr K could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £322.72 and the combined income and savings in 
year one is shown as £724.40. 
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there 
would be a monthly loan repayment due of £107.81, which is £1,293.72. And that the total 
benefits in the first year were only £724.40. So, I think the quote clearly shows that the FIT 
and savings on energy bills would not be sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. 
Theres a section headed System Performance and Returns with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 
months because this is the length of the loan that Mr K entered into with Shawbrook. This 
table shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £106.06. For each year of the 
15-year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that 
figure over 12 months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £106.06, to give an 
average difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan 
repayment in each year. 
 
I think this clearly sets out that the overall benefits Mr K could expect to receive by way of 
FIT income and any additional savings would not be sufficient to cover the monthly loan 
repayments  since it shows a deficit in the first 10 years.  
Ive carefully thought about Mr Ks version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote 
did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the 
meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr K that the system would be self-funding. In doing so Ill 
again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the start. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr K was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by the end of year 18 the overall benefits that 
Mr K could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr K that the system would pay for itself by the 
end of year 18, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr K. I have looked at Mr Ks FIT statements and Im satisfied that 
the system is performing as expected based on the statements provided.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between the sale 
and 2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I 
think this explains why Mr K hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2005 to 2014. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr K couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr K entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr K to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman