DRN-4348631
The complaint
Mr B complains Lendable Ltd lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr B took out a £3,000 loan with Lendable in July 2022, and the total amount he needed to 
repay was just over £5,000. The loan had a term of three years, and the monthly repayments 
were around £145.
In late 2022, Mr B complained to Lendable that his loan was unaffordable, and had they 
carried out sufficient checks, they wouldnt have approved it. Lendable looked into Mr Bs 
concerns and issued their final response. They accepted that on reviewing his application 
data again, they ought to have known the borrowing wouldnt have been sustainable for 
Mr B. To put things right, they offered to:
Freeze all interest and charges indefinitely.
Calculate all interest and charges Mr B had paid so far, and credit that amount to his 
loan account.
Remove any negative markers about the loan from Mr Bs credit file.
Set up an affordable repayment plan for the outstanding balance if Mr B couldnt 
afford the normal monthly payments.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. When doing so he 
explained the loan was unaffordable as he receives a small pension each month, and the 
monthly repayments are no longer affordable because his living expenses have increased.
Our Investigator felt Lendables offer was fair because it was in line with our approach for 
complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending. However, Mr B disagreed with our 
Investigator and said the loan should be written off because he struggled with gambling 
around the time it was taken out. He also reiterated he couldnt afford to repay the £3,000 
capital he borrowed. Mr B believed that as Lendable shouldnt have approved the loan, then 
theyre at fault.
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion because Mr B had used the funds 
he borrowed. As Mr B still disagreed with our Investigator, his complaint was passed to me 
for a final decision.
Given Lendable has already accepted it shouldnt have approved Mr Bs loan, my decision 
will focus on what I consider to be a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint  albeit not as he hoped.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website  including the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. And this is 
what Ive considered when deciding Mr Bs complaint. Having done so, its important that 
I explain in cases like this, when we consider borrowing shouldnt have been approved, our 
usual approach is that the customer isnt made to repay any interest, charges and/or fees 
that may have been applied. However, we would still expect them to repay the capital they 
borrowed because they used the funds.
Mr B has told us about the impact the borrowing has had on him  particularly since the cost-
of-living crisis. But I am glad to hear hes receiving help for his gambling problem. So, I want 
to assure him that I understand he is going through a very difficult time, and Lendables 
mistake has contributed to that. However, I have to balance that alongside the fact he took 
out the loan with the knowledge it had to be repaid. Ive also noted that his own testimony 
has explained the cost-of-living crisis has been a contributing factor to the difficulties hes 
experiencing in maintaining his repayments.
Im aware Mr B believes he shouldnt have been given the loan because he receives a 
pension. However, we wouldnt expect that to be the sole reason for a financial business, 
like Lendable, refuses to lend to someone. If they did so, it could be deemed a form of 
discrimination, and may not be fair for those individuals who could afford the borrowing 
despite receiving a pension. We expect a business to consider a number of things when 
determining whether to approve lending. And in this case, Lendable has already accepted 
they made a mistake when reviewing Mr Bs circumstances when they approved this loan. 
I sympathise with Mr Bs situation, particularly given Lendable ought to have known he may 
have had a problem with gambling because they had sight of his bank statements before 
approving the loan. These showed a high frequency of gambling transactions in the months 
and days leading up to Mr Bs loan application. But given the unprecedented change in the 
wider economic landscape, the impact on Mr Bs financial circumstances has been 
exacerbated. So, this is something Ive had to place weight on when deciding what should 
be done to put things right.
To get a clearer picture of Mr Bs financial circumstances, I have seen copies of his July  
October 2022 bank statements. I appreciate this isnt something Lendable would have been 
able to consider when making its lending decision. But I felt it necessary to review this 
information so that I could have a better understanding of Mr Bs gambling at the time the 
loan was taken out.
The statements have shown me that Mr B continued to gamble after receiving the loan from 
Lendable. In fact, in the same month the £3,000 loan was deposited into Mr Bs account 
(July 2022), he spent around £20,000 on gambling transactions alone  of which just over 
£16,600 took place after the loan was deposited. 
Although the gambling transactions highlight Mr B may have eventually struggled to repay 
the loan, I havent been able to ignore the value of transactions deposited into Mr Bs bank 
account in July 2022. Mr Bs statements showed just over £15,500 of gambling winnings 
were deposited after the loan. 
This evidence clearly indicates that Mr B was going through a difficult time when it came to 
his gambling habit, and further demonstrates why the loan shouldnt have been approved. 
But while its clear the loan helped fuel Mr Bs gambling; I cant ignore the fact the winnings 
paid into his account werent much less than the amount he spent on gambling transactions. 
I also noted that Mr B didnt appear to miss regular payments or utilise an unarranged 
overdraft. In turn, this suggests that while it is clear he was spending a lot on gambling, he 
somewhat did so within his means. With that in mind, I cant safely conclude that it would be fair or reasonable to direct Lendable to write off the loan when I take everything into 
consideration.
When we consider borrowing shouldnt have been approved, we would normally ask a 
business to refund all interest and charges, agree an affordable repayment plan for any 
outstanding balance, and remove any negatives markers (related to the borrowing) from the 
customers credit file once the debt is repaid. Lendable has already offered to do this, and 
I consider that was the right thing to do in the circumstances.
Im aware Mr B has serious concerns about his ability to repay what is left outstanding from 
the £3,000 he borrowed. But when agreeing a repayment plan, our service would expect a 
financial business to treat their customer sympathetically and positively  and this involves 
taking care to consider a consumers realistic ability to repay the debt. So, this is what Id 
expect Lendable to do, and they should ensure Mr B is given sufficient support when 
navigating these conversations. Lendable has confirmed theyre prepared to do that and 
have explained what information theyd need from Mr B if he wants them to consider writing 
off his outstanding balance.
While I am sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr B is continuing to experience, I do consider 
Lendables offer is in line with the award I would have suggested had they not already taken 
steps to put things right. As such, I wont be asking them to do more than theyve already 
offered to resolve Mr Bs complaint.
For the reasons above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about Lendable. But Im aware this 
isnt the outcome he hoped for. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about Lendable Ltd.
To put things right, Lendable Ltd should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. Any 
payments made by Mr B should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If 
the payments Mr Bs made total more than the amount he was originally lent, then 
any surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to him with 8% simple 
annual interest* calculated on the overpayments made from the date they were paid 
by Mr B, to the date the complaint is settled.
If theres an outstanding balance on the loans, then Lendable Ltd should agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr B, bearing in mind the need to treat him positively 
and sympathetically in those discussions, and take account of his current ability to 
repay the loan.
Once the outstanding balance is repaid, any relevant adverse information (related to 
the lending) recorded on Mr Bs credit file should be removed. 
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Lendable Ltd to take off any tax from this interest, 
Lendable Ltd should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted if he 
asks for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman