DRN-3729534
Complaint
Miss B has complained about a loan Lendable Ltd (Lendable) provided to her. She says 
that Lendable provided her with an unaffordable loan.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss B and Lendable had told us. And he thought 
that Lendable hadnt lent irresponsibly. So she didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. Miss B 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Bs complaint.
Lendable needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Lendable needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether  
Miss B could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Lendable provided Miss B with an initial loan for £3,000.00 in March 2020. It had an APR of 
36.8% and was to due be repaid in 35 instalments of around £130 and a final payment of 
around £165, which meant the total amount to be repaid was £4,723.60. 
Lendable says it agreed to Miss Bs application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search 
it carried out on Miss B. The information Miss B provided about her income and expenditure 
showed shed be able to comfortably make the repayments she was committing to. Lendable 
says, in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Miss B has said 
the loan was unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss B and Lendable have said. The first thing for me to 
say is that this was Miss Bs first loan with Lendable. The information provided does suggest 
Miss B was asked to provide details of her income and expenditure and Lendable didnt just 
rely on what it was told. The credit search carried out showed that Miss B had had previous 
difficulties with credit and had defaulted. But this was historic and at the time Miss B had little 
in the way of outstanding debt and what she did have was well relatively managed.
Bearing in mind the amount of the repayments, what the credit search showed and Miss Bs  
lack of any previous lending with Lendable, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lendable to 
rely on the payments being affordable. Indeed, on the face of things, the payments did 
appear to be affordable and there was nothing that called the information gathered into 
question. 
I accept that Miss Bs actual circumstances may not be reflected in the information gathered. 
But bearing in mind what showed in the information gathered, I dont think that there was a 
need for Lendable to obtain the level of information Miss B has suggested it should have 
done. Ultimately, given the circumstances, it was entitled to rely on what Miss B said at the 
time.
Id also add that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances a 
lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Lendable did anything wrong 
in deciding to lend to Miss B - it carried out proportionate checks even though its looks like 
the information it was provided with may not have told the whole story. Lendable reasonably 
relied on this information and given the amount of the repayments involved and its lack of 
previous history with Miss B, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lendable to provide this 
loan.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Miss B. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman