DRN-4066076
The complaint
Miss D complains that Barclays Bank Plc declined her credit card and provided conflicting 
advice about the balance.
What happened
Miss D holds a business credit account and a business credit card with Barclays. The credit 
card was linked to the business account mobile banking app. Miss D used the app to 
transfer sums from her business account to pay the credit card. In December 2022 Miss D 
tried to use the card but the transaction was declined.
Miss D contacted Barclays to find out why the card had been declined. She received 
conflicting information from Barclays agents. Miss D complained to Barclays, but the 
complaint wasnt resolved in the way she wanted so she complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that Barclays had provided unclear and 
conflicting information and poor customer service. The investigator said that Barclays should 
pay compensation of £150 to Miss D.
Miss D didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the calls that took place between Miss D and Barclays. There were several 
calls, each with different agents. Some agents told Miss D that she didnt owe any money on 
the credit card account. Others told Miss D that she owed around £3800. Miss D was also 
advised that the mobile app she was using only showed limited information about the 
balance. On one occasion, when Miss D called telephone banking, the agent gave her a 
different balance to that which was showing on the mobile app.
I can see how Miss D found the conflicting information confusing and frustrating. The agents 
werent able to provide clear information about the account balance, which was poor 
customer service.
I think Barclays shouldve done more to explain how the mobile app worked at the time when 
Miss D started using it. No-one ever explained to Miss D that the app didnt show the total 
balance outstanding on the account. So although Miss D was making payments to clear 
what she thought was the balance, the balance was actually higher, which led to Miss D 
inadvertently building up a significant balance.
When Miss D queried the balance with the agents, some of the agents appeared to find the 
situation confusing and on one occasion Miss D was placed on hold for a long time. One of 
the agents told Miss D that the app was confusing and that it wasnt a good system for 
monitoring the account balance.
Having listened to all the calls, I dont think Miss D was provided with clear information about 
her account. The agents gave conflicting information about whether there was an account 
balance or not.
All of the conflicting information left Miss D not knowing what she owed. And when she did 
find out that the balance was much higher than she thought, this caused her distress. I dont 
think Miss D wouldve accumulated such a large balance if the mobile app had functioned in 
a more customer friendly way.
It isnt the role of this service to tell a bank how an app should work, or how a balance should 
be displayed. However, Miss D was entitled to clear and accurate information, and Im not 
persuaded that Barclays provided this. This was poor customer service and Im of the view 
that Barclays should pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss 
D.
Putting things right
Miss D has used the card to make purchases and theres a balance on the account. 
Because Miss D has had the benefit of what shes spent on the card. I think its fair that she 
should repay this. I understand that Barclays has already waived interest and charges on the 
balance. Going forwards, Barclays should agree an affordable payment plan with Miss D for 
the balance.
Barclays should pay compensation of £150 to Miss D for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Barclays Bank Plc must pay compensation of 
£150 to Miss D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman