DRN-3394747
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
applied, when he handed back a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In July 2016, Mr R entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement to acquire a brand-new 
car. In late March 2020, Mr R applied for a voluntary termination. MBFS accepted this but 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it asked Mr R to store the car until it was able to collect it.   
Mr R says he agreed to this, but he says he incurred charges for storing the car. The car 
was collected on 5 June 2020 by MBFS recovery agents  who Ill refer to as B.
B issued a report on the condition of Mr Rs car when it collected it. It said the following 
damage was outside of fair wear and tear:
1. Left hand front wheel  refurb alloy wheel - £85
2. Left hand rear wheel  refurb alloy wheel - £85
3. Right hand rear wheel  refurb alloy wheel - £85
4. Right hand front wheel  refurb alloy wheel - £85
5. Front bumper  refitting required - £35
Mr R complained to MBFS and said the damage identified was minor and he asked MBFS to 
reimburse him for his storage costs.
In July 2020, MBFS looked into Mr Rs complaint. It said the charges had been applied 
correctly in line with MBFS vehicle return standards (VRS). Mr R disagreed and reiterated 
his complaint. As he was unhappy, he referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but thought the charges were applied fairly in line 
with MBFS VRS and the industry standard - The British Vehicle Rental & Leasing 
Associations (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guidelines. He also said the car was stored at   
Mr Rs garage and no supporting information had been provided to show Mr R incurred a 
cost for storing the car. 
Mr R disagreed and said he was inconvenienced by storing the car for an additional period 
of time. And he said he felt the damage charges should be considered as fair wear and tear.
As Mr R remains in disagreement, his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry guidance. Here, 
relevant guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the trade body, 
the BVRLA. This guidance is generally intended for the return of new cars at the end of the 
first leasing cycle. MBFS arent members of the BVRLA, but Ive considered the BVRLA 
guidelines alongside MBFS VRS.
The VRS are set out in Mr Rs hire purchase agreement and these explain the standards 
that MBFS expected this car to meet on return. When Mr R acquired his car under the hire 
purchase agreement, he agreed to return the car in line with the standards set out in the 
VRS. And he agreed that MBFS would be entitled to charge him for costs of repairs and/or 
refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the consequent reduction in the sale value, as 
compensation. 
Alloy damage
In relation to alloys, the VRS say the following damage is acceptable:
minor scuffing or damage under 25mm to the vehicle alloy or steel rim edge or wheel face.
And the following is not acceptable:
scuff chips and scratches exceeding 25mm.
BVRLA guidance says: 
Dents on wheel rims and wheel trims are not acceptable. 
Scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are 
acceptable.
Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable. 
There should be no rust or corrosion on the alloy wheels.
Ive looked at the photographs provided for each of the alloys where damage was identified 
by B. The photographs provided for all four alloys all show damage and scuffing exceeding 
50mm. This has been measured with a ruler which is shown in each of the photographs. 
In light of this, Im satisfied MBFS is entitled to charge Mr R for the damage to the alloys as it 
falls outside of fair wear and tear.
Bumper
Bs condition report identified that the front bumper was insecure. 
In relation to the bumper and body mouldings, the VRS say the following isnt acceptable:
Discoloured, loose, cracked, distorted, gouged or split bumpers and mouldings that require 
replacement, plastic welding or painting.
Ive looked at the photographs which show the front bumper. These show there is a 
noticeable gap between the bumper and another panel. As the bumper is insecure or loose, I 
think its fair for MBFS to charge Mr R to refit the bumper.
Storage costs
Mr R says as a result of MBFS not collecting the car after it accepted his voluntary 
termination, he had to store the car at his garage. Ive thought about whether MBFS did 
anything wrong when it collected the car on 5 June 2020 and the impact of this to Mr R.
MBFS collection agent, B, was closed between March 2020 and June 2020, as a result of 
the restrictions set out by the government due to Covid-19. Mr Rs car was collected on 5 
June 2020, which was five days after B reopened. I understand that other cars hadnt been 
collected for a period of around three months due to the impact of Covid-19, so this would 
have reasonably caused a backlog and caused a delay in the collection of Mr Rs car. This 
isnt something I think would be fair to hold MBFS responsible for. And Im satisfied MBFS 
arranged collection of the car as soon as it could.
I also acknowledge that Mr R looked after the car for longer than he anticipated. And I 
appreciate it was likely to have caused him some inconvenience as he says he started the car and checked the fluid and tyre pressures daily. Mr R also says he paid for use of the 
garage to store the car. But, Mr R hasnt provided any supporting information to show that he 
incurred a cost for storing the car in the garage. 
So given that the car was only collected late as a result of the restrictions set out by the 
government and B collected it five days after it reopened, I dont think it would be fair for 
MBFS to pay Mr R for storing the car. It follows that I dont think MBFS need to do anything 
to put things right.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman