DRN-1666338
 
The complaint
Mrs I complains that TSB Bank plc unfairly charged her for withdrawing money from her ISA 
account.
Mrs I is being represented by her husband in this complaint, who has made the submissions 
on her behalf. However, for ease of reference, Ill be referring to the submissions made by 
Mrs Is husband as if they were made by Mrs I herself.
What happened
In December 2019 TSB wrote to Mrs I to let her know her two-year Fixed Rate ISA (FRISA) 
was due to end on 8 January 2020. On 1 January 2020 Mrs I went online and transferred 
money from the account to a new three-year FRISA with TSB. She complained soon after 
noticing she had been charged for doing this.
TSB said a withdrawal charge was applied in line with the terms and conditions for the 
account as Mrs I had taken money out of her two-year FRISA before it had matured.
An investigator at our service looked into her complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. 
He said TSBs letter in December made it clear that in order to move the funds to another 
TSB account, Mrs I needed to send back the form included with the letter at least ten days 
before her FRISA ended. As she didnt do this and instead moved money out of the account 
before it had matured, he felt the charge was correctly applied in line with the account terms 
and conditions. 
He also noted that TSB had warned her that a charge would apply when she made the 
transfer online. So he didnt think TSB had done anything wrong.
Mrs I didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached broadly the 
same conclusions as the investigator. Ill explain why.
Id like to start by explaining that I think Mrs I made a genuine mistake here. Considering she 
was only a few days away from her FRISA maturing I dont think it was her intention to do 
something which would mean shed incur a charge. However, in order to uphold Mrs Is 
complaint Id need to be satisfied that TSB acted unfairly. 
TSB provided a copy of the terms and conditions which applied at the time Mrs I took out her 
two-year FRISA. These included terms and conditions for all Cash ISAs as well as 
conditions which apply specifically to FRISAs.The Cash ISA terms and conditions set out how most ISA accounts with TSB, including    
Mrs Is two-year FRISA, operate. Under the heading, Taking money out of your account, it 
explains:
If you have a FRISA, youll pay a charge if you take the money out of your account after 14 
days of opening. You can find details about this charge in the product conditions.
The FRISA conditions go on to explain that a withdrawal charge equivalent to 180 days 
interest on the amount taken out or transferred would apply to two-year FRISAs.
I think TSB made it clear that Mrs I would have interest deducted if she took money out 
before the account matured. And I think it is reasonable to expect a consumer to read the 
terms and conditions of an account that they are investing in, so that they can be sure it best 
meets their needs. So I think she ought to have known a charge would apply.
The FRISA conditions also state that TSB would contact Mrs I at least 30 days before the 
end of the term to ask what shed like to do with the money in the account. TSB has provided 
a copy of the letter it sent Mrs I dated 2 December 2019 to show it did exactly that. The letter 
explained that her FRISA was coming to an end on 8 January 2020 and it let her know what 
to do next:
If you havent told us yet, please fill in the form included with this letter and send it back to 
us. To move your savings into another TSB account, well need to get the form at least ten 
days before your Fixed Rate Cash ISA ends.
The letter also specifically mentioned how to move the money into a new a TSB FRISA:
Its easy to move your money to another Fixed Rate Cash ISA. Just let us know by filling in 
the form included with this letter. We can open a new one on the day your current one ends.
Mrs I accepts she received this letter but thought she was following the instructions when 
she opened up a new three-year FRISA online and transferred money into it from her two-
year FRISA. I understand she felt the letter meant she had to take action quickly, as it 
mentioned getting in touch at least ten days before her FRISA ended. However, Im satisfied 
the letter made it sufficiently clear what Mrs I needed to do. And as she didnt return the form 
to TSB I cant agree that she followed the instructions TSB gave. 
TSB also provided a screenshot to show what information Mrs I would have been given 
when she transferred the money. This shows the following warning would have been given 
to make her aware that charges would apply:
Are you sure you want to take money out of your TSB Cash ISA? If you are taking money 
out of a Fixed Rate Cash ISA withdrawal charges apply, please see your product conditions 
for further detail.
Mrs I says she didnt receive this message and suggested it might be because she was 
transferring the money to her new account rather than withdrawing it. However, on balance, 
Im persuaded that this message was given to Mrs I. I say this as the screenshot TSB 
provided is headed, transferring money between your accounts and shows that when 
clicking on a FRISA the above message is displayed. TSB also confirmed the warning is 
given irrespective of what account a consumer is intending to transfer money to.
So taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied that TSB gave Mrs I clear instructions 
with sufficient notice and as she took money out of her two-year FRISA before it had matured, it correctly applied the withdrawal charge in-line with the terms and conditions of 
the account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Ben Waites
Ombudsman