DRN-2706601
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that NewDay Ltd, trading as Marbles, have recorded missed payments on 
her credit file.
What happened
Miss H has a credit account with NewDay. In February 2020, Miss H didnt make the 
minimum payment that was due on the account. This resulted in Miss H going over her credit 
limit and she was charged fees because of this.
Miss H contacted NewDay and explained that shed missed the payment in February 
because of a cancer diagnosis. NewDay placed a medical hold on Miss Hs account which 
stopped interest and charges being applied. NewDay also reimbursed the charges that they 
had already applied to Miss Hs account. However, Miss H didnt clear the arrears on her 
account, and this resulted in adverse information being recorded on Miss Hs credit file. 
Miss H wasnt happy about this. Miss H also wasnt happy that shed subsequently made 
payments toward the arrears for some time, but that some arrears remained. So, she made 
a complaint.
NewDay looked at Miss Hs complaint, but they felt that their recording missed payments on 
Miss Hs credit file was fair, given that payments had been missed, and they also felt that 
their calculation of the arrears on the account was correct and that Miss H hadnt made the 
necessary payments to clear the arrears in full. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss H wasnt satisfied with NewDays response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that NewDay had 
calculated the arrears correctly, and that this meant that the information recorded on Miss 
Hs credit file wasnt incorrect. So, they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can sympathise with Miss Hs position here, and I realise the severe effect that a diagnosis 
such as the one that Miss H received can have.
In circumstances such as this, where a customer has informed a business that they are 
experiencing financial difficulty because of personal events, what this service would expect 
would be that the business would react positively and sympathetically to the customer and to 
help the customer from falling deeper into arrears on their account.
And, having reviewed how NewDay responded to Miss H, Im satisfied that they did that 
here. NewDay reimbursed Miss H the fees that had been automatically applied to the 
account when the February payment was missed, and they placed Miss Hs account on a 
medical hold which meant that further interest and charges wouldnt accrue on the account. 
This gave Miss H the opportunity to repay the balance owing on the account without that 
balance increasing further. 
And its also evident that NewDay later extended the medical hold on Miss Hs account when 
it became clear that Miss H wouldnt be able to clear the outstanding balance by the time 
that the first period of medical hold was due to expire.
Miss H is unhappy that NewDay recorded missed payments on her credit file. However, 
while understandable in the circumstances at that time, Miss H did miss a minimum payment 
due on the account. As a provider of credit, NewDay do have a responsibility to make 
accurate reports to the credit reference agencies. And, while NewDay took action to ensure 
that the arrears on Miss Hs account didnt increase, there were existing arrears on the 
account because of the missed payment. And these are the arrears that NewDay reported.
It must be noted that this service wouldnt expect a business to not report missed payments 
to the credit reference agencies because of those payments being missed, and remaining 
unpaid, because of a medical diagnosis. So, while I sympathise with Miss H here with regard 
to the personal difficulties she was facing at the time, I dont feel that I can censure NewDay 
for the reports that theyve made to Miss Hs credit file here, and Im satisfied that that the 
reporting of the missed payments made by NewDay is reasonable and accurate. 
Im aware that Miss H doesnt feel that there should still be arrears present on her account 
and has questioned how this can be the case given that she has been making payments to 
repay these arrears for some time. However, having reviewed the statements on the account 
Im unable to find any evidence that NewDay have miscalculated the balance owing on the 
account in any way. 
Indeed, the only conclusion that Im able to make here is that arrears continue to remain on 
Miss Hs account because the sum total of all the payments that Miss H has made to date 
isnt sufficient to clear the balance outstanding on the account. And it follows from this that 
Im satisfied that NewDay havent acted unfairly by continuing to report those outstanding 
arrears to the credit reference agencies.
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that NewDay have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and so I wont be upholding this complaint or asking NewDay to take any 
further action at this time. I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss H was wanting, 
but I hope that she can understand, based on everything I have explained above, why I have 
reached the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman