DRN-2636744
The complaint
Mr C complains that Fluent Money Limited didnt provide him with appropriate advice about a 
loan he took out.
What happened
Mr C says he saw an advert for a loan in around 2015 and made enquires for it via a third-
party website. He says Fluent Money didnt provide him with any advice about alternatives to 
a loan such an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) or a debt management plan but 
pressured him into taking out a loan. Mr C doesnt complain about the affordability of the 
loan. But says due to Fluent Moneys actions, he would like the loan written off and 
compensation for what took place.
Fluent Money says it didnt lend to Mr C and is a credit broker. It says it didnt provide advice 
to Mr C and it was his choice to take out the loan and so didnt make a mistake or act 
unfairly.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Mr C was complaining not about affordability but the lack of advice and 
the pressure to take out the loan. The investigator didnt think Fluent Money had offered 
advice and it was Mr Cs choice to take out the loan but could see it did provide details of 
organisations that did provide advice on debt. The investigator didnt think there was any 
evidence of pressure placed on Mr C to take out the loan.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and has asked that it be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I realise 
Mr C will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that having looked at Fluent Moneys records that it didnt provide any advice to 
Mr C and that it was his decision to approach it and to later take out the loan. So, I cant 
fairly hold Fluent Money responsible for what Mr C says was a lack of advice about other 
options. I think it was up to Mr C to consider those other options and can also see that he 
was given details of organisations that could have provided such advice. I find this was a 
non-advised sale that Mr C was free to reject if he wished.
I appreciate Mr C says pressure was placed on him to take out the loan. I have not seen any 
evidence of that or a record of any complaints to Fluent Money about that issue before this 
complaint was made. In those circumstances I cant fairly find that such pressure was placed 
on Mr C and I would have have expected him to have rejected the loan offer if he wished. I 
can also see that it was Mr C that applied for the loan information in the first place.
I appreciate Mr C doesnt suggest the loan was unaffordable, but I make clear that Fluent 
Money didnt offer the loan and its role was that of a broker not lender. So that is not 
something I could consider in any event.
Overall, Im satisfied that Future Money has not made a mistake or acted unfairly and so I 
cant fairly order it to pay compensation. Im also satisfied that Mr C has had the benefit of 
the money and that it would be unfair in any event to order the debt be written off.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman