DRN-3387976
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Charter Court Financial Services Limited trading as Precise 
Mortgages wouldnt offer them a new interest rate on their buy to let mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have a buy to let mortgage with Precise. They also have mortgages with other 
lenders. The Precise mortgage was taken out in 2018 and had an initial rate which tracked at 
3% above LIBOR for two years, reverting to a rate which tracked 4.71% above LIBOR 
thereafter.
Mr and Mrs P contacted Precise to say that they were owed some funds which were late in 
being paid, which would mean they were unable to make their October 2019 payment on 
time. Precise agreed to a payment arrangement whereby it would agree to allow them to 
miss the payment that was due on 1 October, as long as it was made up by the end of the 
month. Mr and Mrs P did this. They later discovered that Precise had recorded the late 
payment and arrangement to their credit files. They complained, and Precise agreed to 
remove the entry from their credit files because it accepted it hadnt warned them it would be 
recorded when the arrangement was set up.
In 2020, Mr and Mrs Ps initial two year rate came to an end. They asked Precise for a new 
rate, but it refused them a new rate. Separately, another lender also rejected an application 
theyd made for a mortgage.
Mr and Mrs P complained about Precise. They said the late payment marker on their credit 
files had led the other lender to decline their application. And they said it wasnt fair Precise 
wouldnt give them a new rate on this mortgage  which might also be related to the late 
payment marker.
Precise said that what it had recorded on their credit file was accurate  but it had agreed to 
remove the entry anyway, because its agent hadnt explained that the late payment would be 
recorded. It said it was unlikely that was the sole reason another lender hadnt wanted to 
lend to them, even if the application had been made before the marker was removed. It also 
said that Mr and Mrs P werent eligible for a new interest rate on their existing mortgage. It 
said there was no obligation to offer them a new rate, and nothing stopping them moving 
their mortgage to another lender if they could find a better deal.
Our investigator didnt think Precise had treated Mr and Mrs P unfairly, so they asked for an 
ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage offer sets out what interest is chargeable to their mortgage  a rate 
tracking LIBOR plus 3% for the first two years, then tracking LIBOR plus 4.71% thereafter. 
This is the rate that Precise has in fact charged them. The mortgage offer doesnt suggest 
that Precise will offer Mr and Mrs P a new interest rate after the first two years, and theres 
no obligation on Precise to do so.
I note that this is a buy to let mortgage  which means its not regulated, and the rules of 
mortgage regulation therefore dont apply here. 
Even if the rules did apply, theres no obligation under the rules for a lender to offer an 
existing borrower a new interest rate on the expiry of an old one. There is provision to say 
that treating existing customers who cant change their mortgage, and cant move to another 
lender, differently to other customers who otherwise have similar characteristics might be 
unfair  but that doesnt apply here since this is an unregulated mortgage.
Precise doesnt make new interest rates available to all its existing buy to let mortgage 
customers. As I say, theres nothing in the terms of the mortgage that says it has to do so, 
and Ive not seen anything that suggests Precise led Mr and Mrs P to believe it would.
This is a buy to let mortgage  its not secured on Mr and Mrs Ps home, and effectively its a 
business theyre running in order to profit from the rental income. If Mr and Mrs P dont think 
that the Precise mortgage offers value for money, theres nothing to stop them shopping 
around for a better deal from another lender. Ive seen evidence that their mortgage adviser 
helped them apply for a new rate to Precise, but Ive not seen evidence that theyve looked 
into moving this mortgage elsewhere. Im sorry to hear of their difficult family circumstances, 
and I understand why that means theyd like a lower interest rate on this mortgage, to boost 
their income, but thats all the more reason for them to shop around and see what else might 
be available to them.
As far as the late payment marker is concerned, I dont think that was relevant to Precises 
decision not to make a new interest rate available to Mr and Mrs P on this mortgage. And 
once the marker was removed in early 2020  around the time the initial rate on this 
mortgage expired  the marker wouldnt impact their ability to go elsewhere either.
Mr and Mrs P did make their payment late in October 2019, and reached an arrangement 
with Precise to do so. Therefore, what Precise recorded on their credit file was accurate and 
reflected how theyd managed their mortgage. I appreciate the late payment was due to 
circumstances outside their control, but nevertheless they were late with their payment and 
Precise was entitled to record that on their credit files. However, it agreed to remove the 
marker in early 2020 because it accepted it hadnt warned Mr and Mrs P in advance about 
the consequences of making their payment late.
In the circumstances, I think removing the marker  even though it was accurate  was a fair 
thing for Precise to do. Im not persuaded that the marker (which only showed one payment 
late by arrangement, and was only there for a few months) was the main reason they were 
refused a mortgage with another lender. And I dont think it had any bearing on Precises 
decision to refuse Mr and Mrs P a new rate on this mortgage.
Going forward, Precise has said that it will consider a new application from Mr and Mrs P for 
a new mortgage to replace this one (though not a new rate on this mortgage). Or theres still 
no barrier to them moving their mortgage to another lender. They might want to have a 
conversation with their broker about the best way forward for them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman