DRN-4236275
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, didnt update her address 
details and sent statements to her old address. She would like more compensation than the 
£200 Halifax has paid, and the reassurance the correct address is now being used.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I do appreciate Mrs As frustration  her bank statements have been going to her old  
address for some time. Halifax has already paid Mrs A a total of £200 compensation. 
Mrs A isnt happy with this as statements for one account are still going to her old 
address  understandably she wants this resolved. And she doesnt feel the £200 
compensation paid is sufficient
We have gone back to Halifax with the evidence Mrs A gave us to show statements 
for one account are still going to her old address. Halifax has explained that a 
correspondence address was still held in relation to one of Mrs As accounts on an 
older system which caused the statement to be sent to the old address. It has asked 
us to pass on its apologies. Hopefully the issue should now be resolved.
Halifax has also offered Mrs A an additional £150 compensation. We have put this 
offer to Mrs A but she doesnt feel its sufficient. She has told us she had to pay a 
considerable sum of money to the owner of her old house to get the statement she 
sent to us but she doesnt want to evidence this. She is also concerned about the risk 
of her personal data  going astray but she hasnt evidenced any actual loss because 
of this. Finally, there has clearly been some inconvenience to Mrs A as this matter 
has taken some time to resolve
I have considered very carefully all the points Mrs A has made but I think the offer 
Halifax has made is fair- in total it will have paid Mrs A £350. I dont doubt the 
inconvenience to Mrs A and I think that sum recognises that.
But I cant award further  compensation for mis use of her personal data as there is 
no evidence of this. Neither can I award compensation for costs Mrs A wont 
evidence. Mrs A has indicated she had to pay a considerable sum of money to 
retrieve the statement she sent to us. However, I am surprised she didnt have her 
post redirected to her new address when she moved house. Taking all the 
information I have into account I think an additional £150 compensation is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, should pay Mrs A £150 
compensation for distress and inconvenient caused by not correctly updating her address 
details.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman