DRN-3380861
The complaint
Ms F complains about AvantCredit of UK, LCC (AC) and their decision to provide her with a 
high-interest loan which she was unable to afford.
What happened
In February 2017, Ms F applied for a high-interest loan with AC. This application was 
approved, and Ms F was provided with a loan of £3,200 which was repayable over a 24-
month term with a monthly repayment of £253.62.
Ms F maintained the monthly repayments initially. But she missed the monthly repayment in 
June and was diagnosed with a mental health condition soon after which led to a loss in 
income. Ms F was unable to make full monthly repayments to the account after this time, 
which led to a build-up of arrears. Eventually, the account was defaulted, and Ms Fs 
outstanding debt was sold. Ms F was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Ms F thought ACs decision to approve her loan was irresponsible as she thought it 
shouldve been clear to AC shed be unable to repay the loan in a sustainable way. And she 
explained how this debt had impacted her mental health negatively. So, she wanted AC to 
waive the outstanding balance and to remove any negative information recorded to her 
credit file.
AC responded and didnt agree. They thought they had completed proportionate checks 
before approving Ms Fs loan. And they didnt think the information these checks provided 
suggested the loan was unaffordable. So, they didnt think they had done anything wrong 
when lending to Ms F and so, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. But they did 
say they would pass Ms Fs account to their payments team to review, considering Ms Fs 
suffering with her mental health at that time. 
Ms F remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us. But she did 
so outside of the six-month time limit AC provided. Ms F explained to our service this was 
due to further struggles with her mental health that prevented her from coming to our service 
sooner. This information was put to AC, who consented for our service to continue with our 
investigation. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They thought the checks AC 
completed were proportionate. But they didnt think AC assessed the information these 
checks provided fairly. Our investigator thought AC shouldve recognised the significant 
increase in debt Ms Fs credit file reflected over the previous six months and asked for 
further information to understand why this was. And they also didnt think Ms F was left with 
a reasonable disposable income after the payments to service these debts were made, 
considering the low rent information Ms F declared.
Our investigator also recognised Ms Fs mental health and the impact this had on her 
employment status and income more recently. So, to put things right and take this into 
consideration, our investigator thought AC should settle any outstanding balance Ms F held 
related to the loan and to remove any negative information recorded on her credit file.
Ms F accepted this recommendation. But AC didnt. They provided additional affordability 
calculations based on Ms Fs credit file at the time the application was approved. And they 
thought this showed Ms F had a reasonable disposable income after all of her credit 
commitments had been paid. So, they didnt agree theyd acted irresponsibly. Our 
investigator considered these comments but maintained their view that the AC had acted 
unfairly when approving the loan. As AC didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
It's important to note there arent a set amount of checks a lender such as AC must make 
before they take the decision to approve a loan. Instead, they are expected to make checks 
that are proportionate to the value and duration of the loan being provided, compared 
against an applicants income.
In this situation, Ms F received a loan of £3,200. And she declared an income of £2,500 a 
month, which equates to an annual salary of just under £40,000 a year. So, the loan itself 
was for less than 10% of Ms Fs yearly salary.
I can see that before approving the loan, AC considered Ms Fs income, employment status, 
homeowner status and any other information declared on her application alongside the 
information reported to her credit file. Considering these checks against the loan value to 
income Ms F was receiving, I think these checks were proportionate.
But as well as being satisfied the checks made were proportionate, I also need to be 
satisfied that AC assessed the information these checks provided fairly. And in this situation, 
I dont think they did. 
First, Ive thought about the loan affordability. I can see before Ms F took out the loan, Ms F 
was spending just over £1,500 a month to service her existing credit commitments. And with 
the loan amount factored in, this would increase Ms Fs monthly credit commitments to be 
just over £1,800 a month, which left Ms F with just under £700 after these commitments 
were paid.
But crucially, this £700 didnt include Ms Fs rent, which she declared to be £100 a month. I 
think this declared amount is significantly lower than what would be expected, and I think, 
due to Ms Fs high existing credit commitments already, AC shouldve asked Ms F to confirm 
why this was low and seek evidence to confirm this. I cant see that they did this.
But with this £100 factored in, this left Ms F with just under £500. And this £500 would need 
to cover all of Ms Fs food, travel, clothing, and entertainment costs as well as any insurance 
products she is likely to have taken out. And its important to note this £500 was only 
available if Ms F paid the only the minimum payments on her credit card accounts, which 
isnt a sustainable way for her to have managed her debt.
While I appreciate AC believe this would be affordable, I dont this they couldve known this 
for sure when they approved the loan. Considering Ms Fs clear reliance on credit, with over 70% of her monthly income needing to be used to pay existing credit commitments, I think 
AC shouldve requested bank statements from Ms F to confirm exactly what her average 
additional spending totalled. And I cant see they did. So, I dont think they did enough to 
fairly satisfy themselves the loan would be affordable to Ms F, for her to pay in a sustainable 
way over the full term.
In addition to this, I can see from the credit file information AC considered, that in the three 
months before Ms Fs application, there had been balance increases on 11 of her existing 
credit accounts. And Ms Fs total debt balance had increased by over £2,300 in those three 
months and over the 12 months previous, Ms Fs total debt balance had increased by more 
than £15,000. 
I think this shouldve signalled to AC that Ms F had been increasing her credit commitments 
consistently for a sustained period of time. And I think this shouldve led AC to seek further 
information, such as bank statements or a completed income and expenditure form, to 
understand why Ms F had increased her credit commitments so significantly. Again, I cant 
see that they did this. So, I dont think I can say they assessed the information their checks 
provided fairly and because of this, I think they acted irresponsibly when deciding to provide 
Ms F with the loan. As I dont think AC acted reasonably, Ive then thought about what I think 
AC should do to put things right.
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Ms F back in the position she wouldve 
been, had AC acted fairly and reasonably in the first instance. 
In this situation, had AC acted fairly, I think they wouldve sought further information from Ms 
F before approving the loan. And I think if they had, its most likely they wouldve taken the 
decision to decline Ms Fs application and not provide the loan as it was clear within months 
of the application that Ms F couldnt afford the repayments as she fell into arrears. In this 
situation, our services usual approach is to direct AC to refund any interest and charges 
applied to the loan account. But, we would usually say the capital balance of the loan would 
still need to be repaid, as the customer has been able to make use of this capital.
But there are occasions where we say the entire loan, including the capital balance, should 
be refunded or written off, if a balance is still outstanding. And I think this complaint is one of 
these occasions.
Since the loan was approved, Ms F has been diagnosed with several mental health 
conditions. Ive seen a letter provided by Ms Fs GP which explains between 2015 and July 
2017, these conditions led to her accruing significant debts and overspending. I think this 
explains the significant increase in Ms Fs credit commitments in the 12 months before Ms F 
received the loan from AC, which I think they shouldve done more to question.
The letter also explains that due these mental health conditions, Ms F is unable to work and 
is in receipt of disability benefits. I can see from a recent income and expenditure form that 
Ms F completed that her income of £568.97 a month is still less than her outgoings of 
£604.58. So, I think its reasonably clear Ms F has no reasonable way of repaying her debts, 
including the outstanding balance of the loan AC provided.
So, on this occasion, considering I dont think AC shouldve provided the loan and I feel their 
decision to do so impacted Ms F in a way that has now left her with no reasonable way of 
repaying the capital balance, I think the outstanding balance should be settled with Ms F 
having nothing left to pay.I appreciate AC sold Ms Fs debt to another company. And they say they are unable to buy 
this back. But I dont think this is the fault of Ms F. Nor do I think it should be Ms Fs 
responsibility to engage with the new debt owner or ask this debt owner to waive the 
outstanding balance. So, I think AC should liaise with this debt owner and settle the 
outstanding balance, so Ms F has no further debt to pay regarding the loan, in whatever way 
they can agree with the new debt owner.
And had AC not provided the loan to Ms F, this loan would never have been reported to Ms 
Fs credit file. So, I think any negative information reported to Ms Fs credit file regarding the 
loan should be removed.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Ms Fs complaint about AvantCredit of UK, LCC 
and I direct them to take the following action:
Settle Ms Fs outstanding debt with the new debt owner so Ms F has no balance left 
to pay; and
Remove any negative information recorded on Ms Fs credit file relating to this loan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman