DRN-1934281
The complaint
Mr S complains about the customer service he received from Metro Bank PLC when trying to 
make a payment through his mobile banking application.
What happened
Mr S was unable to set up a new payee on his mobile banking application. He phoned Metro 
Bank to make it aware of the issue and to ask for the payee to be added. The call 
disconnected just after Mr S was verified as the account holder, so the payee wasn't set up. 
Mr S needed to make the payment urgently, so he went into a Metro Bank branch, where the 
payee was set up. Metro Bank also raised an IT ticket so the issue with his banking app 
could be investigated further. A few days later someone from Metro Banks technical team 
called Mr S back. They told Mr S he hadn't been able to set up the payee using his app 
because of a system error but this had now been fixed. 
Mr S raised a complaint with Metro Bank. He said this was the second time hed had this 
problem with his banking app. The first time, hed also gone into the branch, but the issue 
hadn't been raised with the technical team. He was also unhappy that he hadn't been called 
back after his call was disconnected. Mr S is severely disabled and going into branch caused 
him a great deal of distress and inconvenience. He felt that this could have been avoided 
because the technical team seemed to be aware of the problem. He also didn't feel 
reassured it wouldn't happen again.
Metro Bank apologised about its level of service and inconvenience caused. It said it 
understood the issue had been resolved.
Mr S remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into his concerns and thought Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. She recommended Metro 
Bank pay Mr S £50 for trouble and upset. 
Mr S didn't feel £50 was enough to compensate him for the inconvenience, stress and 
suffering hed experienced. He said Metro Bank was aware of his severe disability and the 
impact of travelling to the branch. He also has great difficulty conducting lengthy telephone 
calls. He felt Metro Bank should have called him back after the call disconnected, given the 
long wait time to get through. He thought £75 was a fair and reasonable amount to put things 
right. 
In the meantime, Metro Bank accepted our investigators recommendation and paid £50 into 
Mr Ss bank account. But the compensation was paid into a joint bank account. Mr S said he 
no longer used the account and there was a risk that the joint account holder could remove 
the funds.  
Our investigator asked Metro Bank to move the £50 from the joint account into Mr Ss sole 
account. Metro Bank said it hadn't been aware of Mr Ss dispute with the joint account 
holder. It wasn't able to move the full £50 as £25 had already been withdrawn. So, it moved 
£25 to Mr Ss sole account and paid an extra £25.Mr S confirmed hed received £50 in his sole account. But he said he would still like his 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, his complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro Bank has acknowledged its customer service should have been better and its agreed 
to our investigators recommendation to pay Mr S £50 to put things right. Although its paid a 
total of £75, Mr S only received £50 into his sole account. He doesn't think this is enough to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced. So, Ive needed to 
decide whether £50 is a fair and reasonable amount to put things right.
I dont doubt it was frustrating for Mr S to not be able to set up a payee using his banking 
app, particularly as this was the second time hed experienced this issue. Ive listened to a 
recording of the phone call that followed, but I couldn't tell why it cut off. The advisor was still 
there and trying to speak to Mr S when it ended. So, I dont think it was likely to have been 
because of anything the advisor did.
Metro Bank has acknowledged that the advisor didnt call Mr S back. It hasnt given a reason 
for this, but it says Mr S had the option to call back to set up the payee rather than visiting 
the branch. Mr S says he decided not to do this because there was a long call wait time and 
he didn't want to go through the verification process again. Mr S had made the advisor 
aware of his disability during the phone call and the verification process did take longer 
because of this. So, I think the advisor should have called Mr S back under the 
circumstances.
Mr S says making journeys involves a great deal of preparation and physical support. He 
had to ask a friend to help him make the trip to the branch. The wait time to secure disabled 
parking was considerably long and caused him further pain and suffering. 
From what Ive been told, Metro Bank resolved the issues soon after Mr S went into the 
branch. It set up the payee, so he was able to make the payment he wanted to. And it fixed 
the problem with Mr Ss app within a few days. Mr S says he didn't feel reassured it wouldn't 
happen again. But Metro Bank says it would not be fair or reasonable for it to promise that a 
technical issue wouldn't happen again. And I think thats understandable. I also havent been 
told of any ongoing issues. 
I appreciate that Mr Ss disability made visiting the branch much more difficult for him. This 
might have been avoided if the issue with the app had been fixed sooner or the advisor had 
called him back when his call cut off. But Metro Bank did resolve the problem fairly quickly 
after he went into the branch. And having considered everything, I think the £50 Metro Bank 
has paid Mr S is fair compensation for the trouble and upset hes experienced. So, I wont 
ask it to do anything else.
Putting things right
Metro Bank has already paid Mr S £50. And I think this is fair compensation for the trouble 
and upset hes experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Metro Bank PLC has already paid 
Mr S £50 and I think this is fair. So, I dont award any further compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman