DRN-2485677
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) hasnt paid them enough 
compensation following their packaged bank account (PBA) mis-sale complaint being upheld 
by a different Ombudsman.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M held an Additions Active PBA from 2010, which was migrated to a fee free 
account with packs  that is, insurance add ons  in 2017. There was no sale, or need for 
explicit consent to this change, it happened by default unless the customer intervened.
In April 2020 another Ombudsman upheld their complaint about the sale of the Additions 
Active PBA. She found that it was most likely that Mr and Mrs M were wrongly told that they 
couldnt have two fee free accounts, and so this particular one had to be a paid for PBA. She 
directed Barclays to repay the account fees in the normal way.
Barclays has limited the amount it has agreed to pay, saying that when the migration 
happened Mr and Mrs M would have known that this account could be free, and so it isnt 
fair for it to have to refund the fees paid for the packs.
Our adjudicator thought that Barclays should include these fees in its refund, but it didnt 
accept that and so the case has come to me for decision.
To be clear, I will only be considering in this decision whether it is fair and reasonable for 
Barclays to refund the fees for the Tech and Travel packs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays says that from September 2016, when it sent its initial letter to Mr and Mrs M 
informing them about the migration, they should have been aware that they could have a 
free account. I can see that the letter says the Barclays Bank Account, which is what Mr 
and Mrs Ms account was changing to, has no monthly fee. So, it says the letters Mr and 
Mrs M were sent, should have at least prompted them to contact us and query their 
overall position in relation to their accounts
The fact that the letters do say the account can be fee free doesnt automatically mean that, 
in all the circumstances of this case, it is fair and reasonable for Barclays to limit the fees it 
needs to refund. The mis-sale complaint was upheld for the specific reason that Mr and Mrs 
M werent told they could have two fee free accounts. Not that this particular account could 
not, in theory, be fee free. But that their circumstances were such that it had to be paid for.
There is nothing in the migration letters that can reasonably be said to have made Mr and 
Mrs M aware that they, specifically, did not have to continue to pay fees on the Additions 
Active account that was being migrated. Barclays has not made a link between the content 
of the migration letters and the detail of Mr and Mrs Ms testimony around the mis-sale of the 
account.
Consequently, in the circumstances of this particular case, it would be neither fair nor 
reasonable for me to conclude that the fees paid for the packs after January 2017 do not 
need to be refunded.
Putting things right
It may be that Barclays has already provided a part refund to Mr and Mrs M, capped at the 
migration point in January 2017. In any event, it needs to ensure that it refunds all of the 
fees that Mr and Mrs M paid for this account, including when it was migrated, until it became 
entirely free, along with 8% simple interest on those fees, less deductible tax.
If Mr and Mrs M saved money by having a better rate for an overdraft, loan or savings
account than they wouldve had without this packaged account, Barclays may take the
savings off the total amount that it pays back to them. But if Barclays does this, it must
explain this clearly to Mr and Mrs M, and show how it worked out the savings  so its easy
for Mr and Mrs M to understand.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must
give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman