DRN-3029043
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 1999. Mr D says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint (which includes Mr Ds 
circumstances at the time as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and exclusions) 
arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the mis-sale complaint. However, they thought 
Lloydss subsequent offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-
disclosure of high commission and profit share, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ds representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. However, they didnt raise 
any new or additional points and repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ds. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ds complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive too decided Lloyds should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that its subsequent offer to refund some of the cost of PPI 
to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. 
Its not entirely clear whether the sale was a postal one or at a branch of the bank. However, 
in any event, we do still have access to the agreement Mr D signed when he applied for his 
new credit card. 
I note there was a section on the agreement which was entitled Optional Features. This 
section then invited Mr D to choose if he did  or he didnt  want PPI with the new card he 
was applying for. He ticked the yes option and so this demonstrates to me that he wanted 
this type of protective cover. Ive considered whether this might have been done in error, but 
I also see that the charges for PPI then periodically started to appear on his account 
statements where it was listed as CARDHOLDER PROTECTION PLAN. lf hed not given 
his consent, I think Mr D have been prompted to ask what the charges were for. Theres no 
evidence he did this, so I think its more likely he agreed to the PPI as outlined on the form.
I cant say whether or not Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr D as part of an advised sale, 
but if it did so, it had to check that the PPI was right for him. In my view, the evidence about 
Mr Ds circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for him. For example, he was eligible for the cover and he had only limited other 
means to fall back on in the event of something unexpected happening, such as losing his 
job or being unable to work. I note Mr D had some limited sickness protection with his job 
and although no evidence was provided, his representative said hed have also been entitled 
to death in service benefit and redundancy pay. However, looking at his employment 
situation as of 1999, I think these would have been quite moderate. Also, having PPI doesnt 
conflict with having these other benefits, as they covered different eventualities.
So overall, noting that the PPI could have paid 5% of his existing credit card balance for up 
to a year if hed needed to claim, this would have been in addition to any other means he 
had. Ive seen nothing else that would have made claiming for back or mental problems 
especially onerous for Mr D either and he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that would have affected his ability to successfully claim.
So I think the policy was suitable for him and recommending it to him wasnt unreasonable.
Its obviously possible the information Lloyds gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been, but as Ive said, he chose to take it out so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover. It wasnt too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the 
information he was likely given at the point of sale. It also looks like it was affordable for him 
and useful if something went wrong. I therefore dont think Mr D would have declined the 
policy even if Lloyds could have done a better job at explaining things.
Mr Ds representative raised a number of what I consider to be general points, which it says 
apply to all PPI complaints. These include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is 
not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these 
policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover coupled with a low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant 
Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions and the impact on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr Ds representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ds individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. Ive 
thought about these and how they might apply in Mr Ds particular case. But these points 
dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr D about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mr D was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr D because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Ds representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint. In summary they have said Mr D should get back all the money 
he paid for the policy because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr D about the high commission and 
profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr D wouldnt 
have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and he should 
receive a refund of all the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipabout mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr D in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Ds representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Lloydss failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr D paid for his PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness because it leaves Mr D with the policy Ive concluded above he 
would still have taken out if Lloyds had done everything it should have done  but with lower 
commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Lloydss subsequent offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated 
interest where applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the 
circumstances.
 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I do not uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Ds 
complaint or make any award in favour of him for this part of the complaint.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr D an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman