DRN-2213750
The complaint
X is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to report correct information regarding the 
history of her credit card account which led to her mortgage application being declined.
What happened
X opened her bank current and credit card accounts with HSBC in July 2018.
In early 2020, X wanted to buy her first property. Having found a property, she contacted a 
broker for advice about raising a mortgage. Around the same time, X committed to purchase 
various items of furniture for her new home.
 
After completing a mortgage application with the broker, she was told that it had been 
declined. They told X that she had failed the application assessment because she had no 
credit history file showing with the credit reference agency. 
X requested a copy of her credit file from Experian which confirmed that there was no credit 
history on her record. She was concerned as it showed no record of her credit card account 
with HSBC.
X contacted HSBC and asked for help and an explanation of why her credit card account 
details hadnt been shared with the credit reference agencies. Despite numerous attempts, 
she found nobody at HSBC who could help her. So, she decided to raise a complaint with 
them.
HSBC investigated Xs complaint. They agreed that they hadnt shared her information with 
the credit reference agencies when they should have. HSBC agreed to correct their mistake 
and ensure that her credit card activity was reported correctly. They paid her compensation 
of £100.
X checked her credit history again some weeks later. HSBC were now reporting her account 
information. But they had not updated her credit file with the history back to when the 
account was opened in July 2018. They apologised for this error and agreed to correct this. 
They paid her a further £150 compensation.
X wasnt happy with the outcome of her complaint. She wasnt able to buy her new house as 
a result of her failed mortgage application. She thought that this was HSBCs fault. This left 
her with a large quantity of furniture which she had committed to purchase. She had 
nowhere to store it. So, she thought that HSBC should increase the compensation paid to 
reflect what she had spent.
HSBC didnt agree. So, X brought her complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into her complaint. But she didnt think that HSBC needed to do anything more here. 
So, X has asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at the personal credit report information provided by X. The report from one 
agency is dated March 2020 and doesnt show any details of Xs credit card account with 
HSBC. Another report from a different agency is dated June 2020 and shows Xs credit card 
with HSBC. It confirms the 2018 start date but only shows her payment history for March and 
April 2020.
 
These reports confirm Xs claim that HSBC hadnt been updating her file when they should. 
They also show that the reporting had commenced from March 2020. It is not unusual for the 
history to be around six to eight weeks behind in these reports. This is due to both the timing 
of credit card billing cycles and the monthly reporting process followed by lenders.
HSBC have agreed that they made a mistake here. It is unfortunate that X wasnt able to find 
someone to help her at the outset, despite her repeated approaches to HSBC. I agree that 
HSBC couldve done better. They agreed to make sure that her credit card history was 
reported correctly. They also paid compensation to X of £100. This is what I would expect 
from HSBC. It puts X back into the position that she shouldve been.
The June personal credit report confirms that HSBC were now reporting Xs credit card 
history. However, it is also important that the earlier history is included. All lenders have a 
responsibility to ensure that all information about a customers credit history is recorded 
promptly and accurately. This is because lenders and other account providers check credit 
files to help them decide whether or not they want to do business with a customer. So, 
having looked at the June report, I can see that HSBC needed to do more here.
HSBC confirmed to X that her history was not reporting from when she first opened her 
credit card account. They said that theyd requested for this to be amended and that it could 
take six to eight weeks to appear. They also paid further compensation of £150 to X. I can 
completely understand Xs further frustration here. So, I think that HSBC did the right thing 
by putting this right and compensating her further for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by their mistake.
X says that her mortgage application was declined because she didnt have a credit score. I 
can see that HSBCs error could well have impacted upon the outcome of her application. 
But I cant see any evidence to confirm that this was the only reason. In a way that could 
mean itd be fair for me to hold HSBC responsible for this. But lenders each use their own 
systems when assessing whether theyre prepared to lend to someone. These will focus on 
a broad range of factors when assessing an application, including, but not limited to credit 
reference information. This is especially true when applying for a mortgage, which is a large 
commitment and so will take into account a number of different factors. So, I cant conclude 
that HSBCs mistake was solely to blame here.
X told HSBC that she had incurred considerable costs as a result of her declined mortgage 
application. This included money relating to furniture that shed committed to purchase for 
her new home. Although I can appreciate Xs frustration here, I have to look at things from 
both sides and it wouldnt be fair for me to hold HSBC responsible for purchases that X 
chose to make before her mortgage was agreed.
 
Its disappointing that HSBC failed to report Xs credit card information promptly from when 
she first opened her account. It is clear that Xs credit reports did not show a full picture as a 
result. It is also disappointing that this wasnt corrected in the right way first time. But I think that HSBC have acknowledged their mistakes and taken fair steps to correct them. They 
have also compensated X financially. The amounts are in line with what I would expect to 
see here and reflect the impact this would have had on X.
I understand that X will be disappointed, but I wont be upholding her complaint to HSBC.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Xs complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
David Morgan
Ombudsman