DRN-2938989
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that QIC Europe Ltd unfairly voided their home insurance policy and 
refused to pay a claim for accidental damage.
Where I refer to QIC, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
In June 2020, Mr and Mrs D took out home insurance with QIC through a price comparison 
website. 
In October 2020, whilst decorating their home, Mr and Mrs Ds TV was damaged so they 
contacted QIC. The claim was declined as they didnt have accidental damage cover on their 
policy, so they decided to add it and lower their policy excess. They paid the additional 
premium for these changes. 
A week later, Mr and Mrs D made a further claim; this time for accidental damage to their 
carpets which occurred whilst carrying out redecoration works. 
As part of QICs consideration of the claim, it carried out some policy validation checks. In 
doing so, it discovered that Mr and Mrs Ds son had a CCJ registered against him at the 
insured address from March 2020. QIC says it asked Mr and Mrs D whether any occupants 
of the property had been served with a CCJ in the last five years and theyd answered no. As 
this wasnt disclosed during the sale process in June 2020 or the mid-term adjustment in 
October 2020, QIC contacted Mr and Mrs D to make some enquiries. 
QIC says Mr and Mrs D first told it that their son didnt live with them, but that he hadnt 
changed his address. They later added that hed recently moved back home but that he 
hadnt lived there when the policy was taken out. It was then confirmed that their son lived 
part time between the insured address and his partners home. 
QIC has asked Mr and Mrs D to provide the address details for the partner and any evidence 
showing that their son resides somewhere other than the insured address, either on a full or 
part time basis - but Mr and Mrs D say their son hasnt consented to them releasing any 
information about his partners residence. And they have no evidence to show he lived 
elsewhere. They say they didnt know their son had a CCJ, and they answered the questions 
to the best of their knowledge.
Due to the lack of evidence that Mr and Mrs Ds son lived elsewhere, QIC has determined 
that the question was answered incorrectly. And it considered this to be a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to void the policy, refuse the claim and refund the 
premiums. 
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with this decision, so they brought their complaint to our 
service. But our investigator didnt uphold it. She wasnt satisfied that Mr and Mrs D took 
reasonable care to answer the questions accurately. And as QIC has been able to show that 
it wouldnt have offered Mr and Mrs D a policy had it known about the CCJ, she considered it 
to be fair for it to void the policy and refuse the claim. 
As Mr and Mrs D didnt accept what our investigator said, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies it can take provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show that, had it been provided with the 
correct and accurate information and no misrepresentation had been made, it would have 
offered the policy on different terms or not at all.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate, reckless or careless.
QIC thinks Mr and Mrs D failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when they stated in their application that no one living at the property had been served with 
a CCJ.
Ive looked at the questions Mr and Mrs D were asked in the application process. I can see 
that they were given a list of statements which they had to select I agree or I disagree to 
each one. The relevant statement says; none of the occupants have been served with a 
county court judgment within 5 years. I think the question asked is clear and specific. 
Mr and Mrs D said I agree to this statement. But QIC has provided evidence to show that 
their son has an unsatisfied CCJ against him from three months prior to the policy inception. 
Its been registered to the insured address which is the address recorded as their sons 
permanent place of residence. 
 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs D say their son didnt live at the property when they took the 
policy out. And that they didnt know about the CCJ. So Ive thought about whether their 
answer was incorrect and amounts to a misrepresentation. And if so, whether they took 
reasonable care to avoid it.
Firstly, there is no evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs Ds son lived elsewhere at the time 
the policy was taken out. I think that if he did, there would be some information to show this. 
Not only is there no evidence, but Mr and Mrs D has been unable to provide the address 
details of where their son resides or any testimony from his partner to confirm he was living 
with them. Because of this, I have nothing to support that the son was living anywhere other 
than the insured address. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs D say they didnt know about the CCJ, I think it was reasonable for them 
to make enquiries before answering the question. Theres nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs D asked their son the question before declaring that they agree to the statement above 
which wouldve been the correct thing to do here. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied there was a misrepresentation and that Mr and Mrs D didnt 
take reasonable care to avoid it happening.
Ive then considered whether this misrepresentation made a difference to QIC. To decide 
this, I need to determine what it wouldve done if Mr and Mrs D had answered I disagree to 
the statement regarding CCJs. 
QIC tells us that it wouldnt have offered Mr and Mrs D a policy as it wouldnt have been 
prepared to accept the risk. Its provided us with a copy of its underwriting criteria. And whilst 
I cant share this with Mr and Mrs D, because its commercially sensitive, I can assure them 
Ive seen it and it shows that a policy application wouldve been declined had QIC been 
aware of the CCJ.  
Mr and Mrs D dont think its fair for QIC to decline a policy on the basis of someone who 
isnt the policyholder having a CCJ. Theyve asked how it affects the risk they pose to QIC. 
They also say it hasnt affected applications to other insurers and its not clear why there isnt 
a standard set of questions for all policy applications. 
QIC is entitled to decide which risks it wants to cover and which it doesnt, along with what 
information it takes into account in making those decisions. The criteria it applies is set out in 
its underwriting guidelines and will be specific to QIC. Every insurer will have its own criteria 
of what risks its prepared to accept along with what questions it wants to ask during its sales 
process. 
This isnt something our service would usually involve itself in. But we can ensure that the 
criteria are applied fairly and consistently to all customers, and that Mr and Mrs D havent 
been treated differently to any other customer in the same circumstances. 
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied QIC wouldve done something differently had it 
known about the CCJ  it wouldnt have offered a policy to them. So this would amount to a 
qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. 
QIC has categorised the misrepresentation as being careless. This is because it doesnt 
believe Mr and Mrs D deliberately or recklessly withheld the fact that an occupant of the 
property had a CCJ. But rather, it says Mr and Mrs D didnt take reasonable care. 
I agree the qualifying misrepresentation was careless. As such, in line with the remedies 
available to QIC under CIDRA, its entitled to void the policy, refuse the claim and refund the 
policy premiums. As this is what its done, I dont consider these actions to be unfair or 
unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman