DRN-3423932
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a credit card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss B took out the credit card in 1997 and its most likely that she was sold PPI at the same 
time.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss B disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Lloyds no longer has any documentation from the sale. This is not surprising given how long 
ago it took place. But it does make the complaint more difficult to decide. Therefore, in 
reaching my decision I have looked the evidence that we do have, as well as what I consider 
is most likely to have happened.
Although Lloyds has no documentation from the sale, it does have a summary of some basic 
information such as the start and end dates of the credit card. It also has the credit card 
statements from January 2000. As the January 2000 shows PPI on the account, we know 
that the policy must have started sometime between then and when the credit card account 
began in January 1997. As Ive said, it is most likely that the PPI was taken out at the same 
time that the card was applied for.
Miss B says she didnt know that she had PPI, meaning that it was added without her 
knowledge or consent. Although Lloyds doesnt have a copy of the actual paperwork, it does 
have a sample copy of the type of application form that was in use around the time of the 
sale. This had a separate section for PPI with a box that had to be ticked if the policy was 
wanted. From what we know of Lloyds PPI sales process at the time, the policy would 
normally have been presented as optional. And I havent seen any evidence that would lead 
me to conclude that something different happened in this case.
Miss B says the policy wasnt discussed with her and she didnt sign to agree to it. I have no 
doubt that Miss B has provided her honest recollection of events. However, the sale was a 
long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if her memory has faded. Overall, I think that 
Miss B would probably have known that she had a choice about taking out the PPI. On 
balance, it seems to me that she decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt have to, even if 
she no longer remembers doing so.
I dont know whether or not Lloyds advised Miss B to take out the policy. If it did then, in 
recommending it to her, it needed to ensure that the policy met her needs. And from what I 
know of Miss Bs circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for her.
Miss B would have received sick pay from her employer of six months full pay, followed by 
six months half pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for 
longer than Miss B would have received full pay for. And Miss B didnt have any other 
means, such as savings to fall back on. Miss B has told us that she had some other 
insurance policies. But these were covering a different sort of risk than her credit card 
repayments and so the PPI wasnt duplicating her existing cover. Overall I consider that Miss 
B had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it at what would have been a 
difficult time.
Lloyds needed to give Miss B enough information about the policy for her to be able to make 
an informed choice about whether or not it was right for her. I think that Miss B would have 
known something about the policy  that it would cover her repayments if she was unable to 
work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think shed have decided 
to buy it without knowing anything at all about it. 
Its possible that Lloyds didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Miss B wasnt affected by any of 
those things. For example, she did not have a pre-existing medical condition that might have 
been excluded under the policy. As I think that Miss B had an interest in the PPI and decided 
to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused her to change her mind. So 
she is no worse off as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong, so there is nothing 
that Lloyds needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman