DRN-3261625
The complaint and background
Mr W has complained about changes to HSBC UK Bank Plcs charging structure for 
overdrafts. He explained that he had already been unhappy with the amounts he was being 
charged, and that this was exacerbated by the increase in interest rates. HSBC didnt uphold 
the complaint. And as Mr W was dissatisfied he referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that HSBC ought 
to have realised that Mr W was experiencing financial difficulty by May 2015 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. HSBC 
disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that HSBC acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after May 2015. By 
this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr W was in no position to sustainably repay what 
he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
I say this because, by this point, Mr W was hardcore borrowing. In other, words he hadnt 
seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. As our adjudicator 
explained, HSBCs own literature suggests that overdrafts are not for prolonged day-to-day 
expenditure. HSBC has argued that only unarranged overdrafts are referred to as being for 
emergency borrowing, but the terms and conditions that HSBC sent us with its file for this 
very complaint also refer to overdrafts in general as being for short-term borrowing.
In any case, industry codes of practice  such as the Lending Code  which were in place at 
the time and which HSBC signed up to, clearly stated that hardcore borrowing was a 
potential indicator of difficulty. So I remain of the view that sustained and prolonged overdraft 
usage is an indication of a potential problem.
I note that HSBC thinks Mr W has said he is not experiencing financial difficulty. But I dont 
agree that Mr Ws comment that he can just about balance the incomings and outgoings 
from his account means that hes not experiencing difficulties, and I think the implication is 
also that the additional charges on top of his usual outgoings are not sustainable.
I also note HSBCs other comments about Mr Ws financial position. Specifically that he is 
able to keep his credit card up to date  he appears to be using this overdraft to make 
payments to various credit cards including one he holds with HSBC  and that he has made 
some payments to an investment account  the evidence of that investment account that 
HSBC has provided is from several years after 2015. But with all Ive seen none of these 
points change my decision that HSBC should have begun to take action regarding this 
account in May 2015. 
With all this in mind, I think that Mr Ws overdraft usage should have prompted HSBC to 
have realised that he wasnt using his overdraft as intended and so it shouldnt have 
continued offering it on the same terms. As HSBC didnt react to Mr Ws overdraft usage and 
instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr W ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that HSBC didnt 
treat Mr W fairly and he lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ws current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after 1 May 2015 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr W to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ws credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft in May 2015. HSBC can also reduce 
Mr Ws overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate to do 
so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave him over his limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr W along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ws credit file. HSBC can also 
reduce Mr Ws overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate 
to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. HSBC UK Bank PLC should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Sophie MitchellOmbudsman