DRN-2037666
The complaint
Mr F complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limited and the cost of his insurance 
premium after it increased when he came to renew it.
What happened
In August 2018, Mr F purchased a car insurance policy through an insurance broker, who ill 
refer to as H. This policy was underwritten by Advantage. As this complaint relates to the 
pricing of Mr Fs policy, it has been set up against Advantage. H have acted as an agent to 
Advantage, meaning theyve handled Mr Fs complaint and produced a response on behalf 
of Advantage.
The policy Mr F purchased included a telematics box, which would monitor the way he drove 
his car and offered discounts for good driving. As a telematics box needed to be fitted to Mr 
Fs car, his premium included the cost of this. In total, Mr F paid £296.41, which included a 
£100.00 fitting fee.
In July 2019, H contacted Mr F about his renewal. Within this, they congratulated him on his 
driving score and explained a discount had been provided to his renewal premium. But the 
renewal premium of £302.05 was higher than the amount hed paid in 2018. He was 
unhappy with this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr F didnt think it was fair for his premium to be higher than the previous year, when his 
driving had qualified him for a discount. He thought H had included a fitting fee again, which 
he thought was unreasonable. He explained without the fitting fee, his premium price had 
risen from £196.41 to £302.05 which equated to an increase of over 50%. He thought this 
was unreasonable and wanted the premium to be reduced.
H responded on behalf of Advantage and didnt agree. They explained his renewal price 
didnt include a fitting fee, and that a premium is calculated on several factors which may 
have led to an increase. But they offered to reduce the renewal price to £296.41, so Mr F 
wasnt paying anything more than he had done the previous year. Mr F agreed to continue 
with the renewal a few weeks later. But Mr F wasnt happy as the previous years cost was 
higher due to the fitting fee, which he didnt need again. As Mr F remained unhappy, he 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He explained that the way a 
premium is calculated is based on a number of factors, not just the information provided by 
Mr Fs telematics box. He explained he didnt think Mr F had been charged a fitting fee 
again. Because of this, and the fact Mr F was given time to consider alternative insurance 
before choosing to proceed with the renewal, he didnt think Advantage had done anything 
wrong. So, he didnt think they needed to do anything further.
Mr F didnt agree. He maintained his view that the pricing of the premium was unfair, and 
that the fitting fee had been included in the renewal premium. He thought his driving had 
qualified him for a discount so didnt think it was reasonable for the price of his premium to 
increase as much as it had. As Mr F didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr F. Ive no doubt he 
wouldve been surprised when he received his renewal price, especially when the document 
congratulated him on his driving score and explained a discount would be applied. And I can 
understand why Mr F wouldve expected it to be less, considering he paid a fitting fee for his 
first insurance policy. But for me to say Advantage have done something wrong, Id need to 
see that there had been a clear and obvious error in the pricing of the premium. For 
example, that a fitting fee had been included again or a discount hadnt been applied. And in 
this situation, I dont think thats the case.
H have provided me with a screenshot of the calculations Advantage used when pricing Mr 
Fs renewal premium price. And I can see that a fitting fee wasnt included in this calculation. 
I can also see that a discount has been applied, in line with the information H provided Mr F 
when they provided his renewal documents. Because of this, I cant say Advantage have 
made a clear and obvious error when pricing Mr Fs premium.
Insurance premiums are calculated considering several factors which determine the risk an 
insurer is taking by placing a customer on cover. These factors include considerations 
outside of Mr F and his driving record. As one example, a premium could be affected by the 
number of accidents in the area local to Mr F. The way insurers calculate the premiums are 
commercially sensitive and an internal business process and because of this, it isnt 
something Im able to comment on or ask Advantage to change. It isnt my role to re-
underwrite Mr Fs claim for insurance, only to consider whether its been calculated fairly. But 
I am also able to consider the way they communicated this renewal premium to Mr F.
I can see H contacted Mr F on 29 July, almost a month before the renewal was due, on 
behalf of Advantage. Mr F spoke to H the next day, and they agreed to reduce the premium 
to the save cost as the premium hed paid the previous year. I think this was a fair offer for H 
to make and recognised his driving record for the previous year. This still gave Mr F the 
opportunity to shop around and find a cheaper premium. And Ive seen that some weeks 
later, Mr F got back in touch with H to renew his policy. So, I think he was provided with 
adequate time by Advantage to find another policy if he was unhappy with its cost. And 
having done so, he chose to renew. Because of this, I think its reasonable to assume that, 
despite the increase, the premium offered by Advantage remained competitive against other 
insurers.
So, I dont think it would be fair for me to say Mr F should have a refund of his premium, 
when it was ultimately his choice to continue with the policy. And Mr F had the benefit of that 
policy as he remained insured for the following year. Because of this, I dont think it would be 
fair for me to say Advantage should do anything more on this occasion.
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman