DRN-2911141
The complaint
Miss D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money she lost, which she believes 
was as the result of a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all in 
detail here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to 
be as follows;
Miss D has said that, sometime during 2019, a friend at work, who Miss D had known for 
about 18 months, began telling her about investment opportunities. Miss D has said the 
friend was approaching her all the time, verbally and through messages, about the 
investment. She would show Miss D statements and screenshots showing how much money 
she had made and tell Miss D about items she had been able to buy.
Miss D says her friend explained that she had also invested for others and they had made 
money. She told Miss D that she had an investment account and that this was a safe option. 
Miss D was saving money for treatment at the time, and persuaded by what her friend had 
told her and seeing this as a good way to make money she decided to invest. Miss D went 
ahead and made an online payment for £2,500 on 13 January 2020. Her friend said that she 
would make a return of up to £4,000 by 14 February 2020 and that she would get her money 
back no matter what happened, she told Miss D that the investments were in oil.
Shortly after this, while Miss D was on holiday, she received a text from her friend telling her 
that the investment had failed, and all of the money had been lost. Miss D said her friend 
later asked if she wanted to invest more to try and get her money back. Miss D has said that 
she tried to speak to her friend on her return from holiday, but her friend made a complaint 
about Miss D at work, suggesting Miss D was harassing her.
Miss D raised the matter with Lloyds at the end of January 2020. She believed that she had 
been scammed and that Lloyds should have done more to protect her money, so she 
thought the money she lost should be returned to her.
Lloyds looked into the concerns that Miss D had raised. It considered its obligations under 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, of which it is a signatory and sent its 
final response on 21 February 2020, not upholding Miss Ds complaint. In summary, this was 
because it felt Miss D had not met the standards required of the code, as it said she failed to 
discuss the investment or risks involved with her friend before sending the payment. Lloyds 
checked the beneficiary account, which was also held with it, and was able to recover 
£324.47 of the money Miss D had lost. 
Miss D then brought her complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into things. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint, as she considered this was a dispute 
between Miss D and her friend at work, to whom she had made the payment to. In summary, 
she said she couldnt conclusively say that there was a clear intention from the start for Miss 
Ds friend to deceive her. And based on what shed seen, she didnt think Lloyds needed to 
assess the case under the provisions of the CRM code.
Miss D didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary, she said she believes this was 
a clear scam. She didnt consider the bank did everything to protect her money, and she 
questioned why, if Lloyds was able to recover some money, is she not entitled to and 
couldnt it recover the rest of the money she lost.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought very carefully about Lloyds actions, Im not intending to uphold Miss Ds 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for her, and I do have a great deal 
of sympathy for her given her circumstances and what she intended to use this money for. 
But I dont think I can fairly say Lloyds should reimburse her. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss D, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that her money should be returned to her. Its understandable for such a 
significant sum why Miss D feels she has been the victim of a scam. But not all cases where 
individuals have lost significant sums are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model, which Lloyds has 
signed up to and was in force at the time Miss D made this payment.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code applies in the 
circumstances of the payment Miss D made and, in particular, whether Lloyds ought to 
reimburse her under the provisions of the Code. But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt 
apply to all push payments. It says: 
DS2(2) This code does not apply to: 
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier 
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint. 
Our investigator felt the payment Miss D made formed part of a civil dispute between Miss D 
and her friend at work and, as such, is not covered by the Code. Miss D strongly disagrees. 
She feels her work friend has scammed her.
Its clear the agreement Miss D entered into with her work friend did not go as planned, the 
investment she thought she was making didnt deliver the return she was promised, and she 
has lost her money. And I can understand entirely why she feels so strongly about what has 
happened. But I cant safely say with any certainty, with what I know, that Miss Ds friend set 
out with an intent to defraud her. 
I say this because there appears to be a number of factors, in the circumstances of this 
case, that dont carry the typical hallmarks of these particular types of scam;- Miss Ds friend was still contactable after Miss D had made the payment. This is not 
typically the case with fraudsters, who more often than not are not able to be 
contacted after they have taken a victims money.
- Miss D and her friend continued to exchange messages after the payment had been 
made. I do understand that Miss D has said her friend made a workplace complaint 
about her, when she tried to speak with her at work. I have to question whether 
somebody who had intentions of defrauding people would do so at their place of 
work, and then remain working there after receiving payments fraudulently.
- It is not usual behaviour for somebody who is setting out with an intent to defraud to 
provide genuine contact details, as was the case here. More typically with scams 
such as these, the scammers provide false details, so as they cannot be traced after 
defrauding their victims.
- It is also not typical for a fraudster to be so easily traceable and for them to ask for 
funds to be transferred into accounts held in their genuine name. Which Ive seen 
was happened in this case.
- Lloyds has confirmed that the beneficiary account is a legitimate account which had 
been longstanding before the payment was made. From the evidence Ive seen I 
cant fairly or reasonably say the beneficiary account demonstrates the 
characteristics that there was a clear intent to defraud.
While I know Miss D feels strongly about the matter, all things considered, Ive not seen 
anything that I can safely say meets the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. 
This being the case Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply. And I cant fairly or 
reasonably ask Lloyds to refund the money Miss D has lost, as I dont think Lloyds treated 
Miss D unfairly when it declined to refund her under the provisions of the CRM Code. And I 
dont think there was anything else Lloyds could have done to prevent her loss.
I understand Miss D has said that as Lloyds had recovered some money, why couldnt it 
have recovered it all. From what Ive seen at the point Miss D reported to Lloyds that she 
had been scammed, it reviewed the beneficiary account to see if any funds, from the 
payment Miss D made, remained. As a result, it was able to recover £324.47  but no further 
funds remained in the account, so Lloyds didnt have an opportunity to recover any more 
money.
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Miss D and I dont underestimate the 
impact this matter has had on her. But overall, for the reasons Ive explained I cant fairly or 
reasonably ask Lloyds to refund the money Miss D has lost.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint 
against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman