DRN-2456272
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a cancellation 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have travel insurance as a benefit of their building society account.
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs C booked a holiday to Iceland. They were due to fly out on 9 
April 2020 and return on 14 April 2020. However, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. So Mr and Mrs 
C had to cancel their trip. 
Mr and Mrs C requested a refund of their flight costs from their airline. The airline explained 
that Mr and Mrs Cs flights were still running. It said Mr and Mrs C could potentially cancel 
and get a partial refund of their unused airport taxes. Or they could have a credit for the full 
booking amount which could be put towards any flight with it and would be valid for three 
years from the issue date. As Mr and Mrs C wanted a cash refund for their flight costs rather 
than a voucher, they made a claim on their travel insurance policy.
UKI turned down Mr and Mrs Cs claim. It said the cancellation section of the policy 
specifically excluded costs which were recoverable from elsewhere. In this case, Mr and Mrs 
Cs airline had offered them a credit voucher, so it felt they hadnt suffered a financial loss. It 
said that Mr and Mrs C would need to get in touch with their airline if they wanted to pursue a 
cash refund.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with UKIs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They said they didnt think the voucher was commensurate with a cash refund. 
Thats because their trip had been booked for a specific purpose and they had no need to 
use the airline in the future. They told us the cost of flights with the airline had gone up, so 
they wouldnt have been able to book equivalent ones.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. He thought theyd 
been able to recover their costs from their airline. He didnt think the terms of the voucher 
were overly restrictive. And he thought Mr and Mrs C would likely be able to use the voucher 
within three years. So he felt it was fair for UKI to turn down Mr and Mrs Cs claim.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed. They referred to an investigation which has been launched by the 
Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) to look into into how airlines have dealt with 
refund requests from people who couldnt lawfully travel. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for UKI to turn down Mr and Mrs Cs claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered the terms of Mr and Mrs Cs 
policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide whether UKI handled it fairly and 
reasonably.
Ive first looked carefully at the terms of Mr and Mrs Cs policy. Section 1 sets out the 
cancellation cover that UKI provides of up to £5000 per insured person and the specific 
insured events which are covered. One of these insured events is the FCO advising against 
all but essential travel to a policyholders booked destination.
Theres no dispute that as a result of the FCO advising against all but essential travel on 17 
March 2020, Mr and Mrs C werent able to travel as theyd planned on 9 April 2020. So I can 
understand why they think that UKI should cover and pay their claim.
But the cancellation section of the policy also includes a list of specific things that UKI 
doesnt cover. The policy says:
We will not pay for
-Recoverable costs
The policy defines what UKI means by recoverable costs:. It says these are Any costs that 
you can recover from elsewhere.
UKI says that as Mr and Mrs Cs airline has offered them a credit voucher for the full value of 
their trip, they havent suffered a financial loss which is covered by the policy. And it says 
that Mr and Mrs C will need to seek a cash refund directly from their airline if they wish to do 
so.
Ive seen the airlines offer of a credit voucher to Mr and Mrs C. It says that they would be 
able to cancel (their) booking for a Travel Credit of the entire booking amount that will be 
valid for three years from the date of the issue of the Travel Credit. 
From what Ive seen, the credit voucher was for the full value of Mr and Mrs Cs original 
booking costs. So I think it was fair for UKI to conclude that they havent suffered a financial 
loss because the airline was offering Mr and Mrs C a credit voucher for the full amount 
theyd paid out. It doesnt appear that the terms of the credit voucher restricted Mr and Mrs C 
to flying to their original booked destination. It seems that theyre able to book flights within 
any of the airlines scheduled routes. And the voucher is valid for a period of three years 
after the date of issue. I dont think its unreasonable for UKI to conclude that Mr and Mrs C 
might be able to make use of the voucher during this timeframe. So in my view, the terms of 
the credit voucher arent overly restrictive.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs C might prefer to get a cash refund from their airline. 
Especially as I appreciate that future travel plans are currently uncertain. But as Ive 
explained above, I think it was fair for UKI to consider that Mr and Mrs C havent suffered a 
financial loss in this case. Im also persuaded that the terms of their voucher seem flexible. 
And we have no power to consider complaints about how airlines handle refund claims, 
because the operation of flights arent a regulated financial services activity. If Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with the offer theyve received from their airline, its open to them to complain to 
the airline directly or to get in touch with the Civil Aviation Authority. 
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Cs position, I think it was fair for UKI to turn 
down their claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman