DRN-4045514
The complaint
Mr J complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard have handled his 
two Barclaycard accounts.
What happened
In 2022 Mr J fell behind on the monthly repayments for his two Barclaycard credit card 
accounts. Barclaycard wrote to Mr J in April 2022 to say theyd suspended both of his credit 
card accounts due to non-payment of his monthly contractual minimum payments.
Mr J made payments on 28 April 2022. And he called Barclaycard to confirm the payments 
had been received and that the account suspension lifted so he could use the cards again. 
The call agent couldnt see the transactions as Mr J had only just made the payments. But 
Mr J says he was told it could take 24 hours for the payments to show, and thats when the 
account suspension would be lifted.
By 30 April 2022 Mr Js accounts still werent active so he contacted Barclaycard to raise a 
complaint. Barclaycard responded to Mr Js complaint and apologised that Mr J felt that he 
was incorrectly advised that his accounts would be reinstated if the payments that had been 
requested were made. But they explained that the payments were received late, despite 
Barclaycard making requests to Mr J for payments, which werent responded to.
Unhappy with Barclaycards response, Mr J contacted our service to further his complaint. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Js complaint and didnt think Barclaycard had done 
anything wrong, and so didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr J rejected the investigators findings. He felt the investigator was siding with Barclaycard. 
He said that it wasnt fair that he wasnt given notice of when his accounts were going to 
close, and that he was given incorrect information when he called Barclaycard about the 
status of his accounts. So, the case has been passed to me to consider.
But from what Mr J said, events concerning his accounts with Barclaycard have moved on. 
Barclaycard has now defaulted the accounts and closed them. And this information has been 
recorded on Mr Js credit file. So, the complaint has been passed to me and I issued a 
provisional decision.
What I said in my provisional decision dated 17 February 2023
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account suspension
Mr J doesnt appear to question Barclaycards decision to suspend his accounts as his 
payments were initially late. But Mr J says Barclaycard gave him a deadline in which to 
make payments to the accounts for the account suspensions to be lifted. And he says he 
made the requested payments on time and therefore, the account suspensions should have 
been lifted. Barclaycard say that they explained to Mr J that his Online Banking access 
would be reinstated and his accounts visible to him, so he could be aware of the up-to-date 
outstanding balances. But it says Mr J wasnt told that the accounts wouldnt be reinstated 
for the cards to be used.
Ive listened to the call Mr J had with the Barclaycard on 28 April 2022. I accept that the 
information given to Mr J over the phone couldve been clearer than it was. But I havent 
seen anything to suggest that Mr J was told that it was guaranteed the account suspensions 
would be lifted if the payments had been made by the deadline. From what Ive heard, the 
call handler was answering Mr Js questions based on the information he was giving her, 
rather than being fully aware of his actual account statuses, or what correspondence had 
been sent about the actions Barclaycard was intending to take. 
Im therefore persuaded that Mr J wasnt incorrectly informed about the account suspension 
based on the information he provided during the call.
Defaulted accounts
Mr J says the accounts should not have been closed and defaulted as he made the required 
payments on time to avoid any further action being taken. He also says he wasnt told the 
accounts would be closed. I accept that Mr J wasnt told  in April 2022, that his accounts 
would be closed. But from what Ive seen it seems that Barclaycards decision to close Mr Js 
accounts was made because  after the above-mentioned payments in April 2022, Mr J 
made no further payments to the account.
In this respect, Barclaycard has provided copies of letters they sent to Mr J about both 
accounts during September and October 2022. Having reviewed the letters, Im satisfied that 
Barclaycard notified Mr J that payments were due in October 2022 and the consequences of 
the payments not being made. This included the account being closed and subsequently 
defaulted. Ive also seen that when a payment was not made, Barclaycard confirmed that the 
account had been closed and the default registered.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclaycard have treated Mr J fairly in respect of the action theyve 
taken since April 2022. The terms of Mr Js account make provision for an account to be 
closed and defaulted. I note Mr J has mentioned that he feels that the terms are unfair. The 
Information Commissionaires Office (ICO) set guidelines for lenders to follow. The ICO 
guidelines say that a lender can default an account when payments are three to six months 
in arrears. And thats what happened here. So, I wont be asking Barclaycard to remove the 
defaults or reinstate Mr Js accounts. I know Mr J will be disappointed, but Im not intending 
to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to send any additional comments or evidence they had before reaching 
a final decision. Barclaycard responded to say they didnt have anything further to add.
Mr J didnt agree with my provisional findings. He said my decision sided with Barclaycard 
which he didnt think was fair. He reiterated that hed paid what Barclaycard asked to avoid 
the accounts being defaulted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.While I acknowledge Mr Js most recent comments, this issue was addressed in my 
provisional decision. As neither party have provided any new information or evidence to 
consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusion reached in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, Im not upholding Mr Js 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman