DRN-4430932
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty (Drafty) carried out the wrong 
type of credit search when he applied for a credit facility. As a result, he says this declined 
search prevented him from obtaining other credit.
What happened
Mr M approached Drafty for a running credit facility in February 2021. His application was
declined, and no facility was granted.
Drafty then contacted Mr M on 11 January 2023, through its sister company to explain that it
had discovered that when Mr M applied for his credit facility, Drafty had carried out the
wrong type of credit search. Drafty had carried out a hard credit search rather than a soft
credit search. Drafty at this point told Mr M it was contacting the credit reference agencies to 
have the search removed from his credit report.
Mr M was unhappy about this and so raised a complaint because he said he had issues with
his credit file, had been refused credit and Mr M said Draftys incorrect entry contributed to
this. He asked for a payment of compensation.
Draftys sister company responded and explained that while Mr M may have been previously
declined for credit, those providers can and do look at more than just a credit score. It
concluded it was:
extremely unlikely that the effect of the search mark we left would, in isolation,
have any meaningfully bearing on your credit reference agency score.
No compensation was offered to Mr M and unhappy with this he referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman.
Due to the sister company issuing the response to Mr Ms complaint that is who the
complaint was set up against when it was referred to the Financial Ombudsman. Which also
meant, the sister company provided its file in relation to a loan granted by it. The case was
reviewed by an adjudicator who didnt uphold it because he didnt think it was wrong that a
hard credit search was carried out.
Mr M didnt agree saying Drafty had accepted it ought to have carried out a soft credit
search. As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold 
Mr Ms complaint. Both parties were asked to provide any new submissions as soon as 
possible, but in any event, no later than 1 November 2023. 
Drafty acknowledged the provisional decision and didnt provide any further submissions. 
Mr M responded with two emails, Ive summarised his responses below:
weve confirmed Drafty made an error, yet weve asked for the impossible in asking 
him to obtain a copy of his credit report from around two years ago,
Mr M had other hard searches around the same time that wouldve impacted his 
credit score and Mr M said this hard search impacted his credit score,
had Drafty noticed the error soon after the search then he couldve started the 
complaint earlier and wouldve been in a position to provide further evidence; and  
Mr M is being punished in the outcome that was provisionally reached through no 
fault of my own. 
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its worth saying here that when the complaint was referred here, given Draftys sister
company had provided the response to the complaint it was then incorrectly set up against
the sister company rather than Drafty. This is the reason why I am issuing a provisional
decision, and to provide further reasoning as to why I am not asking Drafty to pay any
compensation.
I think it would be helpful to outline the differences between the two types of credit search.
Drafty, incorrectly carried out a hard credit search and by doing so it would leave a record
on Mr Ms credit report for other credit providers to see  if a credit search was carried out.
Too many hard credit searches can, in the short term impact a customers credit score. A
well-known credit reference agency says that hard searches typically fall off a customers
credit report after 12 months.
Whereas a soft search doesnt leave a record on a customers credit report and therefore
other credit companies would be unaware that a search had taken place.
In the email to Mr M of 11 January 2023, Drafty has accepted it made a mistake, when Mr M
applied for the facility a soft search ought to have been conducted instead of the hard
search which was carried out.
Further enquires were made with Drafty about this error and it provided a link to its website,
which confirmed that as part of the application process a soft search would be recorded on
the credit file  meaning that this would be visible to Mr M but not to other credit providers. It
also explained that this error was discovered during an internal periodic review.
To me it is clear, an error has been made here, the wrong type of search was recorded on
Mr Ms credit file. Drafty has accepted this and has already requested this search be
removed from Mr Ms credit file, which is a reasonable course of action.
However, Mr M has said this impacted his ability to obtain further credit and caused
problems with his credit file  Mr M feels a payment of compensation is due, and that is what
Ive focussed on in this decision.
In saying that, Mr M hasnt been able to supply a copy of his credit file, so I dont know how
much of an impact the incorrect type of credit search had on Mr M. For example, I havent
seen any evidence to show that Mr M was declined further credit solely because of what
Drafty was incorrectly reporting. I also cant rule out, given what one credit reference agency
has said that that the search was removed after 12 months  which is typically the case 
albeit this doesnt always happen.
In addition, I cant say what the impact was on Mr Ms credit score by the search being
incorrectly recorded and secondly, how much of an impact that credit search played on other
declined applications which Mr M may have had.There are of course a number of reasons why credit maybe declined, too many hard
searches can in some instances play a part  and so its possible that in some capacity
Draftys record did impact his applications. Or, Mr M may have been overindebted or had
adverse credit file data. I just dont know.
But without any evidence to show that there was a financial loss or that Mr M had been
caused material distress or inconvenience by Draftys actions I cant require Drafty to offer
Mr M any payment of compensation.
So overall, while Drafty did make an error in what it reported to the credit reference agency,
in this case I cant award a payment of compensation because I dont know and cant say to
what extent Draftys error caused Mr M other problems with his credit file and or other credit
applications.
I am therefore intending to not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Drafty didnt have anything further to add, but Ive thought about what Mr M has said, and 
having done so, Im still of the view that while Drafty made a mistake with the type of credit 
search, it doesnt need to do anything else to resolve the complaint. Ive explained why 
below. 
Once it has been decided that something has gone wrong, the role of the 
Financial Ombudsman is put a consumer back into the position they wouldve been in (as far 
as it is possible) had the error not been made.
In this complaint, the wrong type of credit search was conducted. However, just because an 
error has been made that doesnt automatically lead to a payment of compensation - either 
to cover any financial loss or any distress and inconvenience (or for any of the other reason 
that an ombudsman can make a financial award for). 
Having considered the individual circumstances of this complaint, Mr M has said that he had 
problems with his credit file and had been refused credit. And so, for me to make an award 
for any possible financial loss, Id have to be satisfied that Drafty caused the difficulties and 
led to the credit being refused in the first place. 
I acknowledge that having a hard credit search on the credit file may have impacted Mr Ms 
ability to obtain further credit. But to what extent it did, I cant say and dont know. Indeed, 
Mr M has said he had other hard credit searches at the time. As such, given that Mr M said 
about the other hard credit searches (and it sounds like he mayve had more than one) I 
cant rule out the possibility that he wouldve still been declined credit, even if the Drafty hard 
search wasnt present on his credit file. 
So, in the circumstances, I cant reasonably ask Drafty to make a payment, when it cant be 
said with any certainty that its error had an impact on Mr Ms declined credit applications. 
Its also worth saying that any award made by the Financial Ombudsman isnt designed to 
fine or punish Drafty for the error that was made  the awards arent punitive. This means 
that, just because an error has been made, it doesnt always lead to a compensation 
payment. I did consider as part of my provisional decision whether a payment ought to be made for 
any distress and inconvenience caused. But in this case, for two years neither party knew 
there was a problem with the credit search. And Ive not seen anything to suggest that Drafty 
knew of the problem earlier than it did. 
And so, when Drafty proactively contacted Mr M telling him what had happened it offered, in 
my view, a fair solution  to remove the hard search from his credit file. Its also the case 
that I cant reasonably conclude that Mr M experienced significant distress and 
inconvenience, given that he wasnt aware of the error, that is until Drafty had contacted him 
to say what it was doing to put matters right. 
In the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied the actions already taken by Drafty were 
fair and reasonable and it doesnt need to do any more. Because of this, I do not uphold 
Mr Ms complaint. 
So, Ive reached the same conclusions as I reached before, that is while an error has been 
made Drafty doesnt need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman