DRN-2056747
The complaint
Mr N complains Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) gave him incorrect information 
relating to his pension benefits and failed to provide his pension benefits since his planned
retirement date in October 2019.
What happened
In March 1989, Mr N took out a Commercial Union (now Aviva) rebate only
Personal Pension Plan in order to contract-out of the State Earnings Related
Pension Scheme (SERPS). He also took out two further personal pensions with Norwich 
Union (also now Aviva). 
In March 2019, Mr N contacted Aviva to discuss his pension plans. Aviva arranged for an 
adviser to call and sent an email detailing the three pension plans. The adviser held an initial 
telephone conversation on 9 April 2019 and there was a second telephone conversation on 
12 April 2019. The adviser then held a face to face meeting with Mr N on 16 April 2019.
On both the 9 April 2019 (telephone meeting) and 16 May 2019 (face to face meeting) the 
adviser told Mr N, one of the pension plans had a Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR). Based 
on this information Mr N took some financial decisions and commitments.
Following the meeting in May, the adviser issued a letter confirming Mr N had decided not to 
proceed with the advice service because he had no demonstrable requirement for income 
or capital at this time. The adviser went on to say he had ceased the advice process and 
had not provided Mr N with a personal recommendation. 
On 10 July 2019, the adviser contacted Mr N and told him some of the information hed 
previously given was incorrect and that the pension didnt have a GAR. Mr N says he made 
some financial decisions and commitments based on the information the adviser gave him, 
had he been given the correct information he says he would have made a different decision.
Mr N complained to Aviva about the incorrect information and he says he had asked for 
retirement quotes from October 2019 on his 69th birthday but hadnt received them.
In its final response dated 5 March 2020, Aviva partially upheld Mr Ns complaint. It said it 
couldnt see any request from Mr N to receive his pension benefits in October 2019 nor had 
it provided a quote to this effect. It said if Mr N had requested to take his pension benefits in 
October 2019 the adviser would have made a suitable recommendation after the meeting in 
May 2019. It went onto say Mr Ns letter dated 6 November 2019 also didnt mention any 
plans to take his benefits in the previous month. It did acknowledge the adviser had given 
incorrect information regarding the GAR. It said the incorrect information was given in April 
2019 and corrected in July 2019. It said although it appreciated this had inconvenienced Mr 
N it hadnt seen any evidence of a financial loss. It offered to compensate Mr N £750 for the 
trouble and upset this matter had caused.
Mr N remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr N. She didnt find any evidence that Mr N had asked 
to take his benefits in October 2019 or that Aviva had at any time produced a retirement 
quote for that date. The retirement pack it issued in March 2019 had a benefit date of 
October 2020. She also found the incorrect information regarding the GAR, whilst 
disappointing, had been corrected in July 2019. She didnt agree Aviva should have to 
honour a GAR that hadnt been applied to Mr Ns pension policy or backdate his pension 
benefits to October 2019. But she acknowledged the incorrect information had 
inconvenienced Mr N and didnt doubt he had taken financial decisions on this basis. But as 
there was no evidence of any financial loss, she found Avivas offer of £750 to be fair and 
reasonable and didnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr N disagreed. He says the adviser promised him accurate figures based on taking his 
retirement benefits in October 2019 and as yet he hasnt received anything despite chasing 
Aviva constantly. He feels he has suffered a loss as the markets have changed since 
October 2019 and this puts him at a disadvantage. He further says that £750 doesnt reflect 
the impact the incorrect GAR information had on his wellbeing and the trouble and upset the 
continued delays to provide the information he requested has had. He asked for an 
ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the information from both parties afresh. Having done so, Ive reached the 
same view as the investigator. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr N, Ill 
explain why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Firstly, I think its important to say my role here is to consider whats fair and reasonable 
based on the evidence available to me. Its not for this service to punish a business or 
recommend punitive awards  that is a matter for the Financial Conduct Authority.
Theres no dispute that Aviva gave Mr N incorrect information that his pension policy had a 
GAR attached to it. What I have to consider is how this incorrect information affected the 
financial decisions Mr N made. 
Aviva accept its adviser told Mr N a GAR applied to one of his pension plans in April 2019 
and corrected its mistake in July 2019. Mr N has said on this basis he agreed to undertake a 
financial commitment to a family member. When he learned of the correct information, he felt 
obliged to maintain his commitment although this left him in a worse financial position than 
he would otherwise have been. He asked for the GAR to be honoured by Aviva.Having looked at the information provided by Mr N and Aviva, the adviser gave Mr N an 
estimated annual income of around £10,000 based on the policy having a GAR, but no 
accurate figures were provided by Aviva and within 3 months it had made Mr N aware of the 
error. I havent seen any evidence of the detail of the financial commitment or of any loss, 
but its clear to me that Mr N had to change his plans and work around the commitments he 
made. This clearly caused him stress and inconvenience, but I cant fairly say that Aviva 
should have to honour a guarantee that has never been part of Mr Ns pension policy since 
inception in 1989, for the three months an error was made, and then corrected. 
Ive then looked at the correspondence between the parties regarding the disputed date of 
October 2019, when Mr N says he informed Aviva he wanted to take his retirement benefits. 
Ive looked at the statements sent by Aviva. The statement dated May 2016, clearly shows 
the retirement date to be October 2020. Although, this doesnt mean Mr N couldnt have 
changed his mind and was eligible to take his pension benefits a year earlier. But I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest he had informed Aviva of his intention to do so. The 
retirement pack sent in March 2019 had a retirement benefit date of October 2020. The 
adviser letter in May 2019 says Mr N had no immediate plans to take his benefits and the 
email of 5 September and subsequent letter of October 2019 from Mr N to Aviva has no 
mention of this date. From what Ive seen the first time Mr N stated his intention to Aviva was 
in his letter dated January 2020. 
I of course, wasnt present during Mr Ns discussions with the Aviva adviser and so I cant be 
certain of what was discussed. But on balance, if Mr N wanted to take his retirement benefits 
in October 2019, Im persuaded he wouldve responded to the letter of May 2019, which said 
the adviser had ceased the process because he had no imminent plans for income or 
capital, before his email in September 2019. Further, I wouldve have expected to see some 
mention in his September email or the letter in October 2019.
On balance, I havent seen anything to confirm Aviva were aware of Mr Ns intention to take 
his retirement benefits in October 2019 and so I cant fairly hold them responsible for not 
responding with the figures Mr N has requested. I appreciate Mr N raises the issue of falling 
markets since 2019 and potential losses he may have suffered. But all the valuations and 
statements that have been provided clearly say The values quoted in this letter are not 
guaranteed and are for information only. Values may vary daily. Investments into unit linked 
funds can go down as well as up.
Mr N also points out he may be entitled to an enhanced annuity, but this would be subject to 
medical underwriting which as far as I can see hasnt been completed and so the terms of 
the annuity wouldnt be known until then.
I can see that Aviva emailed the requested quotes for his annuity payments on 18 
September 2020. I appreciate this is sometime after Mr N raised the concerns in January 
2020. But I think Aviva were investigating whether it had failed to act on an instruction and if 
so, what actions it should take. Ultimately, it concluded it hadnt been aware Mr wanted to 
receive his retirement benefits in October 2019 and as Mr N brought his complaint to this 
service it awaited an outcome. It accepted it gave Mr N incorrect information and that it had 
taken a considerable amount of time to respond to Mr N and offered £750 in recognition of 
this.
I understand Mr N has experienced ill-health in recent months and I can see this matter has 
cause him a great deal of trouble and upset. I dont find it fair and reasonable to ask Aviva to 
pay a GAR in relation to Mr Ns retirement benefits or to backdate Mr Ns annuity payments 
to October 2019. But I agree Aviva gave him incorrect information and raised his expectation, Im persuaded its award of £750 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
So, I wont be telling Aviva to do anything more to put things right and I make no further 
award.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman