DRN-3935199
The complaint
Mrs S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt refunded payments she made for a course. 
What happened
In August 2019, Mrs S enrolled on a six month educational course. She paid a total of 
£9,500 for the course which was due to start in October 2019. She paid for it in three 
separate transactions using her HSBC credit card. 
Mrs S says that in September 2020 she was part of a joint complaint made by some of the 
students to the course provider about the quality of the course and false promises about 
what would be included. She also made an individual complaint about this to the course 
provider in July 2021. 
The course provider didnt uphold her complaint. It didnt think the course had been 
misrepresented and although some of the teaching was impacted by the global pandemic in 
early 2020, this was outside of its control and a revised timetable was provided. 
Mrs S approached HSBC for assistance in getting a refund for the course fees. HSBC 
considered Mrs S claim for a refund under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(section 75). 
HSBC didnt agree it had any liability to provide a refund to Mrs S. This is because it said 
that Mrs S hadnt adequately demonstrated there had been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the course provider. Mrs S complained about that outcome, but HSBC 
didnt uphold the complaint, it said it had acted fairly in declining the claim. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that HSBC had 
acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mrs S claim and complaint as there was insufficient 
evidence to demonstrate a breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
Mrs S didnt agree. In summary, she said that she had provided enough information to show 
there was a breach of contract. Further, she said she had recently discovered the course 
wasnt accredited and she had been led to believe it would be. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S clearly feels very strongly about how she has been treated by the course provider. 
However, my role is to decide whether HSBC, not the course provider, has treated her fairly 
and reasonably when declining her section 75 claim and subsequent complaint. 
The effect of section 75 is that if Mrs S has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against the course provider, she can bring a like claim against HSBC 
(who provided the credit for the purchase of the course). This is provided that certain 
conditions are met. For completeness, Im satisfied those conditions are met here. 
Mrs S says the course did not meet her expectations and has raised numerous concerns 
about it. These include that: she says she understood it would be a full-time course but 
instead only a portion of the week was tutor led, a number of classroom sessions were 
cancelled without notice and access to practical training (rather than just theory) was far 
more limited than shed been led to believe. She has also recently found out the course 
wasnt accredited. 
Ive seen a copy of the course schedule which I understand was given to Mrs S before the 
course began. This made it clear that a large portion of the course wouldnt be classroom 
based and there was a significant proportion of self-directed study involved as well as self-
led project work. While Mrs S has provided a copy of one email she sent in February 2020 
indicating three planned classroom sessions were cancelled at short notice, Ive not seen 
anything to persuade me those sessions werent re-arranged and delivered at a later date. 
From what Ive seen, it appears the course was completed successfully. 
The course timetable appears to have had a large portion of time dedicated to practical, 
rather than theory. Mrs S indicated the purpose of her enrolling on the course was to get 
more practical experience in this field (she says she already held a related masters 
qualification which she says was entirely theory based). So, it seems to me that if practical 
training wasnt available or was limited, and this was one of the key reasons for her enrolling, 
that she would have complained about this from the beginning. However, I cant see any 
contemporaneous evidence that Mrs S complained at the time she was on the course about 
the lack of practical training.
Overall, while I dont doubt that Mrs S has been disappointed with her experience on the 
course, Ive not seen anything persuasive to demonstrate HSBC acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in concluding there was insufficient evidence of a breach of contract for which 
it would be jointly liable for. 
Mrs S also says that she was led to believe the course was accredited and has since found 
out this isnt the case. I note Mrs S has only raised concerns about this accreditation issue 
after an independent dispute scheme for higher education couldnt look at her complaint 
about the course provider because the course wasnt a higher education one. The reference 
to accreditation in that letter appears to relate to the fact that the course did not lead to a 
higher education qualification on completion. 
Having reviewed the information Mrs S was provided prior to signing up to the course, Ive 
not seen anything to indicate that Mrs S was led to believe completion of the course would 
lead to a higher education qualification. Im therefore not persuaded there was any 
misrepresentation for which HSBC could be held jointly responsible for. 
Overall, Ive not seen anything to persuade me that HSBC were jointly liable under section 
75 for any breach of contract or misrepresentation. I therefore dont think it needs to do 
anything to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman