DRN-2341328
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Lloyds Bank Plc said it would close their accounts following an 
incident in the branch. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr and Mrs T visited a Lloyds branch to withdraw cash from their business 
account. Mrs T said she parked her car while Mr T queued, but upon returning to the branch 
Lloyds staff were asking him to leave, and were telling him it would be closing their account.
Lloyds said this was because Mr T had attempted to withdraw funds using Mrs Ts card, and 
that after refusing his request, he snatched the card from the advisor, and began shouting at 
her and other staff members. Because of this, and previous concerns over both Mr and 
Mrs Ts behaviour, it asked Mr T to leave and said it would be closing the account. This was 
followed up in writing the same day.
Mrs T complained and said Mr T had a medical condition which caused him to stammer and 
become agitated in stressful situations, and that he had provided a medical card explaining 
this. She said that after Mr T attempted the withdrawal using her card and this was refused, 
he tried to provide his own card. But said the cashier serving him, and another member of 
staff, demanded he give Mrs Ts card back which panicked him. She said she felt Lloyds 
shouldve been more patient and waited for her to return to carry out the transaction. 
In response, Lloyds said it wasnt aware of Mr Ts condition at the time, so it was right to 
start the account closure process due to his aggressive behaviour. But it said that as its now 
aware of his condition, and due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it would delay closure of the 
accounts to allow Mr and Mrs T sufficient time to make alternative banking arrangements. 
Unhappy with the Lloyds response, Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint to our service.  
An investigator independently reviewed the complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld, as 
he thought Lloyds were entitled to close the account in the circumstances. But Mrs T 
maintains that Lloyds treated her and Mr T unfairly. So as no agreement has been reached, 
the case has come to me to decide. 
Lloyds final response also mentioned a failed payment transfer, which it paid Mrs T £75 for 
the inconvenience caused. Mrs T hasnt raised this point with us directly or in response to 
the investigators opinion, so I havent considered this when reaching my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint, the key points for me to decide are whether I think Lloyds 
terms and conditions allow it to close Mr and Mrs Ts accounts at this time. And whether I 
think it can do so fairly in the circumstances.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ts account with Lloyds state: 
We may stop providing you with the service or end our relationship with you entirely; at any 
time for any reason by giving two months written notice to you (provided that we also give 
you any other notice that we are required to give to you by law).
Lloyds has shown it wrote to Mr and Mrs T on 4 March 2020 following their visit, explaining it 
would be closing their accounts on 4 May 2020. And Lloyds has since confirmed that this 
was due to Mr and Mrs Ts behaviour in branch that day. So Im satisfied Lloyds has 
provided Mr and Mrs T with a valid reason for the account closure, and gave them sufficient 
notice as to when their accounts would close.
But just because Lloyds acted in line with the accounts terms and conditions, this may not 
always lead to a fair outcome. So, I need to decide whether I think Lloyds considered 
Mr and Mrs Ts particular circumstances, before choosing to close their accounts. 
Mrs Ts explained that Mr Ts condition can cause him to become anxious and stammer. Ive 
also seen a letter from Mr Ts speech and language therapist that explains that people with 
his condition may not function well in high stress situations. So I can see how this situation 
may have been stressful for Mr T. And Id expect Lloyds (if it knew about his condition) to 
make allowances to support him where possible.
Mrs T said that Mr T presented a card to the cashier which explains his medical condition 
and asks people to be patient with him. She accepts he then provided the wrong bank card 
to attempt the cash withdrawal, but says that instead of Lloyds waiting for her to return or 
taking the time to help, it instead further provoked him by saying this is not your card, you 
are committing fraud. She said this showed no understanding on Lloyds part of Mr Ts 
medical condition.
The testimonies from both the advisor serving Mr T and the branch manager who intervened 
in the situation however, suggest that they did try to help. And they include comments 
around Mr T physically snatching the debit card from the advisor, shouting and swearing, 
pointing close to the advisors face, physically banging on the door of the branch after he left, 
shouting at other customers and refusing to take a seat when asked to. And both have 
spoken about feeling threatened by Mr Ts body language, and have said they found Mrs Ts 
behaviour unacceptable and upsetting too.
Cases like this can be difficult to decide, especially where each partys version of events 
differ so much as they do in this case. So I need to decide, on balance, what I think most 
likely happened. 
Mrs Ts version of events is based on the situation that escalated once she returned to the 
branch, and also takes into account Mr Ts testimony about what happened. But Ive also 
considered that she wasnt present at the time the main incident took place. 
On the other hand, I have two similar testimonies from two members of staff at Lloyds, both 
present for at least parts of the incident, and both set out a similar version of events. They 
explain that Mr T was acting in an aggressive manner  with the cashier referring to Mr T 
snatching the card from her hand, and the branch manager referring to Mr T physically 
banging on the door of the branch. 
While I expect Lloyds to support customers where they may have additional needs, its 
unclear as to how much Lloyds knew about Mr Ts condition. It says it knew about his stroke, 
but not necessarily how this impacted his behaviour. But Lloyds has a duty to protect its staff. And I dont think its unfair of Lloyds to restrict a customers access, or close an 
account, where it feels its staff are being put in a vulnerable position. 
From looking at all the evidence provided, including two testimonies from two staff present at 
the time, I think its more likely than not Mr T was acting aggressively, and therefore, I think it 
was reasonable for Lloyds to take action. 
I appreciate this was a difficult situation for all parties concerned, and I accept that Mr T has 
a medical condition which may have exacerbated his response. But on this occasion, having 
taken that into account, I still dont think Lloyds has acted unreasonably in informing Mr and 
Mrs T of its intention to close their accounts. So I wont be upholding this part of their 
complaint.
Covid-19s made things difficult for customers and businesses, and switching bank accounts 
at this time may not be as easy as it once was. So while I think it was fair of Lloyds to start the 
account closure process, Id expect it to take the present climate into account when deciding 
to do so. I can see that despite Lloyds informing Mr and Mrs T it would close their accounts 
in May 2020, its agreed for them to remain open until 15 December 2020, giving them an 
additional seven months to make alternative banking arrangements. I think this is 
reasonable.
I appreciate this may come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs T, but in summary, I think 
Lloyds was justified in choosing to close their accounts, and I think it took sufficient steps to 
support them when doing so. So for these reasons, I wont be instructing Lloyds to take any 
further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman