DRN-3927582
The complaint
Mr M complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) 
advised him to take out a pension plan with it rather than paying additional contributions to 
his employers Group Personal Pension plan (GPP) which he says would have had lower 
charges. He would like compensation for the losses caused. 
What happened
Mr M is represented in his complaint by a claims management company but for ease I will 
just refer to Mr M in this decision.
Mr M says he was a member of his employers GPP and wanted to make further pension 
contributions. He says he was advised to take out two personal pension plans by Sun Life in 
April 1995. Mr M says he only recently became aware that the charges of the Sun Life plan 
would be very likely to be considerably higher than those of the GPP and he should have 
been advised to make additional contributions to that instead. 
Mr M complained to Sun Life, saying he wasnt told about charges at the time. It didnt 
uphold his complaint. It said its records showed that hed wanted to maximise his pension 
contributions. And one plan had been arranged to make use of carry forward relief in respect 
of early tax years. The other had been set up to pay monthly contributions in the current year 
and going forward. It said this advice was appropriate. 
Sun Life said Mr Ms employers pension wasnt an occupational scheme and there wouldnt 
have been an additional voluntary contribution option. It said the employer had set its own 
contribution rate at 7.5% and the employee contribution rate at 5%. So, it was likely these 
contribution rates were fixed and there was no scope to pay further contributions to the GPP. 
It also said the charges on its own plans were clearly disclosed on its illustration for him to 
be able to make a comparison with the GPP, so he was fully aware of the charges. 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but he didnt 
uphold it.
Our investigator said it was likely that the charges on the PPP would have been higher than 
the GPP, but the contribution rates were set by the employer. And as Mr M had wanted to 
make further pension contributions arranging the PPP was an appropriate arrangement to 
receive these. 
Mr M disagreed. He said he understood many GPPs allowed employees to make additional 
contributions if they wished too which would have benefited from the discounted charging 
basis offered by the GPP. Our investigator asked Sun Life what evidence it had about this. 
It said that no details about this had been recorded at the time. However, it said as the 
advice was given in March 1995 there was no requirement at that time to record what 
discussions, if any, took place relating to fees and charges. Our investigator asked Mr M 
whether he had evidence that he could have paid the additional contribution to the GPP. Mr 
M said his advisers had told him that being able to pay additional contributions to a GPP was 
commonly available.  
Our investigator said neither Mr M or Sun Life had been able to provide sufficient evidence 
about whether it was possible or not to make further contributions to the GPP. But he said 
Mr M had made AVC contributions in a previous employment and as he wanted to make 
further contributions with his current employer it was likely he would have explored whether 
this was an option. And the fact that he had approached Sun Life for advice suggested that it 
wasnt. So, based on this the most likely scenario was that Mr M couldnt make further 
contributions through his employers GPP and Sun Lifes personal pension was a suitable 
arrangement at the time. 
Mr M confirmed his complaint was in respect of the regular contribution plan only. He said 
our investigator had ignored the fact that Sun Lifes adviser was remunerated by commission 
and couldnt be expected to provide impartial advice. He said he was a victim to Sun Lifes 
inability to keep sufficient records to support its position.
As Mr M doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
I know my decision will disappoint Mr M, so Ill explain why Ive come to it. There is quite 
limited evidence available and the events in question occurred nearly 30 years ago. And 
where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Mr M hasnt complained that the advice to pay further pension contributions was wrong or 
that he couldnt afford the contributions recommended by Sun Life. Instead, he says losses 
may have been incurred through paying higher charges than he would have done had he 
increased contributions to his employers GPP. It may well be the case that the charges on 
the GPP were lower than under Sun Lifes plan. And whether the contribution rates to Mr Ms 
GPP were fixed or not has been debated at some length.
In many cases contribution rates werent fixed and could be varied at the discretion of the 
employer, however in the circumstances here I dont think whether the contribution rate was 
fixed or not, is relevant. 
Sun Life could only provide advice about itss own products, which it should have confirmed 
to Mr M at the first opportunity. And when the recommendation was made to Mr M, the 
financial services regulations in place didnt require it to consider the features and charges of 
any existing arrangement as an independent financial adviser would have needed to do. 
Instead, the regulations required Sun Life to: 
not make any inaccurate or unfair criticisms of other investment contracts or of any 
other method of saving or investment
And in advising an investor as to the suitability for that investor of any investment 
contract, have regard, in particular, to the investors financial position generally; to 
any rights he might have under an occupational pension scheme  
A GPP isnt an occupational pension scheme. So even if the GPP charges were lower than 
its own contract Sun Life didnt need to consider this in recommending its own product. Had 
it voluntarily considered the features and charges of the GPP, it would have needed to have 
done so fairly to ensure its recommendations were still suitable. 
And from the available evidence it appears no comparison was made to the GPP at the time. 
The fact find doesnt even record the provider of the GPP. It does note the contribution rates 
in place but doesnt confirm that these are fixed as concluded in the final response provided 
for Mr Ms complaint. And theres no evidence that Sun Life criticised this arrangement to 
dissuade Mr M from increasing his contributions to it. If, as was often the case, he was able 
to do so. 
I appreciate that Mr M will find this frustrating. The rules were subsequently changed from 
March 1999 so that all advisers had to consider the future availability of Stakeholder 
pensions, which were likely to have lower charges than most personal pension plans. But 
when it gave the advice, Sun Life didnt need to consider the charges of the GPP, only 
whether its own product recommendation was appropriate for Mr M. 
And the advice to make the contributions to a personal pension plan does appear to have 
been suitable as it met Mr Ms objective to increase his retirement saving and the cost was 
affordable to him at the time. That means I dont think Sun Life has treated him unfairly or 
unreasonably and I cant uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman