DRN-2535736
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc failed to clarify that the premium for his whole of life 
policy will not change. He says he was led to believe it would reduce once he had retired. 
What happened
In 2010, both Mr M and his wife applied for individual Guaranteed Lifetime Plans with The 
Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited. The policies provide whole of life 
assurance, with premiums payable until a policyholders 90th birthday or the event of their 
death if earlier.  
The applications were taken out through Santander, when Mr and Mrs M visited their local 
branch. Mr M says that he and Mrs M were surprised when his policy premium quote was 
£5.50 per month more than Mrs Ms. 
He says they were told that the reason for the different quotes was because he undertook a 
hazardous occupation. Mr M submits that they accepted the difference in the knowledge that 
he would retire within the next decade and the premium would then reduce. Mr Ms policy 
came into force in June 2010.  
Recently, Mr M reviewed his policy premium as he and Mrs M were reflecting on their 
finances in retirement. He discovered it remained unchanged, He therefore complained to 
Santander, as he had expected the premium to fall when he retired. He said that if it wasnt 
going to reduce, this should have been explained to him at the time.   
In February 2020, Santander wrote to Mr M rejecting his complaint. It said that an 
assessment relating to life assurance cost is made at the time of a policy application and 
premiums are based on an applicants circumstances at that time. Therefore the policy 
premium set in 2010 was correct, and it would not be subject to change. It reminded Mr M 
that he remained free to submit a fresh application for whole of life cover, but it could not 
amend or cancel the policy he previously sought with Royal London.  
Mr M referred the complaint to this service, where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. He said he had reviewed the policy terms and those terms made clear that the 
policy premiums could not change once they were agreed. He therefore didnt think 
Santander had acted unfairly or unreasonably.  
Mr M explained that he wanted the matter to be passed to an ombudsman. He said that if he 
had realised that the premium couldnt reduce in future years based on the change to his 
circumstances, he wouldnt have taken out the policy at all.  
Santander confirmed it had no further comments to make.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked carefully at what both parties have said, I agree with our investigator that this 
complaint should not be upheld. Ive summarised why Ive reached that view below.
I should also note that this complaint is against Santander as the business that sold the 
policy to Mr M. Im not able to review any actions as they relate to the operation of the policy, 
which is the responsibility of Royal London. 
I do not have any reason to dispute Mr Ms recollection of the sale of his whole of life policy 
when he met with Santander in his local branch in 2010. However, whilst this evidence is 
something I take into account, I must also weigh up Santanders version of events as well as 
any other contemporaneous evidence such as the terms and conditions of the policy. Where 
there is conflicting evidence, I have concluded what I believe is most likely, on the balance of 
probabilities.
Though Mr M says he was told that the policy premium would reduce, Royal Londons policy 
wording (on the first page) explains that that You need to pay your premiums each month 
by Direct Debit. The premium is guaranteed when your Plan starts and will not change. 
Though I realise Mr M says he was told otherwise, Ive seen no clear evidence that he was 
informed that the policy premiums would reduce by Santander. I know Mr M recognises that 
the inability to amend the premium amount is correct, as he has recently had the opportunity 
to review the policy wording. However, I cant hold Santander at fault for Mr M not having 
reviewed the policy wording before now. Nor can I propose any such amendment to the 
premium price now  it was set in 2010 for the life of the policy and Ive seen no suggestion 
Mr M was otherwise unhappy to proceed with the cover. 
Even if I agreed that Mr M had been told something different from the outset (which I do not 
believe was likely the case), Santander does not have the relevant authority to make 
amendments to the policy premiums. It is Royal London that determines the cost of policies 
as it underwrites the cover, and the contract containing the terms is between Mr M and 
Royal London. 
I note that in respect of the cost of the policy, the terms say the premiums will depend on just 
three variables, a persons age, sex and the level of benefit chosen from a premium of 
between £5 and £100 each month. Further, the policy application information supplied by 
Santander confirmed that Mr M was offered ordinary rates. 
It may well be the case that Mrs Ms policy premium was different because of one of the first 
two variables, but ultimately it was for Royal London to determine. I understand Mr M may 
have already approached Royal London with questions regarding his policy, and he remains 
free to pursue that matter with it directly, should this be necessary. 
In summary, I havent seen any persuasive evidence to conclude that any promise was 
given by Santander about the reduction of a future policy premium at such time when Mr M 
ceased his occupation, particularly where Santander had no control over the cost of the 
policy, the terms made clear that the premium was fixed and where occupations do not form 
part of the considerations for the relevant price in the first place.  
My final decision
Im not able to uphold this complaint or make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman