DRN-3294284
The complaint
Mr J has complained about the cancellation of his car insurance policy which Acorn 
Insurance and Financial Services Limited administered on behalf of the insurer.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr J informed the broker Acorn of a change of address. Acorn on behalf of the 
insurer asked for proof of address, proof of occupation, proof of purchase of the policy, 
pages 1 and 2 of the V5 log book, a copy of Mr Js driving licence and a driving licence share 
code 
Mr J provided proof of address. But he didnt provide the other documents. He explained that 
he had sent his licence to the DVLA to update his address. Acorn asked Mr J to provide 
proof of posting his licence to the DVLA. 
Mr J says he provided this to Acorn. But Acorn said it didnt receive this  and so Mr Js 
policy was cancelled.
Mr J complained to Acorn. He said he provided proof of postage. But Acorn said it didnt 
receive it and didnt uphold his complaint. So Mr J asked us to look at things for him.
Our Investigator thought Acorn had acted reasonably and so didnt recommend the 
complaint should be upheld. 
Mr J didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 1 July 2021 Acorn on behalf of the insurer wrote to Mr J and asked him to provide the 
following documents within the next seven days to prevent his policy from being cancelled:
  A copy of pages 1 and 2 of the V5 logbook
 Proof of address which must be dated within 30 days  examples of evidence was a 
utility bill, tenancy agreement, letter from HMRC, or bank statement.
 A copy of Mr Js driving license. 
Although Acorn said in their final response letter they also asked for proof of occupation and 
driving licence share code, this isnt in the copy letter Mr J received from Acorn dated 1 July 
2021. 
Mr J and Acorn has provided documentation to show communication between them from 1 
July 2021 until the cancellation date, which was extended to 12 July 2021. Mr J provided 
proof of address to Acorn. But Acorn says he didnt provide any other documentation. 
Mr J said hed sent his licence to the DVLA. Acorn asked Mr J to provide proof of postage. 
Mr J says he provided this to Acorn. Mr J has provided us with a photo of a post office 
receipt for an item sent by registered post to the DVLA on 3 July 2021, along with another 
post office receipt which is titled registration document on the same date, also to the DVLA. 
But I havent seen evidence this was sent to Acorn in time.
Acorn says as it didnt receive all of the documents it requested from Mr J, this didnt prevent 
the policy from being cancelled. As I havent seen proof Mr J provided Acorn with all of the 
documents it requested in time, I dont think Acorn acted unfairly in carrying out the 
cancellation of the policy on behalf of the insurer. 
I understand Mr J will be very disappointed with my decision. But based on what Ive seen, 
Im not asking Acorn to remove the cancellation or do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman