DRN-2870422
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr N complain about interest and charges applied by Social Money Limited 
(trading as Bridging Crowd) when the Covid-19 pandemic delayed repayment of their 
bridging loan.
What happened
Mrs B and Mr N took out a bridging loan in January 2020. It was due to be repaid in April 
2020. Mr N and Mrs B had an offer for a buy to let mortgage to refinance the loan, but 
completion was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr N says the additional £20,000 of 
interest and fees applied by Bridging Crowd was disproportionate and unfair.
Our investigator said Bridging Crowd allowed Mr N and Mrs B extra time to repay the loan. 
He said it wasnt fair to require it to refund fees and interest applied in accordance with the 
loan terms.
Mrs B and Mr N didnt agree. Mr N said the situation was outside their control and it wasnt 
fair for the whole burden to fall on them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B and Mr N took out the bridging loan in January 2020 for three months. They expected 
this to be enough time to arrange a buy to let mortgage and repay the bridging loan by the 
due date, 22 April 2020. 
In late March 2020 the government announced a national lockdown in response to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Mrs B and Mr N had a mortgage offer, however this was subject to a 
valuation. The buy to let mortgage lender couldnt arrange a valuation before 18 May 2020 
and this caused delays. The bridging loan was repaid at the end of May 2020.   
Bridging Crowd agreed the loan could be repaid at a later date, provided Mr N and Mrs B 
could evidence a credible plan to repay the loan  which they did. Bridging Crowd gave Mr N 
and Mrs B information about the costs of repaying the loan late, including default fees and 
interest. 
Circumstances outside Mr N and Mrs Bs control delayed completion of their buy to let 
mortgage. I understand how unfair it must seem that they paid additional interest and 
charges at the default rate during this delay, and why they feel the cost of this should be 
shared. 
For fairness, I should note that had the loan been repaid on time Bridging Crowd would have 
been able to use the funds elsewhere. And Bridging Crowd will itself incur costs in raising 
finance. 
I dont think Bridging Crowd made any errors here. Theres no suggestion that Bridging 
Crowd was in anyway responsible for the delay with Mr N and Mrs B buy to let mortgage. It 
says Mr N and Mrs B took legal advice before taking out the loan. And Bridging Crowd 
applied fees and interest in accordance with the loan terms and the information it gave Mr N 
and Mrs B. There was no requirement for Bridging Crowd to waive or reduce interest or 
charges, even during the difficult circumstances caused by the pandemic. I must also bear in 
mind that this financing relates to a buy to let property  which is a business.
I do appreciate how disappointed Mr N and Mrs B will be. But I dont think its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to require Bridging Crowd to refund and fees and interest.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman