DRN-4120558
The complaint
Mr B complains that St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) charged him for 
providing ongoing advice about his stakeholder pension plan (SPP) incorrectly.
What happened
On 3 August 2023, I issued a provisional decision about this complaint. In it, I set out the 
background to this complaint as follows:
In October 2022, it emerged SJP had applied an Ongoing Advice Charge (OAC) on Mr Bs 
SPP incorrectly. As Mr B was unhappy with what had happened, SJP issued a complaint 
final response on 5 December 2022. It also wrote to him again on 11 January 2023. There 
was a lot of correspondence between Mr B and SJP, so Ive summarised SJPs responses to 
Mr B:
Mr B was employed as an adviser for SJP from 2015 until December 2017. His SPP 
was known as a Retirement Account (RA).
The RA was set up on a self-advised basis, as an SJP partner, with the funds held 
within the RA held in its Balanced Portfolio. The RA carried an OAC of 0.25%.
Before leaving his employment with SJP, Mr B met with another of its employees, 
who Ill refer to as X. Mr B and X discussed transferring the management of the 
accounts of Mr Bs clients to X. There was no request or agreement for X or any 
other SJP employee to take over servicing Mr Bs RA.
After Mr B left his employment with SJP, X was erroneously listed as the servicing 
partner for Mr Bs RA. This meant an OAC was deducted from Mr Bs plan. SJP said 
the OAC was applied to off-set a loan SJP gave Mr B whilst he was employed to 
purchase his client base. The OAC was not paid to X or any other employee to 
facilitate ongoing advice about how the funds invested in Mr Bs RA were managed.
In November 2021, SJP realised X was listed incorrectly as the RAs servicing 
partner, but X was not removed as the servicing partner until December 2021, when 
SJP reduced the OAC from 1.25% to 1%. For this, SJP initially offered Mr B £200 
compensation.
Mr B was concerned his funds were unmonitored and no longer balanced in line with 
his medium risk appetite. But SJP said the balance of funds held within Mr Bs 
portfolio remained medium risk, despite Mr Bs concerns. SJP noted Mr B had 
accessed his online wealth account 88 times since 2017. SJP said X told it Mr B 
confirmed his choice of funds with the intention of a strategy of not making any 
changes. 
It would be almost impossible to quantify any potential loss as a result of Mr B not 
receiving ongoing advice  there was no guarantee of how Mr B may have invested 
differently.
SJP would refund the OACs applied on 7 November 2019, 3 November 2020 and 
2 November 2021, with interest at 8% simple per annum, as a gesture of goodwill. It 
calculated the total to be refunded as £384.86.
Mr B didnt accept SJPs offer of £200 compensation. In various emails to SJP, before and 
after the emails summarised above, Mr B made the following points:
SJP was in breach of the regulators rules by failing to disclose he would be charged 
an OAC after he left SJPs employment.
Mr B said SJP hadnt provided a breakdown of how it calculated its OAC, which he 
calculated to be around £4,000. And if that £4,000 had not been charged incorrectly, 
his pension fund would have grown by an additional £50,000. Mr B added the matter 
has caused him a significant amount of stress and inconvenience to resolve.
Mr B remained concerned about the risk profile of his investments and asked for a 
comparison of his funds performance with SJPs current Balanced Portfolio since 
October 2015 in various formats.
Mr B wanted a breakdown of the investment management charges and had not 
received a copy of his annual wealth statement as of 31 December 2022.
Whilst he was previously an industry professional, SJP should have provided 
ongoing advice to him because it charged him an OAC. If advice had been provided, 
Mr Bs fund would have been worth more than it was whilst left unmonitored.
Unhappy with SJPs response to his complaint, Mr B referred his complaint to our Service to 
review. After revising its offer of compensation several times, SJP offered Mr B a refund of 
OACs and compensation of £750 for the distress and inconvenience caused. SJP then 
made a final offer on 10 March 2023. It offered Mr B the following:
The total OACs paid from the RAs inception in 2015 until the OAC was turned off in 
December 2021 along with interest at 8% simple from the date each charge was 
taken until the date of its offer. The charges totalled £3,374.41. The charges plus 
interest totalled £4,158.35.
It offered £700 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B. 
This brought SJPs total offer of compensation to £4,858.35.
Mr B didnt accept SJPs revised offer. He thought the total charged for OACs plus interest 
was more than SJP offered, and he was prepared to accept £5,000 for this. He also wanted 
compensation for lost investment growth, which he estimated to be £43,159. Mr B said he 
wasnt aware his fund wasnt being monitored and, if it had been monitored, his fund could 
have achieved annual growth of 5% a year. Mr B said he did not have the knowledge or 
experience to switch his funds to adjust the risk profile of his investments, and wanted to 
transfer his funds to another pension provider.
One of our Investigators reviewed Mr Bs complaint and said SJP had offered to refund 
£4,620.22 of charges and interest, which he thought was fair. Our Investigator said this put 
Mr B back in the position he would have been in had the charges not been taken. Our 
Investigator thought Mr B could have asked SJP for advice if he wanted it, given he was 
monitoring his RA regularly.
In response, Mr B said he periodically checked the value of his investments, he did not have 
the skill or knowledge to re-balance his investments to match a risk profile. He said this should have been done by SJP. Mr B noted SJP offered to pay him £4,858.35 on 
10 March 2023, not £4,620.22 as our Investigator said. Mr B was prepared to accept 
£4,858.35 in settlement of his complaint about the OACs paid. However, Mr B wanted SJP 
to compensate him for its failure to provide investment advice and re-balance his profile in 
line with his risk profile. So, this has come to me for a decision.
My provisional decision went on to say what I thought SJP should do to put things right for 
Mr B. SJP had nothing to add in response to my provisional decision. Mr B reiterated his 
belief that SJP breached his contract with it and failed to comply with FCA regulations. He 
does not believe SJPs offer to refund the charges plus interest at 8% simple per annum puts 
him back in the position he would have been in had SJP complied with FCA regulations. 
Mr B said, in summary, that SJP charged him for advice so should compensate him for 
potential investment losses  if he received this, he accepted he would not receive a refund 
of the ongoing advice charges applied to his account. Mr B added he did not think SJPs 
offer of £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him 
was reasonable, bearing in mind the time he has spent on his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart from the findings in my provisional decision. Ill 
reiterate these below.
Mr B has complained that the OAC was applied to his account when it should not have been. 
SJP has refunded the charges Mr B didnt want to pay. If he did want advice about his 
pension, this would have involved him paying the OAC he has complained about. And if I 
concluded Mr B wanted ongoing advice, which he would have paid the OAC for, I could 
consider whether SJP met its obligations to provide ongoing advice and, if it did not, whether 
this caused Mr B a loss. I do not think it is logical to claim a refund of the OACs and ask SJP 
to put Mr B in the position he might have been in had he received ongoing advice, as that 
would put Mr B in a better position than he would have been in otherwise. Mr B accepted this 
in response to my provisional decision, saying he would accept SJP offering him what he 
thinks his pension fund would have been worth if he had received ongoing advice without a 
refund of the OACs applied.
I have considered whether I think Mr B would have opted to pay the OAC if he had been 
made aware of it, so that he could receive ongoing advice about his RA. Having done so, I 
do not think the evidence suggests Mr B wanted ongoing advice when he left SJP. Theres 
no evidence Mr B requested or was promised ongoing advice. In response to my provisional 
decision, Mr B reiterated his belief that SJP breached the regulators rules, and should have 
provided him with ongoing advice. But as I said in my provisional decision, his original 
complaint was that he should not have been charged an ongoing advice charge, which I 
think shows he did not want to pay for receiving ongoing advice about how his funds should 
be invested. So, I remain of the view it is unlikely Mr B wanted to receive ongoing advice, 
SJP should put him back in the position he would have been in had the OAC not been 
applied.  
I note Mr B has said he thinks SJPs delays in handling his complaint have resulted in 
additional losses and hes unhappy with the balance of his fund. But Ive seen nothing to 
suggest he asked for advice from SJP about how his fund was managed or was prevented 
from moving his RA to another provider if he did not want advice from SJP. So, I dont think 
SJP is obliged to offer compensation for this aspect of Mr Bs complaint.As SJP has already offered to refund the OAC from its inception, it is unnecessary to 
consider whether the OAC was applied correctly. But I have thought about whether its offer 
to refund the OAC plus interest at 8% simple returns Mr B to the position he would have 
been in had the OAC not been applied. Ive noted SJP made several errors in calculating the 
OACs applied before its offer of 10 March 2023 to refund £3,374.41 of OACs applied. Ive 
seen no evidence to support this figure being incorrect. 
Our normal approach would be to ask SJP to rework Mr Bs RA as if the OACs had not been 
applied. I note Mr B has complained about the returns his RA achieved  he thinks they 
could have achieved returns of 5% per annum if SJP had been monitoring and rebalancing 
his funds. So, I think it is unlikely the value of the OACs paid would have grown by more 
than 8% per annum if they had remained invested in Mr Bs RA. So, asking SJP to rework 
Mr Bs RA as if the OACs had not been applied may leave him in a worse position than its 
offer of 10 March 2023. So, I think SJPs offer of 10 March 2023 to refund the OACs plus 
interest at 8% simple (minus tax at 20% on the interest), totalling £4,158.35, is fair. 
It's not in dispute that SJPs actions have caused Mr B some distress and inconvenience. 
For this, SJP offered £700 compensation on 10 March 2023. But as I noted in the 
background to this decision, SJP offered Mr B £750 compensation on 3 March 2023 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. Ive considered the higher offer, as I think this is fairer to 
Mr B  it has already been communicated to him and SJP offered no reason why its offer on 
10 March 2023 was £50 lower than its offer on 3 March 2023. I note Mr B said he didnt think 
this offer was fair, given the hours he has spent on the complaint and his usual hourly rate. 
But we dont usually consider someones hourly rate. Instead, I have considered the overall 
impact SJPs error had on Mr B and I remain of the view £750 fairly recognises that SJP 
made repeated errors and that Mr B had to spend a considerable amount resolving the error 
with SJP over several months. 
My final decision
St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc has made an offer to pay Mr B £4,158.35 and 
£750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused. I think this offer is fair in all 
of the circumstances. So, my decision is St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc should 
pay Mr B £4,908.35.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman