DRN-3866497
Complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Modulr FS Limited wont refund the money he lost when he fell victim 
to a scam. 
Background
In October 2020, Mr M fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam. Hed been 
researching prospective investments and completed an online questionnaire. That resulted 
in someone calling to offer him an investment opportunity. Unfortunately, that individual was 
not a legitimate employee of an investment business, but a scammer. 
Mr M was persuaded to use Modulr to transfer fiat currency to an account he held with a 
separate business Ill refer to as B. B was responsible for the operation of a cryptocurrency 
wallet. The deposit into his account with B was converted into Bitcoin. Mr M then transferred 
the Bitcoin to the scammer. He lost around £29,000 as part of the scam. 
There has been significant confusion as to which business should be responsible for 
responding to Mr Ms complaint. He has complained to Modulr and to B. Modulr said that Mr 
M should direct his complaint to B. It said it provided B with its payment infrastructure, but 
that it has no direct relationship with its customers. B itself said it fell outside of this services 
jurisdiction because its not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Mr M was unhappy with the responses he received from both firms and so he referred his 
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who said that it was outside of 
our jurisdiction. She said that Mr M wasnt an eligible complainant because he didnt have 
the necessary relationship with Modulr. For us to consider the complaint, the Investigator 
said that Mr M needed to be a customer of Modulr in relation to the activity which he is 
complaining about  i.e. the transfer of cryptocurrency from his account to that of the 
scammers. 
Mr M was unhappy with this response from the Investigator and so he asked for the case to 
be reviewed by an Ombudsman. As a result, the case was passed to me. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint in November 2022. I wasnt persuaded that 
I had any grounds to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I wrote the following:
I dont agree that the complaint is entirely outside of this services jurisdiction. B isnt 
an authorised firm in its own right, but it is an agent of Modulr which is. That means 
some of its activities fall within our jurisdiction. As a result of the relationship between 
the two firms, in certain circumstances Modulr can be answerable for the actions and 
inactions of B.
Mr M used Modulr to make payments of fiat currency into a cryptocurrency wallet that 
was maintained by B. The subsequent conversion and transfer of the cryptocurrency 
is an unregulated activity and so I cannot consider it.
The starting point in law is the B was expected to process payments when Mr M 
asked it to do so and that Mr M is liable for any transactions that he authorised. 
However, that isnt the end of the story. Good industry practice required that it should 
monitor its customers accounts for activity that might be indicative of an increased 
risk of financial harm due to fraud. This should include monitoring account activity for 
transactions that are unusual or out of character. In some circumstances, it should 
take additional steps, or carry out additional checks, before processing a payment, or 
in some cases decline to make a payment altogether.
If there were transactions that were significantly out of character, I wouldnt expect B 
to simply take at face value that theyd been authorised by Mr M. However, Ive 
looked at a history of activity on the account. This appears to have been a new 
account. This meant it would be particularly difficult for B to identify a typical pattern 
of usage so as to spot significant deviations from it.
Its also important to note that his account with B isnt like a current account. There 
are no regular credits or spending and it has only one purpose  i.e. to purchase 
cryptocurrency from and withdraw funds back to a bank account. Taking that into 
account, I dont think B wouldve had any reasonable basis for considering this 
activity to be suspicious or that there was an enhanced risk of fraud.
Ive also seen nothing to suggest that B could have known who controlled the 
blockchain address that the funds were eventually sent to or that it had previously 
been informed that it had any connection with fraud. I dont think there were any 
checks it could have reasonably carried out on the ultimate beneficiary of the scam 
and, since the funds were sent to a blockchain address, they were irrecoverable.
I recognise that these findings will be hugely disappointing to Mr M. Theres no 
question that he has been the victim of a cruel and cynical fraud. But Im restricted to 
considering what Modulr and B have done. Essentially, while it is now known with the 
benefit of hindsight that Mr M had been targeted by a scam, I dont think there 
wouldve been any reasonable basis for either to recognise that risk given the 
information that was available at the time.
Mr M disagreed with the outcome I came to in my provisional decision and responded at 
length. I have considered his submissions carefully, but Im afraid Im not persuaded to 
depart from the view I took in my provisional decision. 
Mr M has said that the account was opened specifically for and only used for the purchase of 
cryptocurrency and that this should've been a trigger for an intervention on the part of B. I'm 
afraid I'm not convinced. I think the implication here is that there should be a presumption 
that any payment connected with cryptocurrency is fraudulent or highly likely to be so. It is 
true that there are clear risks associated with buying cryptocurrency. However, I dont think it 
follows that all transactions connected with such an investment are more likely than not 
connected with an attempted fraud or that individuals who want to invest their money in 
cryptocurrency shouldnt be free to do so.
He's also suggested a range of questions that firms involved in facilitating the purchase and 
exchange of cryptocurrency could ask customers to protect them from fraud. It is suggested 
that these questions should be put to customers when opening new accounts and making 
new payments. I can't say for sure whether, if firms had been expected to do so, it would've prevented Mr M from falling victim to this scam. Nonetheless, that wasn't the standard B was 
expected to meet. I'm also mindful of the fact that, given the significant volume of 
transactions that take place daily, it wouldn't be practical for B to stop and check each 
individual payment, particularly if it's not unusual in the context of the other activity on the 
account. It has to strike a balance between monitoring accounts and preventing fraud 
without unduly hindering its customers general use of their account.
Mr M has argued that a customer with a new account shouldnt be less protected from the 
risk of fraud than one with an established account. However, significant changes in activity 
are an important criterion when determining fraud risk. As a result, it is harder for a firm to 
spot activity that might be fraudulent without a reasonable amount of historic data to serve 
as a basis for comparison.
Mr M has described in some detail the impact that this scam had on his personal life and the 
difficult circumstances that he was dealing with at the time. I do fully recognise the appalling 
impact that this crime has had on Mr M and his family. The person ultimately responsible for 
that impact is the scammer. My remit is limited to considering the actions and inactions of B 
and Modulr. Although I feel an enormous amount of sympathy for the position Mr M has now 
found himself in, that doesnt give me grounds for directing Modulr to refund the money he 
lost. 
Mr M has pointed that hes had an account with the same bank for decades and that it 
shouldve recognised that his spending had increased significantly. However, this complaint 
isnt against that bank, but is against Modulr. If Mr M wants to make a complaint about a 
failure by his bank to prevent this fraud then he would need to complain to it directly. If hes 
unhappy with its response, hell be free to bring his complaint to this service. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman