DRN-2544606
The complaint
Mr P complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr P applied to Clydesdale for a loan which was accepted and drawn down in April 2020. 
The loan was for £25,000 over seven years. A few months later, Mr P complained to 
Clydesdale and said the loan shouldnt have gone through due to his personal 
circumstances which had left him in debt. He said he had applied for two loans earlier in the 
month and this shouldve been flagged. Mr P also said he had a gambling problem. 
Clydesdale responded and said they use an internal scoring system as well as information 
from credit reference agencies (CRAs) to determine affordability and eligibility. Clydesdale 
said, on Mr Ps application, he noted his income as £3,800 per month after tax but in his 
complaint he noted it as £3,356.97. Clydesdale said this may have contributed to the loan 
decision. Clydesdale also said the two previous loans taken out by Mr P may not have 
shown up on his credit file as this depends on when those particular lenders decided to 
report it to the CRAs. Clydesdale set out options that are available for customers who find 
themselves in financial difficulty. Clydesdale didnt uphold the complaint. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr P. He thought Clydesdale had acted reasonably in 
lending to Mr P. Mr P disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr P will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Clydesdale needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that they didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that they shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr P could repay the credit in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
The first point Ive addressed is whether I think Clydesdale carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. Section 5 of the Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook outlines that 
the assessment that Clydesdale needed to complete shouldve been dependent on, and 
proportionate to, a number of factors  including the amount and cost of the credit and the 
consumers borrowing history. CONC also provides guidance on the sources of information 
Clydesdale may have wanted to consider as part of making a proportionate assessment. It 
then gives examples of factors a firm must consider and refers to whether the information 
the firm has is sufficient and whether to obtain additional information from the customer and 
any other sources of information to use.    
   
Clydesdale is free to decide how to set their lending criteria but they should complete 
proportionate checks to ensure borrowing is sustainable. In this case, I can see that 
Clydesdale took into account income and expenditure information provided by Mr P. I can 
see that Mr P applies for the loan online and on the form he notes his pre-tax annual income 
as £65,000 and £3,800 as his monthly income after tax. Under a section asking for 
expenditure details, he notes his mortgage/rent as £750 and other credit payments as £500. 
Mr P answers No to a question asking him whether his income is likely to go down in the 
future. Mr P also answers No to a question asking whether his expenditure is likely to 
increase in the future. He says he has external debt of £23,000 and wants to use the loan to 
consolidate his debt. The loan is then approved with monthly payments of £480.86.   
I can see Clydesdale have taken this information into consideration when deciding whether 
to lend to Mr P. They also carry out some credit checks but I dont think these checks went 
far enough to get a full understanding of Mr Ps financial circumstances. The information 
shows they took into account Mr Ps secured and unsecured borrowing and any searches 
within the last six months. I believe it wouldve been reasonable and proportionate for 
Clydesdale to carry out further checks. Clydesdale identify Mr Ps total secured borrowing as 
£129,000 and total unsecured borrowing as £16,400. Theres no evidence Clydesdale 
looked into how Mr P was performing against those other accounts and, in particular, 
whether there were any late payment markers or missed payments and whether any 
accounts were in default. 
Clydesdale were lending to Mr P for the first time so they didnt have any account history of 
their own by which they couldve evaluated Mr Ps performance. And, given this was a loan 
for £25,000 over seven years, I think it wouldve been reasonable for Clydesdale to have 
carried out checks into how Mr P was performing against other accounts. I dont feel the 
checks carried out in this case are the type I would reasonably expect because, not only 
would they not help Clydesdale to build a reasonable picture of Mr Ps financial situation, but 
they wouldnt assist in determining whether he could repay the credit in a sustainable way. 
Ive taken the view that reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out. So, the 
next point Ive considered is, had reasonable and proportionate checks been carried out, 
whether they wouldve shown that Mr P was more likely than not unable to sustainably repay 
the credit. And, being able to sustainably repay credit is described as doing so without undue 
difficulty, while being able to meet other commitments and without having to borrow further. 
Ive looked at Mr Ps credit file to see how he was performing against his accounts with other 
lenders at the time he took out the loan with Clydesdale. At the point Mr P applies for the 
loan with Clydesdale, his credit file shows he has five other active accounts. Two of these 
are loan accounts, one credit card, a mortgage and a current account. The credit file shows 
these accounts are all well managed with no late/missed payment markers and no defaults. 
Ive also gone further and looked at any accounts which were closed prior to Mr P applying 
for the loan but were active within the previous three months. There are two accounts which 
are again well managed with no late/missed payment markers and no defaults. The 
information doesnt suggest Mr P was taking out loans regularly to service other debts, or 
that he was finding it difficult to make repayments. I feel its also important to add that, in relation to two of the accounts Ive mentioned (one active account and one closed account), I 
dont think these appeared on the result of Clydesdales search of unsecured borrowing 
given that they were also opened In April. And, given that Clydesdales search identified 
unsecured borrowing of £16,400, it doesnt appear that the lender for those two accounts 
had reported this to the CRAs at the point Mr P applied for the loan with Clydesdale. I say 
this because, had the lenders reported it, the total unsecured borrowing figure wouldve been 
higher. So, in view of the income Mr P declared to Clydesdale, I think, on the balance of 
probabilities, its more likely than not, had Clydesdale carried out these searches they would 
still have offered Mr P the loan. And, I think its reasonable to conclude that those searches  
together with the information Mr P declared on his application form - wouldve shown that Mr 
P could make the monthly payments of £480.86 in a sustainable way.  
I can see Mr P queries why Clydesdale, knowing his occupation, didnt anticipate the 
uncertainty and instability a national lockdown has brought to the sector he works in. I do 
understand why Mr P is concerned by this but the form he completes does ask him to 
confirm whether he expects his income will go down in the future and he answers with No. I 
think its reasonable for Clydesdale to rely on this and, while I dont disagree there has been 
uncertainty created by the timings and duration of national lockdowns, I dont think its 
reasonable to expect Clydesdale to have asked Mr P further questions about this at the time.  
 
Mr P says he received a £25,000 loan within a very short space of applying and also 
questions whether the lack of checks could lead to a consumer asking for a loan of 
£100,000. I do take on board Mr Ps points here but my role is to consider whether, in the 
circumstances of this case, Clydesdale have made a fair decision to lend. We look at the 
facts of each case individually and it might be reasonable in cases where Clydesdale agree 
to lend £100,000 that they do carry out additional checks. That isnt however the case here 
and, while I do take into account Mr Ps point about the timing between his application and 
the approval of the loan, that in itself doesnt mean Clydesdale have acted unfairly. Some 
businesses might well offer a service which provides a quicker response time to applications 
but we would still look at whether the checks carried out have been reasonable and 
proportionate. So, while I cant say Clydesdale have acted unreasonably in their response 
time, I have found their checks werent reasonable and proportionate. 
Mr P says Clydesdale shouldve asked to see his bank statements. He says this wouldve 
given Clydesdale a more complete picture of his expenditure. The checks carried out by 
Clydesdale need to be reasonable and proportionate and, while I have found that wasnt the 
case here, I dont think Clydesdale needed to get Mr Ps bank statements. Mr P was given 
an opportunity to set out details of his expenditure. And, while the question on the 
application is limited to mortgage/rent and other credit payments, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Clydesdale to not carry out any further checks in relation to Mr Ps 
expenditure. I say this because its reasonable for a lender to take the view that those items 
of expenditure specified on the form are likely to be a consumers main outgoings. In 
addition to this, Clydesdale did also gather information which set out Mr Ps total 
secured/unsecured borrowing. So, I think these checks were sufficient in this case to get an 
understanding of Mr Ps expenditure.   
 
I can see Mr P says he was gambling around the time he applied for the loan and 
Clydesdale wouldve picked up on this had they asked for his bank statements. Mr Ps bank 
statement for April does show large amounts of money going out from early into the month 
and also through to the point when he applies for the loan. The money goes out to what 
appears to be a trading/investment platform. I cant see however any information which 
shows that Mr P made Clydesale aware of a gambling problem. In Mr Ps application, he says the reason for the loan is to consolidate his debts. In addition to this, given that I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Clydesdale to not ask for Mr Ps bank statements, I cant say 
they wouldve been aware the loan would be used for gambling. So, while Im sorry to hear 
about the problem Mr P had at the time, I cant say Clydesdale have been unreasonable. Its 
good to hear Mr P has since received treatment which he has found beneficial. 
Ive also considered whether I think Clydesdale have acted unfairly or unreasonably in any 
other way. We do expect lenders to treat consumers, who are experiencing financial difficulty 
or are vulnerable, sympathetically and positively. I feel that has been the case here. I can 
see Clydesdale agreed to a three-month payment holiday. When this ends, Clydesdale 
phone Mr P to ask about his circumstances and explain he can contact them if he does need 
any further assistance. In addition to this, I can see Clydesdale, in their complaint response, 
set out options for further support. So, this shows Clydesdale have taken into account Mr Ps 
circumstances and have taken steps to help him.  
In summary, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint in this matter as I feel Clydesdale made a fair 
decision to lend. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman