DRN-2593991
The complaint
Mr C complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) imposed an 
unreasonable 28-day delay in transferring the funds in his personal pension into a cash fund.
What happened
Mr C called Prudential on 9 March 2020 as he was concerned about the effect the 
Coronavirus pandemic may have on the value of his personal pension fund. He asked for it 
to be converted into a cash fund and was advised he needed to complete a form and post it 
back, which he did. 
After hearing nothing from Prudential, Mr C called them on 20 March 2020. But he said he 
was unable to speak with anyone at this time because he was in a queue for too long. His 
financial adviser called Prudential on 23 March 2020 and was told that the form Mr C 
completed hadnt been done properly and had been sent back to him. But this never arrived.
Mr C complained to Prudential about the delays and lack of contact. He said the value of his 
pension had dropped by about £24,000 during the time it hadnt processed his request to 
transfer into a cash fund.
Prudential agreed that it had received his transfer request form on 10 March 2020. It also 
agreed that it had promised, during the call on 9 March 2020, to telephone him if it found any 
errors in how hed completed it. But it hadnt done this and just sent it back to him to be 
amended. 
So Prudential agreed to treat his transfer request as though it had been correctly made on 
10 March 2020 and backdated his fund value to that date. But it explained that the type of 
fund Mr Cs pension was invested in had a 28-day delay period for any switch request, so 
this meant the transfer couldnt actually take effect until 7 April 2020, and the value of his 
fund would be calculated at that point. It did acknowledge that it shouldve advised Mr C of 
this delay when he called on 9 March 2020, but ultimately it didnt think the failures in the 
service it had provided had caused any additional losses to Mr Cs fund value. This was 
because the 28-day delay meant the value of his funds would have dropped anyway. 
In addition to backdating the transfer, it offered Mr C £150 compensation for the service 
failings it had recognised.
Mr C told Prudential that the compensation offered wasnt enough given the level of losses 
hed experienced. He said that the 28-day delay was unacceptable, and the urgency of the 
situation meant he shouldve been advised how he couldve protected his funds quicker.
Prudential agreed to raise its offer of compensation to £225 as Mr C shouldve been told of 
the 28-day period in his call to them on 9 March 2020. But it confirmed its offer of 
compensation was in recognition of the inconvenience it had caused, rather than the loss in 
value of his funds as it wasnt responsible for this. It also said its agent, on the call on 
9 March 2020, wasnt able to give financial advice, so couldnt have advised Mr C what he 
should do with his funds. And the agent had offered to transfer him to one of its financial 
advisers, but Mr C hadnt wanted this.
Unsatisfied with its response, Mr C referred his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into it. But having done so, our investigator didnt think Prudential 
needed to do anything more than it had already. He thought Prudential were able to impose 
the 28-day delay period before enacting the fund switch as this was laid out in the terms and 
conditions of the fund Mr Cs pension was invested in. And he thought that even if Mr C had 
been told about the delay period in his call to Prudential on 9 March 2020, he didnt think it 
likely that Mr C wouldve done anything differently. So he thought Prudential were fair in 
backdating the fund switch to 10 March 2020 and implementing the 28-day period from that 
point. And he thought the £225 it had offered Mr C for the inconvenience it had caused him 
was fair in the circumstances.
Mr C didnt agree. He made a number of points, but in summary he said:
It was unfair to just rely on a clause in the terms and conditions when coming to an 
opinion as they are one-sided, and non-negotiable.
He didnt remember seeing the terms and conditions document and didnt have it in 
his possession.
Even if he had read them, he wouldnt have foreseen the circumstances of an 
imminent serious drop in the markets and that the 28-day clause would be important.
The terms and conditions say that switches may be subject to a 28-day delay, not 
that they will, so given that he told Prudential of the urgency of the situation it could 
have proceeded with haste, especially given the fund switch was into cash, and no 
further investment arrangements were needed.
Prudential went ahead with the transfer despite the errors it said hed made on the 
application form, so he didnt understand why it couldnt have done this initially.
Our investigator considered what Mr C said but didnt change his view. He also sent Mr C a 
copy of the fund terms and conditions. He explained, in summary:
Prudential was able to impose the 28-day period, and although the wording used was 
may this still allowed them to do this. 
He also passed on Prudentials explanation for why the 28-day period was necessary 
with respect to the type of With-Profits fund Mr Cs pension was invested in.
He was unable to consider a complaint that Mr C hadnt been provided with the 
correct information when the pension fund was incepted as this hadnt been raised 
previously, and Prudential would need to be given the opportunity to respond first. 
He also explained that Prudential had ultimately decided to accept Mr Cs form and 
initiate the transfer, despite the errors, as a result of the complaint, and that it had 
recognised its own failings in the service it had provided. And this was ultimately 
what Mr C had wanted to happen. 
Given all of this, the investigator remained of the view that Prudentials errors had not led to 
the financial losses Mr C suffered.
Mr C responded, in summary:He didnt believe hed seen the terms and conditions booklet before, so it was unfair 
of Prudential to rely on different information than which he had, and as this was the 
crux of his complaint and he thought it should be considered. 
As he wasnt informed of the 28-day period in his telephone conversation, and he 
should have been, he had no reason to consider any alternative investment 
strategies as opposed to converting to cash.  
He was angry that Prudential didnt properly inform him of the process at the time, 
and therefore failed to give him the opportunity of considering alternative strategies.
Had he been made aware of the delay to the transfer, hed have either left his 
investments alone pending the markets settling down and possibly taken a short-term 
loan to cover his financial needs, or consulted his financial adviser on alternatives.
He agreed that hed wanted the transfer to be conducted as quickly as possible to 
avoid the anticipated drop in the markets, but the delay made the switch pointless as 
the markets had already fallen.
The compensation offered didnt make up for the many thousands hed lost.
He didnt understand how Prudential were ultimately able to accept the incorrectly 
filled out application form when it initially said it was unable to.
Our investigator thought that Mr Cs assertion that hed not been given a copy of the funds 
terms and conditions at inception was a new complaint about the sale process, so he 
couldnt consider it as part of this complaint. He also thought that Prudential, in its 
28 May 2020 final response letter, had offered Mr C the opportunity to cancel the switch if he 
wished, or to transfer to an alternative fund. And as he hadnt taken it up on this offer, he 
thought it likely that hed wanted it to proceed. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators view, for broadly the same reasons, so do not 
uphold this complaint. Ill explain.
Firstly, Im aware that Mr C doesnt think he was provided a copy of the terms and conditions 
of the fund at the point of sale. Therefore, he thinks it is unfair that Prudential is able to rely 
on these terms to justify its imposition of the 28-day delay to his transfer request as he 
wasnt in a position to know about it. And I can understand his point here. But Ive seen the 
point of sale application form. And in this I can see that the Prufund Growth flexible 
retirement plan was applied for and sold to him through the independent financial adviser 
Mr C was using at that time. And Prudential has stated that it didnt provide the advice to 
start the plan, and his adviser at the time was responsible for providing the key features and 
accompanying documentation. 
So Im satisfied that the sales and advice process is separate and distinct to Mr Cs 
complaint against Prudential about what happened in March 2020. If Mr C has concerns 
about the suitability of the advice in 2016, the sales process or what was or wasnt provided 
to him, this should be raised as a separate complaint. These points will not be considered as part of this decision.
Instead, I need to decide whether Prudential was fair when it imposed the 28-day delay 
period to Mr Cs fund transfer, and if its offer to resolve things is fair. 
The 28-day delay period
When imposing the 28-day period, Prudential is relying on the terms and conditions of the 
With-Profits fund Mr C was invested in. I understand Mr C says he doesnt think hes seen 
these terms and conditions before he complained, but it is important for completeness and 
clarity that I include the relevant extract here:
Under the heading What if you decide to move out of these funds?, the terms state:
You might decide to take money from your Plan for one of the following reasons:
 to retire,
 to switch to another type of fund,
 to transfer your investment to another company, or
 to cash in your Plan.

Any units we cancel as a result of switches, transfers or withdrawals from the PruFund 
Range of Funds may be subject to a delay of up to 28 days from the date of receipt of a 
request to cancel units. Well use the unit price on the final day of the delayed period as the 
price of the units for these purposes.
So Im satisfied that the terms and conditions of the fund means Prudential were able to 
impose a 28-day delay to the transfer of Mr Cs fund to cash. But I need to consider if I think 
it was fair to do so in these circumstances. And I do. The particular type of fund Mr C was 
invested in was held collectively across a large number of investors. And the ability to delay 
the valuation of the fund allowed the protection of the wider fund value and reduced the risk 
of greater volatility. This was particular to this type of fund. So whilst I understand Mr Cs 
frustration that he wasnt able to protect his pension fund as quickly as he wanted, and his 
anxiety is clear from the recording of the calls on 9 March 2020, Im satisfied that 
Prudentials implementation of the 28-day delay in these circumstances wasnt unfair.
But I do need to consider whether I think Mr C wouldve likely done anything differently had 
he been told about the 28-day delay in his call on 9 March 2020. Im unable to say for certain 
what he would have done, so I have to decide, on the balance of probability, what I think is 
most likely having considered the circumstances at the time. And having done so, I dont 
think hed have done anything differently. Mr C has told our service he wanted the funds 
released for a house purchase later in 2020, and releasing funds from his pension fund for 
this purpose is a reasonable, and relatively cost-effective move compared to, for example, a 
loan. And that Prudential offered in its final response letter to cancel or alter the transfer if he 
wished, but he didnt take it up on this offer, leads me to think it unlikely Mr C was able to 
raise the funds required in any other reasonable way. 
Prudentials errors
Prudential have acknowledged that it shouldve told Mr C about the 28-day delay term in his 
calls on 9 March 2020, and accepts it didnt call him back to discuss his transfer form as it 
said it would. So it agreed to treat his transfer application as if it has been correctly 
submitted on 10 March 2020, and calculate the fund value on 7 April 2020. I think this is fair. It is clear that Mr C had taken reasonable steps to ensure the transfer application form had 
been completed correctly, and Im satisfied he wanted the transfer to proceed on 10 March 
2020. And given Ive decided the imposition of the 28-day delay was fair, it follows that Im 
satisfied the loss in fund value that hes experienced wouldve happened anyway, and 
Prudentials inaction didnt cause him any further financial detriment. 
But Prudential did offer to increase its level of compensation to £225 to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience hed been caused. I consider that this is also fair and generally in 
line with the level of compensation Id think reasonable had the offer not been already made.
So, having considered all of the above, Im satisfied that Prudential dont need to do anything 
more.
My final decision
I require The Prudential Assurance Company Limited, if it hasnt already done so, to pay 
Mr C £225 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman