DRN-3153676
The complaint
Mr S complains that the offshore discretionary trust he invested in with TenetConnect 
Services Limited (TCS) has significantly higher charges than similar funds and are more 
complex.
What happened
In March 2012, Mr S sought advice from TCS regarding investing around £150,000 to be
held in a discretionary trust. His primary objective was to avoid any tax liabilities for the
trustees, so the beneficiaries - his son and grandchildren, would obtain maximum benefit
without any tax penalties for the trustees or the beneficiaries.
The trust was set up in August 2012 with the trustees also as the beneficiaries and they
would later decide who to assign the benefit of the trust to. The policy allowed for annual
withdrawals of up to 10% of the value of the trust, should this be required. Mr S deferred
this every year until August 2016. Each year, between August 2016 to August 2018, the
withdrawals were paid to various grandchildren.
He says he understood that setting up the trusts would mean the trustees would no longer
be liable for tax, but he was faced with an income tax bill as he had exceeded his annual
tax-free allowance. He complained to TCS that the advice he was given was incorrect and 
he was mis-sold the investment as it didnt meet his investment objectives. In addition, he 
thought he would no longer be liable for inheritance tax as the seven-year period had lapsed. 
This didnt happen and the seven-year period had to begin again in 2019. 
He says that he was unhappy with the charges being applied to this offshore trust 
particularly as they had significantly higher costs than similar onshore funds and were more 
complex. He says theyd increased from around £124 per quarter (£496 per year) to about 
£680 per year (approximately £170 per quarter).
TCS say he was out of time for complaining based on the six and three year rules outlined
by the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) and so is not within the remit of this service. They
also say they wrote to Mr S in July 2014 telling him what he needed to do. They rejected his 
complaint, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
An investigator here agreed with TCS in part, that the complaint was out of time on the six 
and three year rule in relation to the advice given when the account was set up. She also 
said the complaint was in time in relation to the complaint about charges applied to the 
account and the complexity of it as these were both issues which were still on-going and 
continued to impact the account. In relation to the charges, the investigator said she thought 
the charges were made sufficiently clear so didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator, so this came to me for a decision. In my decision, I 
looked at whether we were able to look at this complaint or if it was out of time on the DISP 
rules. I agreed that TCS were correct to say the complaint in relation to the tax advice was 
out of time and Mr S should have known by July 2014 that he had cause for complaint. 
I also said I was able to consider the complaint about ongoing charges and complexity 
because this was not about the initial account that was set up, it was about charges that are 
being added to the account now so the six and three year rules that TCS relied on didnt 
apply here. I will now consider the merits of this element of the complaint below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I will not address each point individually, please be assured that I have considered all 
the information that has been provided by both parties including the information given after 
the investigators view was issued and more recently.
Mr Ss main complaint about charges is that the offshore discretionary trust he was told to 
invest in has significantly higher charges which continued to increase compared to similar 
onshore funds and was more complex. So, Ive looked at what TCS would be expected to do 
and what information was available to Mr S when considering what he knew about the 
charges that were to be applied. 
I would expect to see TCS giving Mr S a detailed breakdown of the charges that would be 
applied and include details of any on-going changes that apply, where possible. They should 
be being as transparent and informative as possible for Mr S to make an informed decision 
on whether to invest or not. TCS say that a charges and fees document was prepared for 
him by the adviser in a financial planning report in April 2012 giving him the information in 
detail. In July 2012 (before the trust was set up in August 2012), the adviser sent Mr S a 
document named Wealth Preservation Account, Fees and Charges. I have seen that this 
lists all the charges that apply in point 5. Charges that applied to the account include an 
insurer charge of 1.5% and a broker fees of 0.75% - both a percentage of the invested 
amount. In addition to this, an annual management charge of 1.29% (inclusive of 0.5% 
annual charge to the broker) was applied and a quarterly insurer administrative charge. 
The account information also makes clear that the charges and fees were subject to change 
in line with inflation and other changes to costs of administering the account. 
Please  note that *(the  insurer)  may vary its charges  and fees in line with inflation  
or to reflect  other  changes  in the costs  of administering and managing  tile account.  
These  changes  in costs  may be due to external  costs  to *(the  broker)  or changes  
in tax, regulation or law increasing  the underlying cost of administering  the 
account. Any future increases in charges and fees will be published on our website
It is reasonable to expect there would be some change in the level of charges applied to an 
account over a period of time. It would be unusual for any charges to remain unchanged for 
the lifetime of this type of investment. The above information on the account made this clear 
and also explained where the information regarding any changes would be found. I have 
seen this information added in different places in the literature provided. 
I am also persuaded that Mr S would have sought information about the charges particularly 
as the advisor had drawn attention to charges in the communications above and mentioned 
that charges were discussed in some depth in July 2012. In addition, Mr S has more 
recently also provided copies of email communications with the adviser at TCS in November 
2012 in which they discuss the account charges in detail again. Here he raises concerns 
around the amount of charges being too high. This communication also highlights issues 
around charges applied that Mr S was not told about when the account was opened. In an 
email to Mr S in February 2013, TCS accepted this was an error on their part as they hadnt realised that these charges were being applied and hadnt included them in the original 
advice given. 
It is also accepted by both parties, that these additional charges are one off charges that 
applied at the start of the investment. As these are not on-going charges, they do not form 
part of the complaint that I am considering here.
Mr S is someone who describes himself as an experienced investor. He has an academic 
background in finance who would reasonably be able to understand the type of investment 
being offered here. That doesnt mean he needed to be an expert in discretionary trusts or 
taxation, but simply that he has the background to have a sound understanding of this type 
of investment and would be able to ask relevant questions when needed particularly as this 
was being sold with an on-going advice service. So, I am satisfied that the information given 
to Mr S wasnt particularly complex and was sufficiently clear in explaining the charges that 
would be applied to the account and I am satisfied that he knew, or ought reasonably to 
have known there was a real prospect of changes to the amounts being charged.
The information Mr S has provided shows that his main objective when making this 
investment was to minimise his potential inheritance tax liability, increase capital growth and 
retain some control over the investment. The main benefit of an offshore discretionary trust 
is exactly this  it provides tax efficient benefits that are not available for other investments. 
TCS agree that that this type of offshore trust is more expensive than onshore trusts but they 
explained that any capital growth within the offshore trust would not immediately be subject 
to capital gains tax or income tax. This was the main reason and difference between opting 
for an offshore product as opposed to an onshore product and the potential tax benefits of 
an offshore discretionary trust outweigh other investments. I note that Mr S says that any 
gains that TCS talk about are marginal, particularly once all the charges are factored in but I 
dont think this is conclusive or even foreseeable. This would come down to performance of 
the investment and any determination on this could only be with the benefit of hindsight.
In summary, while I do understand why Mr S was concerned about the charges, I am 
satisfied that these were explained to him in sufficient detail as well as the possibility of 
increase in these charges. In terms of the complexity of the trust and charges, Mr S as an 
experienced investor had the background and confidence to understand there was an issue. 
I havent seen anything to suggest this type of trust would be particularly complex for him. It 
is also important to remember that the purpose of the trust was to reduce potential 
inheritance tax liability and an offshore discretionary trust achieves this objective. As neither 
Mr S nor TCS dispute that looking for a tax efficient investment was the main objective, Im 
not persuaded that TCS did anything wrong here.
I know Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope I have explained why I have 
decided not to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint against TenetConnect Services 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman