DRN-2966657
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complained about The Co-operative Bank Plc. They said Mr P didnt receive 
the full £200 which he withdrew from a cash machine. 
What happened
On 19 November 2020, Mr P wanted to withdraw money from Mr and Mrs Ps joint account. 
He went to a cash machine outside a different bank. At first he tried to withdraw £300, but 
this was declined because it would have exceeded the daily limit.
Mr P then requested £200. He said that the machine dispensed £200. He said he tried to 
take the money, but was only able to take the top £10 note before the remaining £190 was 
withdrawn back inside the machine.  
Mr P went into the bank branch straightaway, and the person behind him in the queue went 
up to the machine. The bank branch staff told Mr P that hed have to get in touch with the 
Co-op, because the debit card hed used was from his Co-op account.
Mr P told the Co-op what had happened. The Co-op gave Mr P a temporary credit while it 
investigated. It contacted the bank which owned the cash machine where it had happened, 
and looked at the machine technical records which that other bank had sent on. But having 
done so, the Co-op didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint, and took back the temporary credit. It 
said the £200 cash withdrawal had been made successfully.
Mr and Mrs P contacted this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He looked at the technical machine evidence. 
This showed that Mr Ps transaction had been completed satisfactorily. There was, however, 
evidence that when the cash machine had next been balanced, there was £120 extra in the 
machine. The investigator said that this was significantly less than the £190 which Mr P said 
hed lost. As the technical data showed nothing wrong with Mr Ps transaction, the 
investigator thought it was most likely that this £120 related to another transaction. So he 
didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P remained unhappy. He spoke to the investigator and again went through what had 
happened. Hed entered his card and PIN, requested £200, and the notes came out of the 
slot. But Mr P said that when he went to pick them up, he knocked against them with his 
finger, and that knocked most of them back inside the machine. He could only get one £10 
note. The slot then closed. He went inside the branch, and as he was doing so, the next 
person in the queue went up to the machine. Mr P told the investigator he thought it was 
possible the person behind him took the money.
Mr P asked the investigator if an ombudsman might find in his favour on compassionate 
grounds. He asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main technical evidence in a dispute of this type is called a journal roll. This is a 
breakdown of the process a cash machine follows when its used. Here, the journal roll for 
19 November 2020 shows Mr Ps attempted £300 transaction, with codes which show the 
transaction wasnt authorised because it exceeded the withdrawal limit.
The journal roll then shows Mr Ps £200 transaction. This says Notes dispensed at 
9:50:38, indicating that the machine dispensed 8 x £20 notes and 4 x £10 notes. The journal 
roll goes on to record that the card was removed and End of user session   OK  at 9:50:52.
Ive also looked at the evidence from the cash machine balancing. This shows the 
certification from the engineer that when it was next checked, on 24 November, there was 
£120 more in the machine than there should have been. This isnt an exact match for the 
£190 Mr P said hed lost - and it could have resulted from transaction problems at this very 
busy machine from any point between the previous check, and 24 November. So I think its 
very unlikely that the £120 found in the machine some days later was Mr Ps missing £190. 
I also asked the Co-op exactly what would happen if someone accidentally knocked the cash 
when removing it, and what would show if cash was withdrawn back into the machine.  The 
Co-op said it was technically unlikely to have happened, because a nudge, knock or push at 
the exit wouldnt prompt a retract. It told me the circumstances in which a cash machine 
would retract the money, and what code the journal roll would show. But Mr Ps 
circumstances dont match when a machine would retract the money  and the relevant 
code isnt on the journal roll for Mr Ps transaction. Whats shown in the journal roll for Mr Ps 
transaction is the code to show successful transactions, where the machine senses that the 
money has been taken. 
Mr P said that someone went up to the machine straight after him, and he wondered if they 
took the money. The journal roll shows the machine was busy throughout the day, with 
transactions immediately before and after Mr P. But the technical evidence indicates the 
money wasnt retracted into the machine, still less that it was re-presented some time later. 
So I dont find that this is a likely explanation for what happened. 
Finally, Mr P asked our investigator if an ombudsman might find in his favour on 
compassionate grounds. I understand that situations like this can be upsetting. But Mr P 
hasnt set out any exceptional circumstances  for example medical evidence, or being 
attacked for the cash.  My job is to decide whats more likely than not to have happened, in 
all the circumstances of the case  and to take a final decision based on that. As Ive set out, 
the technical evidence shows that its more likely than not that the £200 was successfully 
dispensed. In those circumstances, its not open to me to order the Co-op to refund Mr P.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman