DRN-4427829
The complaint
Mr C says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance 
(BPF) unfairly handled his claim under section 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA).     
What happened
In or around April 2012, Mr C (jointly with Mrs C) agreed to purchase a timeshare product 
from a supplier who Ill refer to as S. The purchase price of the timeshare product was 
£24,648 and included recission of an existing timeshare product held by Mr and Mrs C. The 
total purchase price was funded under a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF in Mr Cs sole 
name.
In May 2020, using a professional representative (the PR), Mr C submitted a claim to BPF 
under the CCA. It isnt practical to repeat the entire contents of the claim in full, but I will 
provide a summary of the key points as follows.
The PR allege that Mr C purchased the timeshare product having relied upon 
misrepresentations made by S and, under section 75 of the CCA (S75), BPF is jointly liable 
for those misrepresentations. The PR also allege that those misrepresentations, amongst 
other things, resulted in an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under section 140A of the CCA 
(S140A).
In particular, the PR allege:
S sold the timeshare product as an investment contrary to section 14 of the 
Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 
(the TRs) rather than as a timeshare;
S sold the timeshare product when they knew (or ought to have known) there was no 
secondary timeshare market;
the terms of the agreement are so egregious as to be unfair themselves since an 
aspect of the relationship was hidden from view  that being a payment of 
commission;
S charged annual maintenance fees which increased year on year;
S sold the timeshare product under extreme pressure using aggressive sales 
practices;
S didnt give Mr C time to read and consider the information provided;
S didnt allow a review of any other financial products;
S didnt advise Mr C he could consider other creditors
a proper affordability assessment for the loan wasnt undertaken; and
the product purchased was unsuitable and failed to provide the advantages 
promised.
Further, the PR said that S was now in liquidation and is unable to provide the service sold. 
They consider this a breach of contract which is also covered under S75.
Having not received a response to Mr Cs claim, the PR referred Mr Cs complaint to this 
service whereupon one of our investigators referred matters to BPF for their comments and 
observations. In response, BPF said they believe that Mr Cs claim was made too late under 
the provisions of the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA). They also didnt uphold the claim for 
breach of contract because the resort was still in operation and the liquidation of S had not 
affected Mr Cs ability to use his timeshare.
Having considered everything that had been said and provided, our investigator didnt think 
BPFs response was unfair or unreasonable. Our investigator also didnt think there was any 
evidence to suggest the loan BPF provided was unaffordable for Mr C. Or that there was any 
other reason to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
The PR didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked for additional time to provide 
further information and submissions to support their arguments. The PR subsequently 
provided a 12-page document in support of Mr Cs claim. I dont intend to repeat everything 
that the PR has said and provided as the content is quite lengthy and detailed. But in 
summary, the PR have provided arguments to suggest:
our investigators findings included various inaccuracies;
the alleged breach of contract should not be limited to Mr Cs ability to use his 
timeshare but should include any loss of legal recourse to S;
there is provision within section 32 of the LA to postpone limitation due to deliberate 
and/or fraudulent concealment;
Ss failure to comply with the relevant legislation, regulations and code of practice 
was concealed from Mr C and he only discovered this once he engaged the PR in 
September 2019;
failure to comply with the applicable law and regulations reasonably constitutes a 
breach of contract which was concealed and not obvious to Mr C;
BPFs affordability assessment was flawed and irresponsible and wasnt discovered 
by Mr C until he engaged the PR in September 2019;
Mr C couldnt reasonably have become aware he had cause for complaint prior to the 
involvement of the PR and as a consequence, his complaint to this service was made 
in time under the provisions of DISP1 rule 2.8.2 R (2) (b); and
this service has more scope for discretion in extending time limits than the courts and 
is entitled to look at an outcome that is fair and reasonable, not simply an order the 
courts would make. 
As an informal resolution couldnt be achieved, Mr Cs complaint was passed to me to 
consider and reach a final decision. Having done that, while I was inclined to reach the same 
outcome as our investigator, Id considered some issues which I dont feel had previously 
been fully addressed. So, I issued a provisional decision on 28 September 2023 giving both 
parties the opportunity to respond with any new information or evidence for me to consider 
before I reach a final decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
1 The Dispute Resolution Sourcebook from the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook of Rules and GuidanceS75 provides protection to consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Mr 
C paid for the timeshare product using a restricted use fixed sum loan. So it isnt in 
dispute that S75 applies here. This means that Mr C is afforded the protection offered 
to borrowers like him under those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken this section 
into account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr C and BPF arising out of 
the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). And because the 
product purchased was funded under the credit agreement, theyre deemed to be 
related agreements. Only a court has the power to make a determination under 
S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what I believe is fair 
and reasonable. 
Given the facts of Mr Cs complaint, relevant law also includes the LA. This is 
because the original transaction - the purchases funded by a loan with BPF - took 
place in 2012. Only a court is able to make a ruling under the LA, but as its relevant 
law, Ive considered the effect this might also have.
Its relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision 
of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we dont 
provide a legal service. And this service isnt able to make legal findings  that is the 
role of the courts. So, in Mr Cs case, this service is only able to consider whether 
BPFs response to his claim was fair and reasonable given all the information and 
evidence available. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings of an 
ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address in my decision every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Was the claim of misrepresentation under S75 made in time?
The PR says the supplier misrepresented the nature of the purchase agreement and 
benefits to Mr C when he agreed to purchase the product. And they believe this 
brings cause for a claim under S75.
But a section 75 claim is an action [that is, court action] to recover any sum by virtue 
of any enactment under section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that 
provision is six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. So here, 
Mr C had to make a claim within six years of when he entered into the purchase 
contract and credit agreement. The PR confirm this took place in April 2012. Thats 
because this is when they say Mr C lost out having relied upon the alleged false 
statements of fact at that time.
Details of the alleged misrepresentations were submitted by the PR to BPF in May 
2020. But as this was more than 6 years after the purchase was completed and Mr C 
first says he lost out; I believe a court is likely to find that his claim falls outside of the 
time limit permitted in the LA. 
Was the unfair relationship claim under S140A made in time?
A claim under Section 140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statute  which is 
also governed by Section 9 of the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a 
claim is also six years from the date on which the cause for action accrued. However, in determining whether or not the relationship complained of was unfair, 
the High Courts decision in Patel v Patel (2009) decided this could only be 
determined by having regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially 
relevant matters up to the time of making the determination. In that case, that was 
the date of the trial or otherwise the date the relationship ended.
So, having considered this, I believe the trigger point here is slightly different. Any 
relationship between Mr C and BPF continued while the finance agreement remained 
live. So, that relationship only ended once the agreement ended and any borrowing 
under it was repaid.
BPF said that Mr Cs loan account was closed on 9 October 2012. And as this was 
more than six years before Mr Cs claim was submitted to BPF, I believe its likely a 
court would find that his S140A claim also falls outside of the time limit permitted in 
the LA.
Could the limitation period be postponed?
The PR have provided lengthy and detailed arguments to support their belief that the 
limitation period should be extended under Section 32 of the LA. The PR suggest 
there were aspects of the transaction and associated agreement, together with 
alleged breaches of applicable legislation and regulations, that were concealed 
(fraudulently or otherwise) from Mr C. And as a non-sophisticated consumer, the PR 
believes Mr C couldnt reasonably have been aware of those alleged concealments.
Section 32(1)(b) applies when any fact relevant to the plaintiffs right of action has 
been deliberately concealed from him by the defendant. But the PR havent provided 
me with anything persuasive to suggest that S deliberately concealed anything from 
Mr C. And as I cant see why, given the allegations fuelling each claim, these 
particular issues prevented Mr C from making his claim or simply raising a complaint 
earlier, my view is that this particular argument by the PR doesnt help his cause. 
The PR have, for example, referenced the allegation that the product purchased was 
represented as an investment contrary to the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale 
and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the TRs). However, the documentation 
signed and initialled by Mr C at the time of the sale was clear in saying, We 
understand that the purchase of timeshare weeks/club membership is for the primary 
purpose of holidays and is not a financial investment and any subsequent resale of 
timeshare weeks/club memberships at a profit is a speculative venture and that [S] 
do not offer any guarantees of resale times. 
So, while acknowledging Mr Cs own recollections, I think S made it very clear the 
transaction wasnt an investment. Because of that, I cant say that S deliberately (or 
otherwise) concealed that fact from him. And as I think a court is likely to find that the 
misrepresentation claim was made too late, I dont believe I need to consider this 
aspect further.
I also dont think the contract can have been marketed and sold as an investment 
contrary to the TRs simply because there might have been some inherent value to Mr 
Cs timeshare. And in any event, Ive found nothing within the evidence provided to 
suggest S provided any assurances or guarantees about the future value of the 
product purchased. S would had to have presented the membership in such a way 
that used its investment element to persuade Mr C to contract. Only then would it 
have fallen foul of the prohibition on marketing and selling certain holiday products as 
an investment, contrary to Regulation 14(3) of the TRs.
Its argued that the payment of any commission by BPF to S was deliberately 
concealed from Mr C. I dont think the fact that BPF might have paid S commission 
was incompatible with their role in the transaction. S wasnt acting as an agent of Mr C, but as the supplier of contractual rights obtained under the timeshare product 
agreement. And, in relation to the loan, based upon what Ive seen so far, it doesnt 
appear it was Ss role to make an impartial or disinterested recommendation or to 
give Mr C advice or information on that basis. 
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest BPF were under any regulatory 
duty to disclose the amount of any commission paid in these circumstances. Nor is 
there any suggestion or evidence that Mr S had previously requested those details 
from BPF or S. So, I cant reasonably conclude that any (alleged) failure to disclose 
would constitute concealment under S32.
Based upon my findings above, Im not persuaded that theres any reason why a 
court might decide time could be extended under the provisions of S32. However, the 
PR have suggested that the time limits within the LA do not apply as the increase in 
annual management fees gives Mr C a fresh right of action each year. I dont agree 
on this point. This aspect formed part of the contract Mr C signed, and I think Mr C 
wouldve been aware of the annual fee increase. Particularly as he would have 
experienced the documented year on year annual fee changes from the early stages 
of his timeshare ownership. Theres no evidence he raised concerns or a complaint 
about this. 
DISP2 rule 2.8.2 R (2) (b)
The PR have referenced this particular rule in their submissions to this service. They 
believed the claim wasnt time barred as Mr C only became aware he had cause to 
complain in or around September 2019. And as Mr Cs claim was then made within 
three years, they believe it was made in time. 
However, the DISP rules specifically relate to complaints against regulated 
businesses in respect of financial products and services provided. They do not apply 
to legal claims. As Ive explained above, the rules and timescales that apply to legal 
claims are set out in the provisions of the LA. 
The complaint this service is considering relates to Mr Cs dissatisfaction with BPFs 
response to his claim  not the legal claim itself. As Ive said above, this service isnt 
able to make findings on legal claims. I can only consider whether BPFs response to 
it was fair and reasonable. So, I dont agree that DISP 2.8.2 applies to Mr Cs legal 
claim. Only to his complaint - which was made in time under those rules.
The breach of contract claim under S75
BPF said that whilst S may have entered an insolvency process, the current 
management company have confirmed that timeshare owners remain able to fully 
utilise their timeshare products subject to the associated agreements. The PR 
suggest that a breach arises as Mr C no longer has legal recourse to S under the 
original agreement. But in the absence of any specific explanation or evidence to 
support why Mr C believes theres been a breach of contract which directly resulted 
in a loss for him, I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude there was 
such a loss.
The PR have further extended their arguments about what they believe constitutes a 
breach of contract. In particular referencing alleged failures in Ss adherence to 
applicable legislation, regulations and codes of conduct. I cant see that these 
specific contract breach allegations formed part of the original claim submitted to 
BPF in May 2020. As such, BPF havent been given an opportunity to investigate and 
respond. So, I cant see how they can form part of the complaint thats being 
considered here.
2 The Dispute Resolution Sourcebook from the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook of Rules and GuidanceCredit Assessment
Accepting that I believe Mr Cs claim was brought too late, there are certain aspects 
that could be considered outside of S140A. In particular, in relation to whether a 
proper credit assessment was undertaken. Neither S nor BPF have provided any 
explanation or evidence to support how and if a credit assessment was completed. 
And given the passage of time, its now likely this information may no longer be 
available anyway. 
If I were to find that the required checks and tests hadnt been completed  and I 
make no such finding  I would need to be satisfied that had such checks been 
completed, they wouldve revealed that loan repayments werent sustainably 
affordable for Mr C in order to consider upholding his complaint here. However, I 
havent seen any information or evidence about his actual financial situation at the 
time. And theres no obvious suggestion or evidence that he struggled to maintain 
repayments. 
And given Mr C confirms he repaid the loan with BPF from personal savings well 
within 12 months of first taking it up, there doesnt appear to be any evidence of loss 
here either.
Summary
Having considered everything available, and for the reasons mentioned above, I 
believe its likely a court would find that Mr Cs claim was brought to BPF too late 
under the provisions of the LA. And as Ive found no other reason to uphold his 
complaint, I dont currently intend asking BPF to do anything more here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BPF confirmed their agreement to my provisional findings. Despite follow attempts by this 
service, neither Mr C nor the PR have provided any response to my provisional decision.
In the circumstances and having received nothing new to consider, Ive no reason to vary 
from my provisional findings. So, for the reasons already explained, I will not be asking BPF 
to do anything more here.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman