DRN-4047636
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Curtis Banks Ltd (CBL) failed to properly manage the collection 
of rental payments due in respect of commercial property owned within their CBL SIPPs.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E ran a business for many years, trading from land and premises beneficially 
owned by both of them (Mr E  95%, Mrs E  5%). For ease of reference, Ill refer to Mr E 
only in this decision. Their respective interests in these premises were held within separate 
SIPPs in their names. Their business occupied these under separate leases (one for 
premises at a rate of £60,000 per annum, and another for the adjacent land at a rate of 
£3,500 per annum) from the SIPP Trustee as landlord. In 2016, Mr E sold their company  
with the company, under new unconnected management, continuing to trade from the land 
and premises under the terms of the existing leases. 
After the business sale, the tenant company soon ceased making payments under the lease 
- quarterly rent on the main premises was only paid until December 2019, whereas rent for 
the smaller parcel of land was only paid up until December 2017. 
CBL had continued sending quarterly invoices in respect of each lease to the tenant, but 
these were ignored. At the beginning of 2021, CBL began chasing the arrears, believing at 
that time the main property arrears were £30,000 only. Discussions with Mr E in February 
and March 2021  who says he was unaware of the backlog until then - alerted CBL to the 
fact the arrears were greater than that. A Final Arrears Notice was sent in March 2021.  No 
payments were received. In the meantime, the tenant company had been experiencing 
financial problems, culminating in it entering Liquidation in July 2021. The leases were 
formally disclaimed by the Liquidator eight days later.
Mr E complained to CBL in July 2021. He felt their negligence had caused a loss to his SIPP 
of over £100,000 in lost rental payments  had they carried out their invoice chasing/debt 
recovery actions properly, this loss was unlikely to have occurred. 
CBL acknowledged mistakes had been made in the collection process. Rent collection and 
arrears recovery procedures werent followed. They admitted not knowing the full extent of 
the arrears until Mr E alerted them. And that the service CBL provided to Mr E fell well below 
the level he should have expected to receive. But, CBL said the contractual responsibility to 
make the rental payments was the tenants, and CBL werent liable for them not having done 
that. CBL went further by explaining they couldnt control the trading ability of the tenant. 
But in recognition of their service failings, they refunded £1,080 worth of charges, and £300 
compensation in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused by their actions.
Unhappy with this, Mr E complained to this Service. He reiterated his claim for compensation 
was essentially as a result of their negligent lack of care and attention, and failure to fulfil 
their contractual obligations, which caused a loss to his SIPP of over £100,000  he wasnt 
suggesting CBL automatically became liable for the unpaid rent. And he questioned whether 
the invoices had been sent on time  as copy invoices provided by CBL showed sequential 
invoice numbers, which he felt showed they were issued at the same time. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, and whilst agreeing that CBLs actions 
fell below the standards Mr E was entitled to expect, he concluded that CBL were not liable 
for the losses caused by the unpaid rent. The investigator highlighted the terms of the lease, 
which makes clear its the tenants legal obligation to pay the rent. And he felt that, even had 
further invoices been sent, theres nothing to suggest the outstanding rent would then have 
been paid. And having considered everything, he felt CBLs offer to reimburse fees and pay 
£300 distress compensation was fair. 
Mr E disagreed with this outcome. He felt that, because it was accepted CBL hadnt followed 
their processes properly, he (his SIPP) should be put back in the position it would have been 
in had CBL followed their processes correctly. He felt the investigator had misunderstood the 
basis on which he was seeking unpaid rent recovery from CBL. And Mr E felt the investigator 
had placed too much weight on the terms of the lease, which he felt were irrelevant in the 
context of his complaint. 
Mr E also referred to the terms of CBLs property guide, which includes reference to notifying 
[Mr E] in the event CBL experience problems recovering rental payments. He says this never 
happened. He repeated CBL have repeatedly admitted their failure to manage the collection 
process properly. Mr E said the only remaining question should be whether these admitted 
errors caused the £100K financial loss  which he believes is the case.
Unable to reach an acceptable outcome, Mr E asked for this complaint to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman, and so it was passed to me to consider further. And having considered the 
evidence, I reached a slightly different outcome, and so issued a Provisional Decision setting 
out my thoughts and proposed redress  in which I said as follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Im grateful to Mr E for proving a significant amount of commentary regarding this complaint. 
I can assure him that Ive read and considered everything hes sent. However, I wont be 
commenting on every point hes raised here, just the ones that I think are necessary to 
consider the fundamental elements of this complaint. No discourtesy is intended.  
CBL agree they failed to undertake the tasks relating to rental collection as they should have 
done. They issued invoices, and their systems or accounts personnel (for whatever reason) 
failed to identify when the tenant didnt pay these. There were no debt collection actions 
instigated until Mr E made them aware of the issue, by which time the tenant was in the final 
stages of its trading life, and no recoveries were made. 
A look at the CBL property guide identifies the extent to which they failed to undertake the 
tasks they were required to do. It sets out (at page 12) what tasks their property 
management team will undertake. This includes Invoicing and collecting rent. Further, 
under the heading Letting the Property (page 23), it says:
If we are experiencing prolonged difficulties on collecting rent our Property Credit 
Control Team will notify you. If we exhaust out internal rent chasing process without recovering the debt, we may move to formally pursuing the debt and/or to bring the 
lease to an end 
And, the CBL Terms and Conditions document, at point 10.28 (page 15) says CBL will be 
responsible for the following activities:
Invoicing and collecting rent and other sums due and where required pursuing any 
late payments in accordance with normal commercial arrears processes
But at point 10.37, it also confirms:
we will not be liable for any losses associated with the failure of any tenant to 
meet the obligations contained within the tenancy agreement.
So, whilst its clear CBL arent contractually liable for the unpaid rent - the legal obligation to 
pay rent was the tenants, and the tenants alone - I need to consider here the extent to 
which, if any, CBL are liable to make good the losses Mr Es SIPP suffered as a result of 
their agreed lack of appropriate actions. 
When a business has made a mistake, or not done something we think they should have 
done, we ask what would have happened had that mistake/omission not occurred  and 
further what that business needs to do to put their customer back into the position they 
would have been in had their mistake/omission not occurred. Its that principle that underpins 
how we approach complaints and consider what we believe is fair redress. 
But ascertaining what I think would have happened, had CBLs arrears collection process 
been actioned when it should have, is not a straightforward question to answer. CBL make a 
point, which in principle I agree with, that sending arrears/chaser invoices to the tenant 
wouldnt necessarily have guaranteed they would then have paid them. The tenant could 
have continued to ignore them or promised to pay the arrears and still then not paid them. 
Or, they could have paid them immediately.
This sums up the key issue here in terms of the what would have happened, but for 
question. The answer depends on the actions of a third party that are impossible to know. 
So, I need to think about what, based on the evidence I do have, I think is likely to have 
happened had the arrears been chased when they should have been.  
And, having thought very carefully about this, and considered all the points made by both 
parties, Im unable to reasonably conclude its likely the tenant would have paid the invoices 
had chasers been sent in a timely manner. In reaching this outcome, Im mindful of the 
evidence Ive seen in relation to what did happen, both in terms of historic invoice payments, 
and the wider issues pertaining to the financial health of the tenant. Ill explain.
The tenant paid both the smaller and larger invoices until the end of 2017, following which 
they continued paying the much larger invoice only for a further two years. Its clear the 
tenant knew about the smaller lease, and the continuing obligations under it, but seemingly 
decided to stop paying it in 2017  the reason isnt material here  whilst continuing to 
honour a separate lease costing twenty times as much for a further two years. That wasnt 
CBLs fault, that was the tenants decision. The tenant likely received invoices for both 
leases between 2017 and 2019, and seemingly decided not to pay one. So, Im not 
persuaded chaser invoices, or threats of collection activity, would have caused the tenant to 
start paying these 2017-2019 small lease payments or arrears either.  
And I cant ignore the fact the tenant company (and its wider group) began to experience 
significant financial problems at around this time  accounts filed at Companies House for the tenant, for the period ending September 2018, show a trading loss of approximately £4m 
in the previous 18 months, and it being Liquidated in September 2021. The small lease 
arrears began to accrue during this accounting period, and the larger lease arrears period 
(2020 onwards) was firmly within this accounting period too. 
Given this, Im unable to reasonably conclude that, had arrears letters been sent for both 
leases over the relevant periods, its likely the tenant would have paid these. My conclusion 
here is supported somewhat by the fact that, once arrears letters were sent at the beginning 
of 2021, they werent paid either, nor was there any attempt (as I understand) by the tenant 
to engage with CBL about the arrears. 
So, put simply, whilst its clear CBL failed to undertake any arrears chasing activities until 
2021  in clear breach of their obligations as set out in their property guide  Im unable to 
reasonably conclude the tenant would have paid the arrears had chaser invoices been sent, 
and so I cant fairly or reasonably hold them responsible for the losses Mr Es SIPP 
experienced resulting from that non-payment.  
I now want to address the point Mr E made about the lack of communication from CBL 
regarding the arrears. CBL werent obligated to advise Mr E every time a rental invoice was 
or wasnt paid. There was an online SIPP portal that contained the various transactions that 
took place on Mr Es SIPP each year (Ill expand on this point below). But as Ive outlined 
above, CBLs property guide says their credit control team should have contacted Mr E after 
it became clear there were debt recovery issues. Clearly, that couldnt happen here because 
the relevant team werent even aware that arrears were accruing. But had chaser letters 
been sent as they should, the knowledge of arrears would in theory have existed, prompting 
the likely process leading to Mr E being contacted. That opportunity was lost.
I also note CBLs point there was nothing to stop Mr E from checking his SIPP online portal, 
which would show details of his SIPPs performance  including income and expenses 
where appropriate. CBL have advised portal access was created in August 2016, and fully 
operative by 2017. Whilst there is clearly no obligation on Mr E to have done this, and 
records from CBL suggest Mr E only first logged on to this in 2019, we would usually think it 
reasonable to expect a consumer to check in with the performance of their pension/SIPP 
performance at least once a year. I think this is especially so given the value of the assets 
sat within Mr Es SIPP, and the level of rental income the SIPP was expecting. 
I acknowledge too what Mr E has said could have happened had he known earlier  he 
could have tried to intervene and make enquiries with the tenant (and sub-tenants, who he 
believes may have been paying their sub-tenant rent to the tenant). But for the reasons Ive 
already set out, I cant reasonably conclude that would have likely resulted in arrears being 
paid, or future rent being paid on time. And its possible that earlier knowledge of the arrears 
could have allowed Mr E to explore eviction and replacement of the tenant. However, given 
the date when the (larger) property lease started to fall into arrears  and taking account of 
the potential timescale an eviction process may have taken once instigated  I similarly cant 
reasonably conclude, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, earlier arrears knowledge 
would have allowed Mr E to have been able to mitigate his (SIPPs) loss in this way.
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I do think Mr E is entitled to a greater fee refund from 
CBL than hes been offered/given. I then set out my proposed redress. CBL responded and accepted my PD outcome, but Mr E 
didnt. He provided some documents for me to read, and a very detailed response. I can 
assure Mr E that Ive read and considered everything hes provided, although I wont be 
commenting on every point here. Thats deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving 
disputes between financial businesses and their customers. So, as with my PD, Ill focus on, 
and respond to, what I believe are the key complaint issues Mr Es raised. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CBL raising and sending invoices to the tenant, and their credit control process
Mr E thinks my PD findings, that CBL had inadequate credit control procedures, misses the 
point  whilst true, he believes their failure to invoice was the catalyst for the subsequent 
problems. No invoicing meant credit control would never have rectified the situation.
Mr E remains convinced CBL didnt send any invoices to the tenant in relation to the small 
parcel of land until he contacted them at the beginning of 2021. He still thinks CBL didnt 
send some invoices in respect of the main site from the beginning of 2020 onwards. And, 
some main site invoices were backdated, as were all small parcel invoices. 
Mr E raised further questions about the validity of documents supplied to us (and him) which 
CBL said were copies of invoices raised at the time in Bristol. He mentions the non-
sequential numbering of the invoices again - how do invoices for March and June 2020 have 
later numbers than those for September and December 2020. He also points to invoices 
which advise no payment is necessary because payment will be collected via Direct Debit 
(DD)  asking if thats correct, why were March and June 2020 not then collected by DD? He 
also repeats his unhappiness with the explanations wed been provided with about what 
happened when the invoicing process moved from the Bristol office to the Ipswich one. 
Mr E isnt providing me with any new information for me to consider here, instead asking that 
I essentially reconsider the information Ive already reviewed. I appreciate his extreme 
frustration at how CBL managed the rent collection, and particularly their significant failure to 
carry out their defined arrears collection processes. And I have looked again at the evidence 
provided by both parties. Ive also made further enquiries with CBL to understand more 
about the DD discrepancy, and to ask if CBL could provide any additional evidence to 
confirm the dates invoices were sent, and to which address.
CBL havent been able to provide much in the way of compelling extra information. They 
advised that DD was the payment method for the main site rent whilst administered by the 
Bristol office (following which rent needed to be paid into a different Ipswich office bank 
account). And whilst advising what the general process was if a DD request wasnt paid, 
they havent provided any case-specific detail to confirm what happened after their DD 
requests for the March, June and September 2020 payments werent paid.   
But CBL has provided an internal payment system screenshot, appearing to set out the 
dates invoices were raised, and payments received. In relation to the main site, this shows 
that DD payments were regularly received, the last one being on 17 December 2019 for the 
December 2019 quarter. The screenshot for the smaller site is less helpful. It doesnt record 
the payment method for the periods to August 2017 when payments stopped and appears to 
suggest some 2017 invoices were paid in 2015, which raises some questions about its 
accuracy. However, I think the information it contains regarding the main site is useful here. It appears 
to show CBLs (Bristol) rent payment processes went beyond simply issuing an invoice  an 
automatic request for payment was made via DD as well. This process appears to have 
worked without issue up until December 2019. And, Ive seen nothing that persuades me 
invoicing or continued attempts to collect the Bristol main site rent via DD wouldnt have 
continued after that, until the administration moved across to the Ipswich office. 
As Ive said, the information regarding the smaller parcel of land seems less certain. And I 
appreciate its impossible to ask Mr E to prove invoices for this werent sent  difficult to 
prove a negative in this situation. Wed previously asked CBL to respond to Mr Es 
suspicions about the invoicing, and their numbering, and their response/explanation was 
provided to Mr E. I know Mr E still questions the substance or accuracy of that response. 
However, Ive seen no evidence that persuades me CBLs response is likely to be inaccurate 
or misleading. And I think the extra information CBL have provided, as mentioned above, 
supports that conclusion. I think its more likely than not their systems did ensure invoices 
were sent on time, as theyve indicated  and that the tenant stopped making payments in 
respect of the main site in the middle of 2019, and the smaller site in 2017. 
So, having concluded it is likely invoices were raised and sent, I want to consider again the 
arrears collection procedure. CBL admit this was very badly managed. I think their response 
to my DD enquiries reinforces that conclusion. And having looked again at the evidence 
available I still think CBLs fundamental failing here appears to be their complete failure to 
follow their arrears collection processes. And there is little I can add to what Ive already said 
in my PD on that point. 
Mr Es access concerns regarding the CBL SIPP portal
Mr E accepts he didnt spot the rent for the small parcel of land hadnt been collected since 
2017 when he first visited the portal in 2019  essentially because it was a small amount 
only, and he had difficulties accessing the site and interpreting information contained on it. 
Ive been provided with a log-in report by CBL, which shows Mr E first accessed the portal 
in August 2019, and then again not until February 2021.
Mr E commented that, between 2016-2019, the rent for the larger site was paid on time. And 
so, when he first logged on in 2019, thered have been no arrears on the main site, and so 
nothing to alert him of problems at that time. He also thinks my implied criticism of him on 
the portal access point is inappropriate. The portal was not fully functioning, and was difficult 
to use, and difficult to get assistance with. I can assure Mr E that my comments relating to 
him accessing the SIPP portal were not meant as criticisms. However, my job is to remain 
impartial and consider all the information when reaching an outcome, and not just that which 
evidences CBL not following their processes properly.  
I acknowledge what Mr E says about main site arrears not existing when he first logged on in 
2019. However, I believe the portal would have shown that main site payments werent 
being received from that point on (and the small parcel arrears would have been evident 
too). Regardless of any difficulties in understanding the data or how it was presented, which 
I acknowledge, this would still have been freely available to Mr E to access. 
And as I said in my PD, I think its reasonable to assume that a consumer with SIPP 
investments as valuable as here, with significant income being generated from those 
investments, would reasonably want to keep appraised of their performance. I repeat thats 
not a criticism of Mr E, but simply an acknowledgement that information about the tenant 
non-payment of rent could have been readily available to see.The financial wellbeing of the tenant, and the wider group in which it sat
Mr E suggests its wrong for me to look at the financial difficulties of the tenant in isolation, 
as the tenant is part of a much wider group. He explains the Liquidation was, in effect, an 
accelerated mergers and acquisition process, involving pre-packs of selected parts of the 
larger group to a new holding structure, which took time. Had Mr E known of the rent arrears, 
hed have been able to engage with the tenant/its board, with whom he had good relations 
following the sale of his company, to ensure payments were made. He appears to imply that, 
because the tenant wasnt a standalone company, but part of a much larger group, funding 
the rental would not have been a problem if they had been invoiced correctly. And there was 
enough time, if Mr E had been made aware, for him to have recovered unpaid amounts.
I appreciate the information Mr E has provided, but it doesnt alter my conclusions. The 
obligation to pay the rent was the tenant companys only. That company may well have been 
part of a pre-pack restructure process, but its filed accounts show it to have made a trading 
loss of about £4m in the 18-month period between April 2017 and September 2018. This 
suggests the company was struggling to pay its bills at the time the main lease arrears 
started to build up, and may explain why it stopped making rent payments when it did (or 
why DDs were returned unpaid from 2020 onwards).
I acknowledge Mr E believes had he been able to contact the tenant (or wider group) earlier 
in the arrears period, hed have been able to get them to pay the arrears, but Ive seen 
nothing that persuades me this would likely have happened. 
Mr E became aware of the arrears in the early part of 2021  before the liquidation and 
subsequent lease disclaimer by up to four months  but appears to have been unable to 
generate any payment from the tenant (or wider group) in that time. I dont know what steps 
Mr E was able to take to try and secure the arrears payments, but I dont need to either. And 
what Ive said is certainly not a criticism of Mr E or any efforts he made. But I think this does 
support my conclusion about what would most likely have happened if CBL carried out its 
arrears recovery processes correctly. Had they done this as they should, and when they 
should, Im not persuaded it would have resulted in the tenant paying the arrears upon 
receipt of further letters. I havent seen any evidence that suggests collection activity would 
have prompted arrears to be paid by (or on behalf of) the tenant.
Conclusion
So, for the reasons Ive outlined, Im satisfied CBL did more likely than not send rent invoices 
to the tenant on a timely basis  or at the very least Ive not seen anything that persuades 
me CBL didnt send the initial rental invoices on time (whether from their Bristol or Ipswich 
office). CBL have already acknowledged their arrears-chasing processes were not followed, 
which I agree with. But I still cant fairly conclude that CBLs failures in this regard caused the 
losses Mr Es SIPP experienced when rent wasnt paid, and so I wont be asking CBL to pay 
anything in addition to what Id set out in my PD, which I repeat below.
Putting things right
Mr E thinks CBL should be held responsible for the £100,000-odd of unpaid rent and told to 
repay this. For the reasons Ive explained above, I disagree and wont be asking CBL to 
compensate Mr E (his SIPP) for the unpaid rent. CBL thinks their refund of £1,080 of fees, 
made up of £300+VAT partial refund of 2018, 2019 and 2020 annual property fees, plus 
£300 compensation for distress is sufficient redress. I disagree with this also. I agree with CBL when they explain the operation of a commercial property SIPP involves 
more than just managing rental income. I appreciate there are other activities that variously 
need undertaking, including lender reporting, tax reporting, lease alterations etc. And its only 
fair that, notwithstanding their failure to undertake the majority of their rental collection 
activities professionally, they should still be entitled to be paid for that work. I agree with that 
in principle. 
However, one of the fundamental elements of holding a commercial property in a SIPP is to 
generate income. There were tasks that should have been done to assist with that, which 
CBL admit were repeatedly overlooked. And I think that oversight needs to be properly 
considered in the context of deciding what fees I think were fair for CBL to charge  or more 
precisely what fees I think its fair and reasonable for them to now refund. 
CBL have provided an overview of fees charged to Mr and Mrs Es SIPPs, providing figures 
for various categories  some are yearly personal SIPP fees (for managing the SIPPs in 
each of Mr and Mrs Es names). Others are yearly property-related fees. Its these I think 
need to be considered.
The yearly property fees overview supplied hasnt broken down the various elements for 
each years charges, so its not possible to identify which amounts are for tasks that are 
unconnected with the rental collection. They also dont break down the amounts relating to 
each separate lease, which is important because CBL continued doing what it should have 
done in respect of the larger lease for two years after it began overlooking the smaller one. 
So, in respect of the both lease inactivity period from 2020 onwards, I can see CBL issued 
property related invoices totalling £1,170 (I presume net of VAT), payable on 1 December 
2019. I think, in the circumstances here, its fair that most of this fee is refunded, and I think 
an 80% reduction is a fair amount - £856.
In respect of the following both lease period (2021), fees of £1,050 were charged. CBL did 
start issuing unpaid invoice reminders in this period, until the company entered Liquidation in 
July 2021. Accordingly, I think a fair fee refund amount for this would be 40% - £420. 
In respect of the earlier fees charged  when just the smaller rent amounts werent being 
chased  CBL had issued invoices across the relevant years both totalling £1,781.50. In 
respect of these periods, I think a smaller refund is due, and I think a fair amount here would 
be 25% - £445.38.
So, in total, I think a fair and reasonable outcome here would be for CBL to refund total fees 
and charges to Mr and Mrs Es SIPP accounts (in the relevant proportions) of £1,721.38  
less the £900 (+VAT) previously refunded. 
Distress and Inconvenience
Its clear this episode has caused Mr and Mrs E considerable distress and inconvenience  
Mr E in particular has clearly had to spend considerable time engaging with CBL on the 
matter and in trying to understand what happened, and why. Whilst placing a value on 
distress isnt an exact science, I dont think the £300 already offered provides a fair reflection 
of the distress caused. I think £800 provides a better reflection, and thats what I propose to 
award in total here. My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint against Curtis Banks Ltd, and require them to refund their 
fees to their respective SIPPs as outlined above, and pay a total of £800 compensation for 
distress (less £300 already offered if that has been paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman