DRN-2612313
The complaint
Miss D and Mr O complain that, in the course of repairing a leak under their home 
emergency insurance with Aviva Insurance Limited, damage was caused to the tiles in their 
downstairs bathroom. The matter was dealt with by the emergency call-out service though 
for convenience I shall refer to Aviva throughout.
What happened
In October 2020 Mr O made home emergency claims. He had several call-outs relating to 
the upstairs radiators and the boiler. Those matters are being dealt with separately 
elsewhere. In respect of this complaint, Mr O had suffered a leak in his downstairs bathroom. 
He alleged that, in the course of repairing the leak, the engineer damaged the bathroom 
floor, scratching some tiles and cracking another tile.
Aviva denied liability for the tiles. With regard to the cracked tile Mr O had a photo of it which 
he said was taken before the call-out, showing it undamaged. However it wasnt date or time 
stamped. The engineer had also taken a photo of it, to show that the damage was pre-
existing and he had noted this on his call-out sheet. Again this photo wasnt time or date 
stamped. With regard to the other tiles the engineer denied damaging those. They hadnt 
been pointed out to him at the time and he had used a dust sheet and kept his tools in their 
bag. Aviva said that it was unlikely that the damage was caused by its engineer and that, as 
with the cracked tile the damage was likely already there. It said that the mere placing of a 
panel on the floor wouldnt have caused the damage.
Our investigator said there is conflicting evidence as to whether the engineer used a dust 
sheet. She thought it plausible that the scratches to the tiles were caused by the engineer. 
But she didnt think that the engineer had caused the cracking to the other tile. She said that 
Aviva should consider Mr Os cost for repairing the damage.
Aviva didnt agree and the matter has been referred to me for further consideration.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
cracked tile
The engineer denies having caused this damage to the tile. He says it was pre-existing and 
took a photo of it and marked it on his job sheet. Although there is space for the customer to 
countersign, Aviva says because of covid restrictions, at present customers arent asked to 
do that. Although on other occasions with other engineers the job sheets have been 
countersigned, this particular engineer didnt do that. I think thats reasonable. And, as the 
cracked tile was clearly there on the day of the visit, I dont think its likely that the engineer 
took a photo of the cracked tile, having cracked it, and then said it was pre-existing. And 
although Mr O has a photo of the tile undamaged, we dont know when that photo was taken 
or what might have happened between that point and the day of the engineers visit. So I 
dont think its likely that the tile was cracked by the engineer.
scratched tiles
The scratching to the tiles wasnt noticed by Mr O on the day, but he did complain about it 
the next day. And when Aviva sent out its assessor, they noted the scratches on the floor, 
allegedly caused by the engineer. The engineer said at first that he had kept his tools in his 
bag so couldnt have caused the scratches. He later said hed used a dust sheet, and that he 
had removed a tiled panel and placed it on the floor. Though Mr O has shown us a photo of 
a subsequent visit by a different engineer, dealing with the same area, who didnt use a dust 
sheet.
Aviva says its possible, as with the cracked tile, that this damage was also pre-existing, and 
that the putting down of a tiled panel wouldnt have caused the scratches.
My view is that its likely that the engineer didnt use a dust sheet. The tiles are marble so I 
think one should have been used. I dont know whether the damage was caused by tools or 
by the placement of the panel on it. But I think its likely that the damage was caused by the 
engineer.
Mr O has had work done to the bathroom, but hasnt separated out the cost of the work for 
just repairing the scratches. Aviva should be allowed to consider the cost of that and make 
the appropriate payment.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Aviva to consider Miss D and Mr Os cost of repairing the 
scratched tiles (but not the cracked tile).  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr O 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman