DRN-3521467
The complaint
Mr D complains that due to an administrative error Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) caused his home insurance policy to lapse, leaving him uninsured.
What happened
Mr D moved to a new house in June 2021 and contacted RSA to update his policy 
information. He says he pays his premium annually, and each year receives a reminder 
around four weeks prior to the policy anniversary. He says when it got to January 2022, he 
called RSA as he thought he shouldve been contacted by this time. Mr D says the phone 
lines were closed but when he checked online, he found that his home wasnt insured. 
Mr D says he immediately set up a new policy, so cover was in place and phoned RSA the 
next day. He says RSA admitted to an error on its part which meant he hadnt been insured 
from the start of December 2021. It offered him £20 compensation that it later increased to 
£150. RSA told him it wouldve been liable had a claim been raised during the period he was 
uninsured due to its mistake. 
Mr D says he was caused a great deal of worry and distress by RSAs mistake. In addition, 
he has had to spend time setting up new insurance and in providing paperwork for high 
value items. 
Mr D says if something had happened when he wasnt insured this wouldve had a life 
changing impact on him and his family. He didnt think RSAs compensation offer recognised 
the risk he was put under and referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. She thought the compensation payment 
RSA offered was fair. She also thought it was reasonable that RSA accepted it was liable for 
any claims when Mr D was uninsured due to its mistake.
Mr D disagreed. He didnt think the payment offered by RSA was enough for the stress and 
panic caused when he discovered he wasnt insured. He also says this meant he was in 
breach of his mortgage agreement. Because he remained dissatisfied, he asked for an 
ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but 
I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
When Mr D called RSA in June 2021 to update his address, its agent failed to process this 
correctly. RSA doesnt dispute that it was at fault for the policy lapsing in December when 
payment for the next years premium wasnt received. 
I have seen the renewal information RSA sent in November 2021. This shows it was sent to 
Mr Ds old address.  
I have thought about the impact this had on Mr D when he found out he wasnt insured. 
I can understand why he felt panicked and stressed in these circumstances. If something 
had happened requiring a claim on his insurance, he was worried he wouldnt be covered. 
Mr D then had to spend time arranging new insurance. This included further time spent 
arranging a valuation for high value items to be covered. 
Mr D refers to being in breach of his mortgage agreement. I dont dispute what he says. I 
havent seen information to show this has created an issue with his mortgage provider. But I 
acknowledge this added to the worry Mr D felt at the time.  
RSA says it will have accepted liability for any claims for the period when Mr D was 
uninsured because of its mistake. I think this is reasonable given he acted correctly when 
informing it of his new address. Its RSAs fault this wasnt processed. But although I accept 
insurance cover wasnt in place when it shouldve been, I dont think Mr D has shown that he 
suffered a financial loss because of this. 
I acknowledge Mr Ds comments that he doesnt think RSA will have paid out on a claim 
when he wasnt insured. I understand his concern around this point. But from the information 
provided Mr D hasnt had cause to raise a claim relating to this period. In its final response 
RSA confirmed if there had been any claims it wouldve dealt with them. I have seen no 
reason to dispute this.  
By no means is my intention to diminish the impact RSAs mistake had on Mr D in terms of 
the distress he felt and the inconvenience he was caused. I dont think it treated him fairly 
when it failed to update his address correctly. But I do think RSAs offer of £150 
compensation is fair to acknowledge the impact this had. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do 
any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman