DRN-4280047
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd hasnt refunded him after his was the victim of an
Authorised Push Payment scam. 
What happened
Mr P found an exercise bike to purchase using a social media platform. He said the seller
had an existing profile, dating back three years. He spoke with the seller through the
platform messaging service and direct over the phone. He asked questions about the bike
he was purchasing, including asking if the seller had the original receipt of purchase and
warranty. The seller said they did and they would be included when the bike was delivered.
Mr P agreed with the seller to pay half for the bike upfront and the other half on receipt of the
bike. Mr P said the seller had other bikes for sale and his profile showed others he had sold.
The seller provided account details not in his own name, and said these were their partners.
After the payment was made, Mr P requested the delivery information. This wasnt
forthcoming and after the bike wasnt delivered on the agreed date, he could no longer reach
the seller he raised the matter as a scam with Monzo.
Monzo looked into the matter but decided not to refund Mr P. It said it contacted the
receiving bank when Mr P reported the scam, but no funds remained. It went on to say whilst
it isnt signed up the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) it considered if it could
reimburse Mr P but concluded Mr P didnt have a reasonable basis of belief when deciding 
to make the payment. It said it gave Mr P a warning at the time he made the payment, Mr P 
didnt carry out enough checks to ensure the sale was genuine, the price was too good to be 
true, and he didnt follow the guidance on the social media platform about selling 
responsibly. 
Our investigator looked into things and said Monzo should refund Mr P and pay 8% simple
interest from the date it declined the claim to the date of settlement. He thought Mr P had a 
reasonable basis of belief when making the purchase and payment. He thought he carried 
out a reasonable level of checks. He only transferred half the amount of the total cost  
agreeing to the pay rest on receipt of the bike. He researched the seller, who seemed 
genuine. Mr P also had a phone conversation with the seller, which added to the sellers 
credibility. Although he didnt use the recommended payment channel, this isnt uncommon 
and payments outside of this method are regularly used and can be legitimate. Monzo 
disagreed.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it was passed to me. I set out my provisional findings, 
which Ive included below. 
My provisional findings  
Monzo has said whilst it isnt a signatory to the CRM code it has considered the scam Mr P
fell victim to, in the spirit of the code, when deciding whether to refund him or not. As such I
have considered the application of the code here.
Monzo said it provided a warning as part of its requirements under the code. But I dont
think this is an effective warning. It doesnt bring to life how a purchase scam might feel and
what steps Mr P might have been able to take to protect himself from such a scam.
But ultimately, I dont think Monzo was required to give an effective warning under the CRM
Code, in these particular circumstances. I think this because the payment was a low value
one. Monzo was entitled to consider there were no apparent APP scam risks here. And Ive
found no other reason why Monzo ought to have contacted Mr P about the £425 payment
before he made it.
Moving on to other considerations under the code, Monzo is relying on an exemption to
refund Mr P, saying he made the payment without a reasonable basis of belief that the
payment was for genuine goods or services and/or the person or business with whom he
transacted was legitimate.
And I agree, there is enough persuasive evidence that Mr P ought to have been suspicious
about the purchase and therefore didnt have a reasonable basis of belief for proceeding
with this payment.
-Mr P has provided the message conversation between him and the seller and this 
shows he was inquisitive about the bike, asking questions about its condition, age 
and warranty.
-He asked that the original receipt and warranty be included when the bike was 
delivered. However, he didnt ask to see these documents before he made the 
payment. Its not clear why he asked about them but then didnt obtain copies before 
making any payment. They could have provided reassurance about the legitimacy of 
the bike sale.
-Mr P spoke to the seller over the phone. And I can see why this would have 
reasonably given Mr P some assurances about the intentions of the seller. But I think 
there were other things about the sellers behaviour, which ought to have concerned 
Mr P. The person he spoke to on the phone wasnt the same person that had placed 
the advert. The explanation being the sellers sister advertised the bike on the sellers 
behalf. But then an entirely different name is given for the account payee. I think this 
layering of three people involved should have caused Mr P to be concerned about 
who he was dealing with and where the payment was going.
-Monzo has said the price of the bike was too good to be true and I agree. There are 
a range of prices for the bike Mr P was attempting to purchase. Brand new it costs 
approximately £3,500 and second hand around £1,500. Mr P says hes seen the 
same product in the price bracket that he paid. I havent seen evidence of the bike 
being near the price Mr P agreed with the seller and most Ive seen are around 
£1,500, which is almost double the price he paid (which included delivery). So, I 
think, Mr P ought to have considered if this was an offer that was too good to be true.-Mr P says he did make enquiries about why the seller was selling this bike (and at 
that price) and was told they were looking for a quick sale. I think thats a somewhat 
suspicious reason, given the too good to be true price and other mentioned factors 
about how the seller was behaving. And there was no detail as to why a quick sale 
was being sought.
-Mr P agreed with the seller to pay for half the bike upfront and the other half on 
receipt of it. This seems like a sensible and cautious way to proceed and 
demonstrates Mr P did take some measures to protect himself and of course it has 
prevented him from losing the full amount hed agreed to pay for the bike. But he still 
proceeded with that payment and I think paying the reduced amount is some 
recognition of the risk involved here.
Overall, I think there were enough red flags about the sale and the sellers actions which
meant overall, I dont think Mr P had a reasonable basis of belief.
Monzo responded to the provisional decision to say it accepted my findings and had nothing 
further to add. Mr P responded to say he was disappointed with my findings. He felt he did a 
significant amount of research on the seller, who appeared genuine, with other items for sale 
and a lengthy history on the platform. He wasnt familiar with buying on this type of platform 
and had to rely on some kind of honesty and he feels he took reasonable steps to mitigate 
the risk. Hes seen other consumers who have been scammed and refunded by their bank 
and feels hes receiving different treatment from Monzo. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the additional comments from Mr P but they dont persuade me to reach a 
different outcome. As I have already set out, I think Mr P did take some steps to mitigate his 
losses but I think there were some obvious red flags about the arrangement between him 
and the seller that ought to have caused him to stop and question if the sale was legitimate. 
And he could have obtained the receipt and warranty which the seller said they had and this 
would have been a simple step to mitigate the existing risk - but he didnt do this. So overall 
Im persuaded Mr P didnt have a reasonable basis of belief when deciding to make this 
payment.
Every bank and case will be decided on its own merits, so I cant say because other banks 
have refunded, that Monzo is in the wrong not to refund here. My role is to decide if Monzo 
has fairly applied the CRM code here and the exception not to refund and I think it has. 
I know Mr P has said this was a lot of money to him and Im sorry hes been the victim of a 
scam but Im not asking Monzo to refund his losses here. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Sophia SmithOmbudsman