DRN-4103046
The complaint
Mr J complains that Lloyds Bank PLC lent irresponsibly when it approved his credit card 
application and went on to increase the credit limit on various occasions. 
What happened
Mr J successfully applied for a credit card with Lloyds in April 2010 and was given a £500 
credit limit. Over the years, Lloyds increased the credit limit several times. By September 
2016 the credit limit had increased to £6,100. Between January 2018 and October 2019 the 
credit limit was increased from £7,100 to £9,100. The credit limit was reduced in stages to 
£8,600 by January 2023. 
Last year, Mr J complained to Lloyds that it had lent irresponsibly in relation to his credit 
card. Lloyds initial response said Mr J had waited too long to complain about the original 
credit card application as it was only required to look back six years by the industry 
regulator. But Lloyds issued a follow up final response in February 2023 that looked at the 
credit limit increases in the six years before Mr J complained. Lloyds said it shouldve been 
evident in January 2018 further credit limit increases werent affordable and that Mr J 
appeared to have been in a cycle of debt. Lloyds agreed to refund £4,990.53 of interest 
applied to Mr Js credit card from January 2018 and paid him £200 for failing to address the 
credit limit increases in its first final response. Lloyds also advised it was withdrawing the 
credit card which would mean no further interest would be applied to the outstanding 
balance. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Js complaint. They thought Lloyds offer was fair 
and didnt ask it to take any further action. Mr J asked to appeal and said that despite 
upholding his complaint and making an interest refund he still owes around £3,000 to Lloyds. 
As Mr J asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Lloyds issued its initial final response it focused on the original credit card application 
Mr J made. And it confirmed that the rules set by the Financial Conduct Authority meant it 
will only look at lending decisions made in the six years before a complaint is made. As Mr 
Js original application was made in 2010, around 12 years before he complained, Lloyds 
advised the deadline to complain had passed. 
After Mr J referred his complaint to us, Lloyds looked back at his credit card and the credit 
limit increases it approved in the six years before he raised his concerns. Lloyds has 
confirmed it has upheld Mr Js complaint about irresponsible lending in terms of the credit 
limits that took place from January 2018 onwards. Lloyds says it reviewed Mr Js bank 
account along with his credit card history and found he appeared to be caught in a cycle of 
debt and shouldnt have increased the credit limit further. 
In line with the investigators review, Ive looked at the credit limit increases that took place in 
the six years before Mr J complained to Lloyds. 
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive taken our approach into account when reviewing Mr Js complaint. In 
summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it 
needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and 
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the 
credit and the consumers circumstances.
As a lending relationship continues over time and the level of credit increases, lenders may 
need to obtain further information from a borrower to check whether theyre lending 
responsibly and that the repayments are sustainable for the customer. 
I agree with Lloyds that it ought to have completed more comprehensive checks before 
increasing Mr Js credit limit to £7,100 in January 2018. At this point, Mr Js credit card had 
been open for around eight years and Lloyds hadnt asked for further information about his 
circumstances or finances. Lloyds has since looked back at Mr Js bank account and agreed 
there were signs he was struggling and that it shouldnt have increased his credit limit. As 
Lloyds has already upheld Mr Js complaint about the credit limits from January 2018 
onwards, as set out above, Im satisfied its dealt with his concerns fairly. 
Lloyds has already refunded £4,990.53 to the outstanding balance of Mr Js credit card. I 
know thats left an outstanding balance and Mr J has raised concerns about whether he can 
afford to repay it. But Lloyds has already confirmed its withdrawn the credit card agreement 
which means no further interest will be applied to the balance, increasing it further. And 
Lloyds has given details of its support team as well as other organisations that can offer 
advice if Mr J is experiencing financial difficulties. So whilst I understand Mr J is concerned 
about being able to afford repayments, Im satisfied Lloyds is willing to deal with him fairly 
and provide support. 
Lloyds initially failed to deal with Mr Js complaint in full and focused on the original credit 
card application. But Lloyds has subsequently paid Mr J £200 to apologise for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. In my view, the £200 settlement paid fairly reflects the 
inconvenience caused by the way Lloyds initially responded to Mr Js complaint. 
As Im satisfied Lloyds has already agreed a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed a settlement that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman