DRN-2401475
The complaint
Mrs B and Mrs Y complain as executors of the estate of Mrs S, that Phoenix Limiteds 
requirements for paying out the proceeds of an investment bond were illogical and has 
unnecessarily delayed the payment. They also complained they had been treated unfairly 
and in a discriminatory way because of the requirements.
What happened
Mrs S sadly passed away on 25 January 2020 and Mrs B telephoned Phoenix to make them 
aware of this. She and Mrs Y were named as executors under the Will and intended to, and 
subsequently did, apply for a Grant of Probate (GOP). 
Phoenix wrote to Mrs B and Mrs Y on 10 February 2020 enclosing a form of discharge and 
the small claim form which it asked to be completed if they werent applying for a GOP  
although the letter at the same time asked for a GOP to be provided.
Mrs B telephoned on 17 February 2020 and the telephone note records her unhappiness 
she was being asked to provide the GOP. The person she spoke to is recorded as 
explaining the decision to ask for this was made by its compliance team to ensure they are 
paying money to the right person.
On 19 February 2020 Phoenix wrote to Mrs B and Mrs Y and set out its requirements for 
payment out of the proceeds of the bond given this was below its small claims limit of 
£30,000. It explained they needed to complete the small claim form sent with its letter of 10 
February 2020 if they werent applying for a Grant of Probate (GOP), but that if they were 
applying for a GOP, they would need to provide this before payment was made.
Mrs B wrote to Phoenix on 24 February 2020 in response to this letter expressing her 
dismay at the contents and referred to her telephone call on the 17 February 2020 and the 
fact she had made a complaint and hadnt got an explanation as to why Phoenix required a 
GOP. She also referred to a call that was made to Mrs Ss number and the wrong name 
being used. 
In its final response letter of 26 February 2020 Phoenix acknowledged that its letter of 10 
February 2020 didnt clarify when a GOP was required and apologised for this but said its 
letter of 19 February 2020 did make the GOP requirements clear. It explained that it required 
the GOP as this would establish it was dealing with the person appointed by the court to 
administer Mrs Ss estate. Phoenix offered £100 because it had wrongly used Mrs Ss 
contact details and used the wrong name when it called. 
Phoenix chased for the documentation it needed  including the GOP  in a letter dated 14 
April 2020 which caused Mrs B to complain again - which complaint included a new issue 
about the insensitive wording used in the letter and using the wrong title for Mrs S. Phoenix 
responded on 1 May 2020 and upheld the complaint about the new issue and offered £50 for 
this. But it maintained its position regarding its requirement for the GOP to be provided 
before it would make payment. 
The GOP was issued on 26 July 2020 and Mrs B provided this to Phoenix after which it paid 
out the proceeds of the bond amounting to £16,704.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. In short, he thought 
that Phoenix was entitled to set its own rules as to how it dealt with claims when a customer 
passed away. He was satisfied that it had made clear that Mrs B and Mrs Y couldnt use its 
small claims route having applied for a GOP and that it followed its own rules. 
The investigator said that if Phoenix had paid out before the GOP was obtained it was 
possible the GOP wasnt granted to Mrs B and it would then have paid out to someone not 
entitled to the proceeds of the bond. He also said that Phoenix applies this approach to 
anyone in their position so hadnt been discriminatory.
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigator. She said that the investigator had referred to her 
being confused by Phoenixs letters but as she has previously made clear, she wasnt 
confused, and this isnt part of her complaint. She said she understands that each financial 
organisation has its own rules.
Mrs B said that her issue is that no one at Phoenix has been able to justify or explain the 
reason behind the rule requiring the GOP to be provided. She said that paying out when a 
GOP is being applied for doesnt increase the risk above that of paying out without a GOP. 
Mrs B also asked for confirmation that the decision isnt based on her and her sister not 
being people and having no right to compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that dealing with a loved ones estate after they pass away can be very 
upsetting, especially if there are what appear to be obstacles that seem to unnecessarily 
prolong matters. However, having considered the evidence Im not satisfied Phoenix did 
anything wrong. 
The facts of this complaint arent in dispute. Phoenix have a small claims process where a 
person is dealing with the disposal of an estate and the amount payable is less than 
£30,000. The bond that Mrs B and Mrs Y wanted to encash was less than £30,000 but 
Phoenix hasnt allowed them to use the small claims process.
The reason for this is that this process only applies where no GOP has been or will be 
obtained  as stated in Phoenixs small claims form and confirmed by it in subsequent 
letters. As Mrs B and Mrs Y confirmed that they were applying for a GOP they werent then 
eligible to use the small claims process and had to wait for the GOP being issued in July 
2020 before getting the proceeds of the bond. 
Mrs B says that she wasnt confused about what had happened and I accept that. She 
understands that Phoenixs process means that it wouldnt pay out the proceeds of the bond 
until after she had provided the GOP. She just doesnt agree that the process is logical and 
hasnt been provided with an explanation she finds satisfactory as to why it is necessary to 
provide a GOP before payment just because this is being applied for.
Mrs B has referred to other businesses paying out without sight of the GOP. But she 
acknowledges that Phoenix can have a process that differs from other businesses. And the 
fact that other businesses were willing to pay out without a GOP does not mean that Phoenix 
were being unreasonable because its process was more stringent. Im not persuaded that Phoenix isnt entitled to require sight of the GOP, when it is aware one is being applied for, 
when the amount in question is within its small claims limit. 
Im also not persuaded that Phoenix were obliged to provide any further explanation about 
its process to Mrs B. In other words, I dont think it is required to justify to her why its 
compliance department has decided it should follow this process, given this requirement isnt 
something that is obviously unreasonable in some way such that I think it needs to justify it. 
The basis of it paying out under its small claim process is that there will not be a GOP at all. I 
accept that in using that process it is possible that those completing the small claims form 
could mislead Phoenix. But if it pays out under that process based on the person completing 
the form and signing the declaration it wont have done anything wrong. Based on the 
information it has, no one else would be entitled to the proceeds of the bond. 
But where a GOP has been, or will be, applied for Phoenix is aware that the only person/s 
entitled to the proceeds of the bond will be the person/s appointed under the GOP. In most if 
cases this may well be the same person who wants to apply under the small claims process. 
But there is a possibility, however small, that the person ultimately appointed under the GOP 
isnt the person who completed the small claim form. 
Phoenixs position in that situation, given it is aware a GOP is being applied for, is different. 
As I have said, the possibility of this happening might be very small. But that doesnt mean 
Phoenixs process was unreasonable.
For completeness there is no issue about discrimination here. If there is no GOP and the 
amount is below £30,000 you can use the small claims process, if there is a GOP then you 
cant use that process. Having a different process depending on whether there is a GOP isnt 
discriminatory.
I note that Mrs B has asked for confirmation the decision isnt because she and Mrs Y arent 
people and arent entitled to compensation. The issue isnt about them being not being 
people but about this complaint being that of Mrs Ss estate, not theirs personally. They 
only act as representatives of the estate and as such wouldnt be entitled to any award for 
trouble and upset if I had upheld the complaint. I hope this clarifies this point. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman