DRN-3850996
The complaint
Mr C and Mr S complain about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a claim they made 
on a travel insurance policy.
Mr C and Mr S are represented by Mr C1.
What happened
In 2018, Mr C and Mr S travelled abroad on holiday. Unfortunately, in September 2018, Mr C 
was admitted to hospital and made a claim on his policy.
AXA didnt request the medical information it needed to assess Mr Cs claim until March 
2020. And it didnt review that medical evidence until June 2020. At that point, AXA decided 
to turn down the claim. But it didnt let Mr C and Mr S know its claims decision. Instead, Mr C 
didnt find out that the claim wasnt covered until he received a payment demand from the 
treating hospitals debt collector.
Mr C and Mr S made a complaint to this service about AXAs decision to decline their claim, 
which has already been considered by an investigator. Mr C1 subsequently made a 
complaint about the service Mr C and Mr S received from AXA and for the delays theyd 
experienced in the assessment of the claim.
AXA acknowledged thered been significant delays in the handling of the claim; in the 
request for and assessment of evidence. And it acknowledged that it hadnt discussed the 
decision to turn down the claim with Mr C and Mr S ahead of notifying the hospital of its 
conclusion. So it offered to pay Mr C and Mr S £250 compensation.
Mr C and Mr S werent happy with AXAs offer and so they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator thought AXAs offer was fair and reasonable. She appreciated that it 
wouldve been a shock for Mr C to receive the payment demand from the hospital. And she 
noted that AXA hadnt assessed the claim in line with its regulatory obligations. But she also 
noted that Mr C and Mr S hadnt been in contact with AXA between 2018 and the date the 
payment demand was received. So she didnt think there was evidence of a significant 
impact on Mr C during that period. Overall, she felt £250 compensation was a fair award.
Mr C1 disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to our investigator. He felt that our 
online compensation guidance indicated that Mr C and Mr S should be paid a substantially 
higher award. He said they hadnt chased AXA for an update between 2018 and 2020, 
because theyd had no reason to think there was an issue. But since 2020, when Mr C had 
found out that the claim had been declined, hed suffered two years of mental anguish. He 
also wasnt in a financial position to pay the bill. Thered been significant correspondence 
between Mr C and AXA once hed become aware that the claim wasnt covered.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr C and Mr S, I think AXA has made a 
fair offer to settle their complaint and Ill explain why.
First, its important that this decision will only consider the way that AXA handled Mr Cs 
claim and the service he received. I will not be considering AXAs decision to decline the 
claim. Thats because that issue has already been investigated and resolved by this service.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. Its 
clear that in this case, AXA acknowledges that it didnt handle Mr Cs claim promptly. He was 
admitted to hospital for treatment in September 2018 and it should have been apparent to 
AXAs claims team that it would need his medical records in order to establish whether the 
claim was covered or not. But it didnt request that information until March 2020  around 18 
months later. And it then took a further three months to assess the medical records and 
conclude that the claim wasnt covered. AXA has provided no explanation for the delay and I 
think the delay was both excessive and unreasonable. Id have reasonably expected AXA to 
assess this claim and communicate its decision far more quickly than it did. Its also 
unfortunate that AXA decided to tell the hospital about the claim decline prior to any 
discussion with Mr C.
Given Mr C hadnt heard from AXA or the hospital following his claim, I can entirely 
understand why hed have believed the claim was settled. So I appreciate that the payment 
demand he received after almost two years must have come as a real shock to him and 
caused him material upset. I think its appropriate that AXA pays Mr C compensation to 
recognise this.
However, I do need to bear in mind that between September 2018 and June 2020, while the 
claim wasnt progressing as it ought to have done, neither had Mr C received any 
communications during that period to cause him concern or inconvenience. And it seems to 
me that even if AXA had declined the claim in 2018, or shortly afterwards, Mr C was always 
likely to have been caused upset and concern. Hed also have still been liable for the 
hospital fees.
So in my view, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to direct AXA to pay additional 
compensation for the 2018 to June 2020 period, as during that time, I cant reasonably say 
its actions caused any additional distress or inconvenience to Mr C. And I dont find it would 
be fair for me to award compensation for the upset Mr C was caused when the claim was 
turned down either or for the worry hes experienced since. Thats because after June 2020, 
Mr C was aware of AXAs claims decision.
I dont doubt how upsetting this situation has been for Mr C and Mr S. But in my view, £250 
compensation is a fair award to reflect the material distress and inconvenience I think they 
were caused by AXAs delay in assessing the claim and its failure to communicate the 
outcome to them in June 2020. I also think this fairly reflects the upset I think Mr C was 
caused when he received an unexpected payment demand some considerable time after the 
claim was made and when he reasonably thought it had been settled. It is this I think he 
should be compensated for, not the fact that the claim wasnt covered. So my decision is that 
AXA should now pay Mr C and Mr S a total of £250 if it hasnt already done so.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that AXA has made a fair and 
reasonable offer of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman