The complaint
Mrs S complains about the settlement that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV) has offered for her car under her motor insurance policy.
Background
Mrs S made a claim on her motor insurance after she accidently damaged her car. Her 
insurer  LV  has deemed the car to be beyond economical repair so it offered to pay the 
market value of the car in line with the policy terms. 
LVs settlement offer was for £1,500 minus the policy excess which it says is the market 
value of the car. But Mrs S wasnt happy as she wanted the car to be repaired and not 
written off. She also says the amount offered didnt reflect that, in her opinion, the car is a 
classic car which will increase in value. She believes the car is worth in the region of £4,000. 
So as a compromise, LV has offered to pay a cash settlement of £1400 minus the excess so 
that Mrs S can keep the car, and have it repaired herself. 
This offer hasnt been accepted by Mrs S because her estimate for repairs is more than LVs 
offer. She feels that both offers LV has made would leave her with a shortfall. So shes 
brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied LV 
had met its obligations under the terms and conditions of the motor policy. And the offers it 
had made were fair. 
As Mrs S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the motor insurance policy. It says that where the insured vehicle is damaged 
by an accident, LV will either 1) pay for repairs; 2) replace what is damaged; or 3) pay the 
market value of the car at the time of the damage. 
The policy defines the market value as the cost of replacing [the] car with one of the same 
make, model and specification, taking into account the age, mileage and condition of [the] 
car. It says to determine the market value, LV will ask an engineer for advice and refer to 
motor trade guides and other relevant sources. In addition, it will consider what the car 
couldve sold for had it been for sale immediately before the accident; but not the price Mrs S 
paid for it. DRN-1150173
LV obtained an estimate to have the car repaired. Ive seen the engineers report which 
provides a breakdown of the damage and the work needed. The engineer has quoted 
£1,842.32 to repair the car. Mrs S has sought her own estimate, which amounts to 
£2,028.48. 
LV has valued the car, using the trade guides, at £1,500. For this reason, it considers the car 
to be beyond economical repair. So it has offered to pay the market value minus the policy 
excess. 
We dont provide valuations for cars but instead we can assess whether the insurers offer is 
reasonable. In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations 
from motor trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand cars. We find these 
guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on 
nationwide research and actual sales figures. The guides also take into account regional 
variations. We also take all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers 
reports.
I can see that our investigator checked the valuations that LV found for the market value of 
Mrs Ss car at the time of loss. The retail transacted valuations given took into account the 
cars condition, mileage and any extras. Having reviewed these, I think LVs valuation is a 
fair one.
Im satisfied that LV has assessed both the repair costs and the market value of the car 
fairly. I say this because its taken expert advice from an engineer and the trade guides 
available. By offering Mrs S the market value of the vehicle, LV has fulfilled its responsibility 
under the motor policys terms and conditions. 
Im also satisfied that LV has treated Mrs S in the same way it treats all its customers when 
dealing with a claim of this nature. This is because it has set out within the policy terms that 
it will calculate the market value of a car by asking an engineer for advice and referring to 
motor trade guides. And this is what LV has done on Mrs Ss claim. So, Im not persuaded 
that LV need do anything more for Mrs S. 
I can appreciate why Mrs S doesnt want her car to be deemed a total loss. Its clear she 
would prefer to keep the car and get it repaired instead. So, Im pleased to see that LV also 
took this into consideration and made an additional offer to pay a cash settlement of £1,400 
minus the policy excess to allow Mrs S to have the car repaired. I think this is more than fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
 My final decision
 For the reasons I've given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2019.
Angela Casey
Ombudsman