DRN-3725174
The complaint
Mr N complains about his home emergency policy with British Gas Insurance Limited (British 
Gas). The complaint is about how British Gas responded to a problem with a blocked sink. 
References to British Gas in this decision include their agents who provide services under 
the policy.
What happened
In March 2022 Mr N had a problem with a blocked sink. He contacted British Gas, who 
arranged for an engineer to come out. However, when he inspected the sink, he thought 
there was pre-existing damage, saying the sink was moving away from the worktop. Both the 
engineer and Mr Ns wife took photos of the sink. A second engineer attended the property 
the following day, to fix the [pre-existing] damage] to a waste piper under the sink the first 
engineer had reported. A subsequent visit cleared the blockage.
The first engineer reported his conclusion, with the photographs back to British Gas. Based 
on this, British Gas said they wouldnt cover the claim because the policy terms and 
conditions included an exclusion for pre-existing damage.
Mr N disputed the engineers version and challenged British Gass decline of his claim. He 
said there wasnt pre-existing damage  rather it was the engineer that caused the damage 
during the visit, when applying a plunger to the sink. He also questioned the authenticity of 
the engineers photographs, saying they were taken after the engineer had caused the 
damage. He also provided video footage taken at the time of the first engineers visit, which 
Mr N said showed the engineer making significant noise (and asking not to be filmed).
Unhappy at what had happened, and his claim being declined, Mr N complained to British 
Gas. But they didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said that, having 
reviewed the photographs and other evidence available, they had concluded the damage to 
the sink was pre-existing  not caused by the first engineer. As such, they confirmed their 
decision not to cover the claim under the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr N then complained to this service. He was unhappy at what had happened and 
disputed British Gass version of events, saying the damage to the sink wasnt pre-
existing and had been caused by the first engineer. And that he had photographs and 
evidence to show this. He wanted British Gas to accept his claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint, concluding British Gas didnt need to 
take any further action. From the evidence available, she thought there wasnt 
sufficient evidence to conclude the engineer had caused damage when they 
attended. She also thought the photographs taken by the engineer clearly showed 
pre-existing damage to the sink, as such this was excluded from cover under the 
terms and conditions of the policy. So, British Gas acted fairly in declining the claim.
  
Mr N disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said the damage wasnt pre-existing and the evidence he provided showed 
that. He said the engineer had damaged the kitchen (and destroyed evidence of the damage 
hed caused) and hadnt reported pre-existing damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here to decide whether British Gas has acted fairly towards Mr N.
The key issue in Mr Ns complaint is whether the damage to his sink was (as he says) 
caused by the first engineer who attended the property, or (as British Gas maintain) the 
damage was pre-existing and therefore wouldnt be covered under an exclusion in the policy 
terms and conditions.
In considering the issue, Ive thought carefully at the representations made by Mr N and by 
British Gas, as well as their exchanges during the course of the complaint. Ive also looked 
at the photographs and video footage provided by both parties. Its clear the two parties 
strongly disagree about what happened, what the photographs and other evidence show and 
what conclusions should be drawn. My role, on the balance of probabilities, is to decide what 
I think is the more likely and persuasive case. On balance, Im not persuaded the evidence 
supports the conclusion the damage was caused by the first engineer, and that it is more 
likely to have been pre-existing. 
I know this will be disappointing to Mr N, so Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
Ive looked carefully at the photographs provided by both Mr N and British Gas. I think those 
from the engineer do indicate damage to the sink (coming away from the worktop and leaks 
from the wastepipe under the sink). Mr N says the photographs taken by the engineer were 
after the damage he caused, as there is no water in the sink (being blocked). But British Gas 
say standard practice would be for the engineer to take out the excess water in the sink 
before working on the blockage. This seems reasonable and Im persuaded its likely to have 
been the case.
Ive also looked at the video footage provided by Mr N. It shows the engineer working on the 
sink, which is likely to have involved some noise, but doesnt show damage being caused. 
Taking these points together, Ive concluded the evidence doesnt support the conclusion the 
damage was caused by the first engineer, and that it is more likely to have been pre-existing.
Having reached this conclusion, Ive looked at the policy exclusion used by British Gas to 
decline Mr Ns claim. They refer to the Getting access and making good section of the policy, 
which includes the following:
We wont be responsible for repairing any pre-existing damage, nor will we replace 
or restore the original surface or coverings, for example, tiles, floor coverings, 
decoration, grass or plants.
I think this makes it clear that any pre-existing damage wont be repaired under the policy. 
As Ive concluded, on balance, the damage to the sink was pre-existing (not caused by the 
first engineer) then Ive concluded British Gas acted reasonably in applying the exclusion to 
decline the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman