DRN-1298009
 
The complaint
Mr E complains about how TSB Bank plc dealt with his request for a new account card and 
PIN following fraud on his account.
What happened
Mr E reported fraud on his account on 11 September 2019 and on 16 September 2019 
called TSB about his new account card. The replacement card hadn't been ordered and TSB 
paid £25 compensation for this and £25 for Mr E's call costs which he accepted. Mr E says 
he asked for the new card to be sent to a branch due to security concerns following the fraud 
and called TSB again about this on 20 and 21 September 2019 but was given incorrect 
advice and that the card was sent to his home address and not the branch. He says he 
called TSB again about this on 23 September and would like further compensation and his 
call costs for what took place after his initial complaint was dealt with.
TSB says it resolved the first complaint by paying compensation of £50 which included £25 
for Mr E's call costs. It accepts the card and PIN were sent to Mr E's home address but this 
had no real impact as he did receive both. TSB says this doesn't justify further 
compensation.
Mr E had brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it and recommended TSB 
pay £50 compensation. The investigator thought it clear that Mr E wanted his card sent to a 
different location to that of the PIN and explained why. And spent some time calling TSB 
about this and was given incorrect information by it. The investigator thought Mr E was 
caused inconvenience and distress.
TSB doesn't accept that view and says further compensation is not justified here.
Mr E accepts the investigator's view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I've come to the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator and for the same reasons.
I can see that TSB dealt with the first complaint to Mr E by paying compensation which he 
accepted. I'm satisfied that Mr E explained why he wanted the PIN and replacement account 
card sent to his home and branch respectively for security reasons as I think he was 
concerned about the possibility of further fraud. If TSB couldn't have complied with that 
request then I would have expected it to have told Mr E that and correctly managed his 
expectations.
I find that TSB agreed to the arrangement but didn't keep to it. I also accept that Mr E made 
further calls to TSB about this and during one call was given incorrect information. I have no 
doubt Mr E would have spent some time speaking to TSB and would have been caused inconvenience and some distress to find out that TSB hadn't done what it said it would on 
what ought to have been a straightforward matter. So I don't agree with TSB that these 
events had no real impact on Mr E as he did receive the account card and PIN. 
I'm satisfied that as a result of what took place Mr E closed his TSB account and would have 
incurred call charges in finding out what had happened and why. So I think the fairest 
approach here is that TSB ought to compensate Mr E for that and for the distress and 
inconvenience he was caused. I'm satisfied that the compensation recommended by the 
investigator is fair and reasonable and takes into account the likely call charges. I accept that 
TSB's actions didn't cause Mr E any financial loss in addition to the call costs and that the 
award reflects mainly the time and inconvenience he was caused by TSB's mistakes.
Putting things right
For those reasons I'm satisfied the award of £50 compensation is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order TSB Bank plc to pay Mr E £50 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman