DRN-4305788
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Nationwide Building Society unfairly declined to port their 
mortgage. Mrs H has dealt with the complaint throughout. She asks that Nationwide agrees 
to port her mortgage product.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 2003, with further borrowing in 2007. 
They separated and Mrs H remained in the property. Mrs H is self-employed and says the 
Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown caused financial problems. She wants to move to a 
different area with better schools and work opportunities, downsize and use the equity to pay 
off debts and reduce the mortgage. 
Mr H is supportive of this and willing to stay on the mortgage account. Mr and Mrs H have 
both told us that the intention is that Mrs H will pay the mortgage.
Mrs H asks that Nationwide takes into account her protected characteristics and the effect 
that the lockdowns had on her. Shes worried about the cost of maintaining the current 
property, becoming homeless if shes unable to port and the effect of the stress on her 
health, as it could cause a recurrence of her serious health condition.
Our investigator said while Nationwide had concerns about affordability, this wasnt the only 
reason it declined the porting application. Mrs H wanted to move to a less expensive 
property without significantly reducing the interest only balance, which she plans to repay by 
selling the property. Our investigator said the change in loan to value meant the application 
was outside Nationwides criteria and it wasnt unfair for it to decline to lend. 
Mrs H said Nationwide hadnt mention the loan to value being a problem, and said thered 
been a misunderstanding about the value of the new property. She said the investigator 
hadnt taken into account additional income from a job she recently started or that she 
intends to repay £15,000 of her mortgage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H doesnt have an interest rate product with an early repayment charge. Her concern is 
that she wont be able to get a new mortgage. So shell only be able to move home if 
Nationwide agrees to port her mortgage. 
Mrs H told us how very upsetting shes found this whole matter. Im very sorry for how shes 
been affected by this and understand how important it is for the matter to be resolved. Mrs H 
said the complaint should be expanded beyond her original complaint about the mortgage 
application. While I understand Mrs Hs frustration, our rules dont allow us to expand 
complaints. 
I must be clear that Im looking into Mrs Hs complaint that Nationwide didnt consider her 
porting application fairly in early 2023. 
Nationwide provided notes of the application. These record that Mrs H was selling her 
property for £305,000. The value of the property she wanted to buy was £210,000. Mrs H 
wanted to port an amount similar to her balance of about £182,000 (on an interest only 
basis) and pay a deposit of £27,000. 
The application didnt meet Nationwides lending criteria due to affordability and the loan to 
value ratio. It didnt meet criteria for an interest only mortgage as there was no credible 
repayment strategy other than the sale of the property. The application failed to pass 
Nationwides risk threshold.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H already had a mortgage, and Mrs H was making the 
payments. And part of the reason Mrs H wanted to move was to downsize, repay unsecured 
debts and reduce the mortgage balance  thereby reducing pressure on her finances. 
I should explain here that rules on mortgage regulation require lenders to carry out strict 
affordability assessments before offering or varying a mortgage. Where the mortgage is 
interest only this includes checking theres a credible strategy to repay the mortgage. The 
sale of the property isnt usually considered a credible repayment strategy unless theres 
enough equity to buy another property.
There are limited exceptions to this. Nationwide could port Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage despite 
concerns about affordability or repayment strategy if this is in their best interests. Id expect it 
to take Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances and their reasons for wanting to port into account. 
Mrs H says:
she wants to move to a cheaper property so that she can use the equity to repay 
unsecured debts and about £15,000 to reduce her mortgage balance. This will reduce 
her monthly outgoings. She wants to take out a fixed interest rate product, but cant do 
so until shes ported as she doesnt want to risk paying an ERC.
she wants to move to a home in a pleasant area near good schools and better job 
prospects. The property she found would have been better laid out for her to do her self-
employed work from home. 
she didnt think shed be able to get a mortgage elsewhere. 
she says shed paid the mortgage herself since 2017 and intends this to continue.
she expects her financial situation to improve before the mortgage term expires. She 
says she could re-mortgage or sell the property at the end of the term. She hopes to 
make overpayments.
shes taken two employed positions from mid-2023, in addition to her self-employed 
work.
I think Nationwide did consider whether porting was in Mrs Hs best interests, despite its 
concerns about affordability. Although Mr H was named on the mortgage account their 
intention was that Mrs H would make all of the payments. Nationwide was concerned that 
with Mrs Hs stated income shed struggle to maintain mortgage payments and this could 
result in financial difficulties, and potentially put her in a worse financial position. 
I think this concern was reasonable, based on the information Nationwide had. Mrs H would have less equity in the property after porting. The mortgage is interest only, so any missed or 
underpayments would result in the balance increasing. A change in property prices could 
leave her in negative equity. While Mrs H expects her financial position to improve, I dont 
think in fairness Nationwide could reasonably have relied on this happening when assessing 
the application in early 2023. 
Mrs H says Nationwides application records are wrong, or out of date. She says the 
property value is £250,000 and she intends to repay £15,000 off her mortgage. I appreciate 
Mrs Hs frustration about this, but I dont think the outcome would be different. I dont think 
the application would have met Nationwides criteria for an interest only mortgage. And 
Nationwide would have had the same concerns about affordability and whether porting was 
in Mrs Hs best interests. 
Mrs H says Nationwide has a duty of care as shes a single mother and its discriminatory to 
treat her differently to an employed person. She says the Government offered different levels 
of support to the self-employed, than that given to employed people. Ultimately though, I 
think its unlikely the outcome to Mrs Hs application would have been different if her income 
was from employment: the mortgage payments would still be unaffordable.
I must, in fairness, take Nationwides position into account. It has a loan of about £182,000 
secured on a property worth more than £300,000. Mr and Mrs Hs porting application asked 
it to loan them £182,000 secured on a property worth £210,000. This is a significant change 
in the risk for Nationwide  ultimately that it would be able to recover the debt by taking 
possession and selling the property. And this was in addition to its concerns about 
affordability, which increase the risk of this happening.
Overall, I dont think it was unfair for Nationwide to decline Mr and Mrs Hs porting 
application. 
Mrs H says Nationwide has discriminated against her. She says she has protected 
characteristics (being female and having a disability due to being unwell in the past) and 
women are affected more significantly than men when relationships break up. She says this 
is exacerbated by being self-employed and a single parent. I can understand Mrs Hs 
strength of feeling, given the problems shes experienced, and why she feels Nationwide 
should have done more to take her situation into account. Whether she has experienced 
discrimination contrary to the Equality Act is ultimately a matter for the courts to decide  but 
Ive taken the law into account in considering this complaint. And having looked at all the 
evidence, and taken everything  including relevant law  into account, I dont think 
Nationwide has treated Mrs H unfairly or acted unreasonably when considering the porting 
application. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman