DRN-4245108
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Studio Retail Limited (Studio) acted irresponsibly when it 
provided her with a catalogue shopping account in 2011. 
What happened
Mrs B opened a catalogue shopping account with Studio in 2011. Between then and 2016 
Mrs Bs account limit was increased several times. Mrs B has said that at the time the 
account was opened she already had existing forms of credit she was struggling to maintain. 
She says she was on a low income, relying on benefits with a young family and that the 
account was never affordable for her. She believes Studio was wrong to provide the account 
in the first instance and that it failed to adequately consider her existing debt obligations 
each time it increased her credit limit. 
She has asked that it refund all interest and charges added since the account was opened 
and buy the outstanding balance back from the debt management company it is currently 
with. She also wants all negative markers linked to the account removed from her credit file. 
Studio has said that due to the passage of time it no longer has evidence of the checks that 
it carried out when assessing Mrs Bs credit worthiness in 2011. It has said that it is sure 
affordability checks wouldve been completed at the time of each credit increase but its 
unable to evidence these. However, it has noted that while there were times Mrs B was late 
making payments the account was generally well managed during 2011-2016 and that she 
rarely utilised the full limit available to her. So, it didnt think that it had acted inappropriately 
in providing her with the account or the various limit increases. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs Bs complaint already. He found that due to the 
passage of time there was limited information for him to review, both in regard to Mrs Bs 
personal finances when the account was opened, or the checks run by Studio at that time 
and during the subsequent limit increases. However, despite that, he did think it seemed 
more likely than not that the account was initially affordable for Mrs B. But he said that 
Studio shouldnt have provided the credit limit increase in December 2015 and so he asked 
the business to rework the account as though that limit increase had never taken place. 
Studio accepted the investigators proposal, but Mrs B didnt. She said that the account was 
never affordable and noted that shes had other complaints about different forms of credit 
she was given around the same time frame upheld. So she asked that an ombudsman 
review her complaint and so its been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator and think that Studio 
do need to rework the account as though the limit never exceeded £1,190. I know this will 
disappoint Mrs B and so Id like to explain my reasons for reaching this outcome. 
There is limited information available to review from the time the account was opened. This 
is not unusual at all, especially given that took place 12 years ago. Mrs B has gone to a lot of 
trouble to try to provide evidence of her circumstances at the time and Id like to thank for her 
detailed testimony. 
However, in order for me to uphold the complaint I would need to be able to say that the 
checks run by Studio, both when the account was opened and for the subsequent limit 
increases, were insufficient. And in order to do that Id need to know what those checks were 
and what they showed. 
There is no obligation on lenders to look at specific information like bank statements or pay 
slips to verify income. Most lenders will start with basic checks around income and 
expenditure and credit file scores. In some instances, these basic checks will be enough for 
the lender to be satisfied that the credit theyre providing will be affordable and repayments 
sustainable. Sometimes these checks will result in additional questions and the business 
may ask for more information, such as statements etc. 
Because I dont know what checks were run, or what information was given to Studio at the 
time Mrs B applied for her account, I dont know if those checks showed anything that would 
indicate Mrs B might struggle to manage her account. I know Mrs B believes that because 
Studio is unable to provide this information I should assume that the account wasnt 
affordable and uphold her complaint. But, given the passage of time and the fact that we 
dont expect businesses to keep records for 12 years or more, that wouldnt be a reasonable 
standard to apply here. 
Instead, all I can do is look at the type of credit that was applied for and the likely opening 
limit, which is this case appears to have been £1,000 or less. And Ive not seen anything that 
indicates Mrs B would struggle with this. 
Mrs B has explained that she had other credit obligations elsewhere and had taken out a 
number of high-cost credit personal loans in the months prior to opening the account. 
However, these appear to have been maintained and the existence of other forms of credit 
doesnt in and of itself prove that a new form of credit would likely be unmanageable. So, 
although I accept that Mrs B was borrowing elsewhere at the time, I can rely on this alone to 
prove that the lending decision made by Studio in 2011 was irresponsible. 
Mrs B has also indicated that some of the income she received into her bank account at the 
time were from benefits and not personal income she couldve relied on for direct use. 
However, its unclear how Studio reviewed this and whether or not it was declared as income 
or whether it was explained to the business that these benefits were fixed for specific things 
like rent. So I cant conclude that Studio relied on it incorrectly or that it was unreasonable for 
it to review it as disposable income. 
Mrs B has said that during the life span of the account Studio increased her limit on a 
number of occasions and that these increases were all unaffordable. Again, due to the 
passage of time its unclear when these limit increases took place and how much the limit 
was extended by each time. She has said that she missed payments between 2013 and 
2017 and that limit increases took place despite these missed payments. Mrs B has said the 
missed payments are evidence that the limit increases were inappropriate.
Studio has agreed that the lending decision in December 2015, when Mrs Bs limit increased 
from £1,190 to £1,400 was likely unaffordable for Mrs B and has agreed to rework the 
account from that time. 
This feels reasonable to me having reviewed all of the information that Mrs B and Studio has provided. I know Mrs B thinks the account was unaffordable prior to this date, but without 
more concrete evidence to consider Im unable to point to an earlier time when the account 
should be reworked from. So, I think the investigators suggestion to rework the account from 
this point in time is a reasonable one. 
Mrs B has said shes had other complaints, against different credit providers dated around 
the same time upheld and so she understandably questions why this complaint hasnt also 
been upheld in full. I do want to clarify that this account is very different from a credit card 
account or a personal loan where funds can be spent freely. This was a catalogue shopping 
account and so the only thing that Mrs B could spend the funds on was restricted to the 
specific products offered by Studio. That does impact how we view complaints of this nature 
and makes it different from complaints about loans where credit providers are effectively 
giving cash to consumers. 
Therefore, having reviewed everything on file, and having read all of Mrs B detailed 
submissions, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator and uphold Mrs Bs 
complaint from December 2015. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right Studio Retail Limited should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges, and insurances (not already
refunded) that have been applied to balances above £1190.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to you along with 8%
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of
settlement. Studio should also remove all adverse information recorded after 
December 2015 regarding this account from your credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £1190, Studio should
arrange an affordable repayment plan with you for the remaining amount. Once you 
have cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 
December 2015 in relation to the account should be removed from their credit file.
If Studio have sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the 
debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is 
carried out promptly.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio Retail Limited to deduct tax from any award of 
interest. It must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she 
asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so 
after deducting the tax.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partially uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Studio Retail 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Karen HanlonOmbudsman