DRN-3137057
The complaint
Mr R has complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim against his 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R was in an accident when he reversed his van into a motorcyclist (the third party). Mr R 
told Ageas about the accident but didn't make any claim himself. Ageas told Mr R he would 
be held liable for the incident. It later paid the third partys claim.
Mr R didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. She didn't think Ageas had done anything wrong. Mr R didn't agree so his 
complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
While pursuing his complaint with Ageas Mr R's made a number of points. I've considered 
everything on file carefully. But in this decision I don't intend to address each and every point 
raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key points following our investigator's 
assessment of the complaint.
Mr R reported the accident to Ageas. He told it he was reversing his van when it happened. 
He said he didn't see the third party in his mirrors as he was in his blind spot. Ageas told 
Mr R that as he was the one reversing he would be held liable for the accident. Mr R replied 
alright. And on that basis Ageas accepted liability for the accident. 
Mr Rs since said that he has a hearing problem together with learning difficulties and didn't 
realise at the time he was accepting liability for the accident. He said he had no intention to 
do so. But given the circumstances of the incident, I don't think it makes a great deal of 
difference to the outcome whether Mr R accepted liability or not. 
I should say that its not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident. And, like all motor 
policies, Mr Rs policy allows Ageas to settle claims as it sees fit. That means it doesnt 
require Mr Rs consent to decide how to settle a claim and it may make a decision that he 
doesnt agree with. But Ill look to see whether or not its done so reasonably.
Theres no dispute that the accident happened while Mr R was reversing. He thinks it wasn't 
his fault because the third party was in his blind spot. However, as I understand it, all 
insurance companies I'm aware of will say its the responsibility of the driver reversing to 
make sure the way is clear. The Highway Code reinforces this and says that, when reversing 
the driver should check any blind spots. And I think that means Mr R would be held liable  
that is at fault  regardless of whether the third party was in his blind spot or not. So, even if 
Mr R had clearly disputed liability from the outset, Ageas would have always held him at fault 
for the accident. It follows that I don't think that any misunderstanding about whether or not 
Mr R accepted liability for the incident initially affected the outcome. 
Similarly, Mr Rs said that Ageas didn't send anyone to inspect the damage to his van. Mr R 
says this would have shown that the third party was in his blind spot. But as Ive said above, 
whether or not the third party was in Mr Rs blind spot doesn't change the fact that, as the 
driver who was reversing at the time, its Mr Rs responsibility to make sure the way was 
clear. And as it wasn't Mr R would be held liable for the accident. So I dont think Ageas 
needed to inspect Mr Rs van in order to settle the claim fairly.
Mr R also said that after the accident the third party drove away without swapping details. 
Mr R thinks that action was unlawful and affects the third partys claim. But the events that 
took place after the incident don't affect who was to blame for it. So, whether or not the third 
party drove away without giving Mr R his details doesn't change who was at fault for the 
accident. That would still be Mr R.
Mr R said he asked Ageas to involve the police. But Ageas had no reason to do that. As its 
explained to Mr R, its only responsible for dealing with the claim. And if Mr R wished to 
report the third party for what he considers to be a breach of road traffic law that is a matter 
for him alone to deal with.
Mr R added that the third party wouldn't have made a claim if he hadn't sought him out. Only 
the third party knows what his intentions would have been had Mr R not gone and found him. 
And Mr R said that the third party had taken pictures of his van  no doubt to capture the 
registration number  which would allow the third party to make a claim. But, whatever his 
intentions were the fact remains that the third party did make a claim, which Ageas, as 
Mr Rs insurer, had to deal with. Ageas isn't responsible for the third partys actions after the 
accident. Its role was to decide a fair way to deal with the claim. That meant deciding who 
was most likely at fault for the accident and then settling the claim on the best possible terms 
it could. Thats what it did and I think it did so reasonably. 
Mr Rs also disputed that the third party was injured or that the extent of his injuries 
warranted the compensation Ageas paid. He said he saw the third party in the days and 
weeks after the accident riding his motorbike. Mr Rs added that if the third partys injury 
claim was genuine then he would have pursued that sooner, rather than it taking him several 
months to do so. But the fact that Mr R saw the third party continuing to go about daily 
activities doesn't mean that the third party wasn't injured or had exaggerated his injuries. 
Mr R simply can't know to what extent the third party was injured or how those injuries were 
affecting him simply by seeing him riding his bike. 
Further, Ageas has experience of dealing with such cases. It will know that courts regularly 
award compensation to victims of accidents that have happened at low speed and where the 
claimants did not immediately report injuries at the scene but complained of those later. And, 
claimants have up to three years in which to submit an injury claim. So any delay in the claim 
process doesn't mean that its not genuine. And, if the matter had gone to court there was 
always the chance that the claim couldve cost Ageas significantly more than it settled it for. 
So, in those circumstances I think it was reasonable for Ageas to settle the claim as it did.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman