DRN-2544636
The complaint
Mrs P complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, wasnt 
of satisfactory quality. Mrs Ps husband is also involved with her complaint.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mrs P under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Finance that she signed in September 2017. The car was recovered to a manufacturers 
dealer in July 2018 because of issues with the gearbox but no fault with the gearbox was 
found. The cars mileage at that time as 10,001. Mrs P complained to a manufacturers 
dealer about issues with the gearbox when the car was serviced in October 2018 and the 
gearboxs software was reset. 
She complained to another manufacturers dealer about continuing gearbox issues in March 
2020 and returned the car to a manufacturers dealer in September 2020 and again 
complained about gearbox issues. A gearbox issue was identified and a new gearbox valve 
body was fitted but Mrs P says that there are still issues with the cars gearbox so she 
complained to Mercedes-Benz Finance and said that she wanted to reject the car. It didnt 
uphold her complaint so she complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. He thought that it was 
more likely than not the issues were either present or developing when the car was 
recovered to the manufacturers dealer in September 2017 and that, on the balance of 
probabilities, the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs P as it wasnt 
reasonably durable. He recommended that Mercedes-Benz Finance should: collect the car; 
cancel the agreement: refund Mrs Ps deposit (with interest); record the agreement as 
settled on Mrs Ps credit file; refund 10% of the instalments made on the car since October 
2018; and pay £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs P.
Mercedes-Benz Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
has responded in detail and has explained why it doesnt believe that its reasonable to 
assume that theres an issue with the car (so doesnt agree that Mrs P has the right to reject 
it) and why it doesnt agree that Mrs P should receive a refund of the deposit that she paid 
for the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mercedes-Benz Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that 
it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs P - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car that was supplied to Mrs P was a new car with a price of £70,887.17 and I 
consider that it was reasonable for her to expect that it would be free from even 
minor defects;
Mercedes-Benz Finance says that the car was recovered to a manufacturers dealer 
in July 2018 because of gearbox issues but no fault was found;
Mrs P complained about continuing gearbox when the car was serviced in October 
2018 and Mercedes-Benz Finance says that SCN coding to the gearbox ECU was 
carried out;
Mrs P complained again about gearbox issues in March and September 2020  and 
in September 2020 an issue was identified so a new gearbox valve body was fitted  
the cars mileage at that time was recorded as 22,685;
Mrs P says that there are still issues with the cars gearbox so she wants to reject the 
car;
she first complained about gearbox issues about nine months after the car was 
supplied to her and in that time shed been able to drive about 10,000 miles in the car 
 she continued to complain about gearbox issues and the gearboxs software was 
reset in October 2018 and a new gearbox valve body was fitted in September 2020;
I consider it to be more likely than not that there has been a gearbox issue with the 
car since July 2018, or earlier, and I dont consider it to be reasonable to expect a 
new car that cost £70,887.17 to have ongoing gearbox issues  so I consider it to be 
more likely than not that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
Mrs P; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mrs P to reject 
the car and for Mercedes-Benz Finance to take the actions set out below.
Putting things right
I find that Mercedes-Benz Finance should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for 
the car to be collected from Mrs P  both at no cost to her. I find that it should also record the 
agreement as settled on Mrs Ps credit file.
The agreement shows that Mrs P paid a deposit of £17,713.16 for the car. Its clear that 
Mercedes-Benz Finance feels strongly that it shouldnt be required to refund the full amount 
of that deposit and I have carefully considered the explanation that it has given. But in 
circumstances such as these, its not practicable to put Mrs P in the position that she would 
have been in had the agreement been properly performed - so I consider that the 
appropriate remedy is to put her back in the position that she would have been in had she 
not entered into the agreement (with her paying for the use that she had from the car). That 
includes refunding the deposit that she paid for the car so that, if she chooses to do so, she 
can use it for a deposit on a replacement car.
For those reasons I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to 
refund to Mrs P the deposit that she paid for the car, with interest. Mrs P has been able to 
use the car but her use and enjoyment of it will have been affected by the issues with the 
gearbox. I agree with our investigators recommendation that it would be fair and reasonable 
for Mercedes-Benz Finance to refund to Mrs P 10% of the monthly payments that shes 
made under the agreement since October 2018, when the first work to deal with the issues was carried out. As Mrs P has been able to use the car, Im not persuaded that it would be 
fair or reasonable for me to require Mercedes-Benz Finance to refund a larger proportion of 
her monthly payments or to refund to her any of the monthly payments for the period prior to 
October 2018. I consider that its fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to keep 
those amounts as payment for the use that Mrs P has had from the car.
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mrs P. I find that it would 
also be fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to pay her £300 to compensate her 
for that distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Ps complaint and I order Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mrs P  both at no cost to her.
2. Refund to Mrs P the deposit that she paid for the car.
3. Pay interest on the deposit at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
4. Refund to Mrs P 10% of the monthly payments that shes made under the 
agreement since the gearboxs software was reset in October 2018 to 
compensate her for her loss of use and enjoyment of the car.
5. Record the agreement as settled on Mrs Ps credit file.
6. Pay £300 to Mrs P to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that 
shes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Mercedes-Benz Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 3 above. Mercedes-Benz Finance must give Mrs P a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman