DRN-3189296
The complaint
Ms Ks unhappy with how Renault Retail Group UK Limited sold and arranged for the set up 
of her guaranteed asset protection (GAP) insurance policy.
Ms K says Renaults actions directly led to the decline of her claim by the GAP insurance 
provider.
All references in this decision to Renault include its appointed agents.
What happened
In 2017, Ms K placed an order for a new vehicle at a Renault showroom. On the same day, 
Renault sold Ms K finance and some additional products including a GAP insurance policy.
A few months later, Ms K returned to the showroom to collect her vehicle. Both she and the 
sales person signed and dated several items of paperwork only to find that there were 
problems with the car finance Renault was arranging. These problems meant she couldnt 
collect the car that day. The finance issue was resolved two days later which is when the 
handover took place.
In 2020, Ms K was involved in a road traffic accident and contacted the GAP insurer to make 
a claim. The insurer declined the claim on the grounds that the policy had ended two days 
before the accident occurred. 
Ms K queried this with Renault on the basis that shed noticed it had arranged for the policy 
to start on the intended handover date and hadnt amended the start date when the 
handover was delayed. Had Renault done so, the GAP policy would still have been live 
when the accident occurred and the insurer would have considered her claim. 
Renault contacted the insurer for it to retrospectively amend the start date but without 
success. When Renault confirmed that it was unwilling to help Ms K any further, she 
complained to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended that it should be upheld. They 
felt Renault had erred in not amending the start date of the policy at the time of the handover 
and that, if it hadnt erred, Ms Ks claim would have been considered. The investigator asked 
Renault to pay the claim and pay her £100 as compensation for the trouble and upset it had 
caused her.  
 
As Renault didnt reply to the investigator despite several chasers, the complaint was passed 
to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I think the starting point is to carefully consider what happened both when the policy was 
sold and when the handover took place. 
The paperwork from the initial sale indicates Ms K agreed to take out the policy. Theres no 
dispute as to the date of sale of the GAP cover. 
As the sales person confirmed in writing in August 2021:
 it is Renault Retail Groups policy not to release a car until the finance agreement 
has been paid out, this can take up to an hour.

We then had an issue with [the finance company], they set up the battery rental but 
they didnt pay out for the car and we could not release it. [Ms K] came back in [two 
days later] to collect her [car], we had to resubmit this finance application and wait for 
it to be approved then they paid us and we released the car [that day].    
The copy finance agreement supports the sales persons account of what happened, with 
the dates of signature corresponding with their testimony.
But the certificate of insurance shows that the cover started on the same day as the car was 
originally intended to be handed over and not the actual date of handover. So, the start date 
wasnt amended as it should have been and the policy ended two days sooner than it should 
have. 
This might have seemed a minor error at the time and, in different circumstances, might not 
have led to any meaningful loss for the insured. But it had disastrous results for Ms K given 
she was involved in an accident on what should have been the very last day of GAP cover. 
Im satisfied that, if Renault had set up the policy with the insurer correctly, Ms Ks claim 
would have been considered  and perhaps even paid  by the insurer. Shes been denied 
the opportunity to make a claim. And it seems fair to me that Renault should effectively step 
into the shoes of the insurer and deal with her claim  or arrange for it to be dealt with  in 
the absence of the insurer.
Im also satisfied that, regardless of the outcome of her claim, Ms Ks been needlessly put 
through additional inconvenience at what was already a difficult time for her given the 
accident that occurred and resulting damage to her car.  
Further, Renaults responses to Ms K havent always been helpful or even accurate. For 
example, in its email to Ms K of July 2021, she was told the issue was with the insurer and 
that, as the paperwork was signed on the original handover date, that was the date the 
policy came into effect. As Ive explained, the finance agreement wasnt signed on the 
original handover date  it was signed two days later.  
Overall, I believe Renault should pay Ms K £100 as compensation for the upset and 
inconvenience its caused her.
Putting things right
I require Renault to:Assess the claim, or arrange for it to be assessed, as though the policy had been 
set up to start on actual handover date and in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy; and 
Pay Ms K £100 for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused as a result 
of its error.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. I require Renault Retail Group UK Limited to 
put things right for Ms K as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman