DRN-4257770
The complaint
S complains AXA Insurance UK Plcs didnt deal with its subsidence claim effectively. 
S is a partnership. Its been represented for the claim and complaint. For simplicity Ive 
referred to the representatives actions as being its own. Similarly I've referred to the actions 
of AXAs representatives and agents as being its own. 
What happened
In 2004 S made a claim for subsidence damage to its property. AXA accepted the claim and 
completed repairs the following year. In 2016 S noticed further cracking. It made a further 
claim to AXA. In 2017 AXA rejected the claim by referencing made-up ground, defective 
design and pre-inception damage exclusions in S policy.   
Between 2017 and 2021 S property underwent subsidence monitoring and assessment 
funded by its insurance broker. After receiving the final report S complained to AXA about its 
refusal to deal with the subsidence. 
S feels the 2004 claim was never properly concluded. It says AXA accepted the claim and 
undertook rectification work which didnt resolve the underlying cause of the subsidence. So 
S feels the damaged reported in 2016 is a continuation of the 2004 claim - rather than a 
fresh and separate claim.
AXA responded in August 2022. It stated the cause of subsidence was either made-up 
ground or a defective design of the property. It maintained that the relevant policy exclusions 
would apply. AXA didnt accept the ongoing movement should be considered as part of the 
2005 claim. It said the limited information it still retained about the claim, showed that it was 
a low value claim for minor damage (with costs of less than £2,000). It said that claim didnt 
appear to have involved any ground investigations that might have brought its attention to 
the cause of the current movement. 
In November 2022 S came to this service. It said its complaint is the investigations and 
remedial works for the initial claim (2004) werent sufficient, so the loss claimed for now (in 
2016) is a continuation and so should be accepted by AXA. S made a few additional points. 
It said AXA didnt raise defective design issues in 2005. And, had it done so, there may have 
been an opportunity for recourse against the original property designer. Finally it says AXA 
has waived its rights to, or cant fairly rely on, any policy exclusion by virtue of its handling of 
the initial claim.   
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded the 2005 repairs were inadequate and the cause of the 
current damage. She felt the repairs carried out under that initial claim were effective and 
lasting. She also felt it was fair for AXA to rely on the made-up ground exclusion. So she 
didnt recommend it do anything differently. S didnt accept that, so the complaint was 
passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional jurisdiction decision. It explained I intended to find the complaint had 
been made outside of time limits this service operates under. I explained that meant this 
service wouldnt have the power to consider it unless AXA gave its consent. AXA responded 
by providing permission for the complaint to be considered out of time. So I issued a further 
decision confirming this service would be looking at the merits of S complaint.  
I then issued a provisional decision outlining my thoughts on the merits of S complaint. As 
its reasoning forms part of this provisional decision Ive copied it in below. In it I explain why I 
didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I invited S and AXA to provide any comments or 
evidence they would like me to consider before issuing this final decision. However, neither 
submitted anything.
What Ive provisionally decided and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to 
uphold it. 
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence S and AXA have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be 
key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered 
everything provided.
The policy excludes damage caused by or consisting of the settlement or movement 
of made up ground or defective design or workmanship or the use of defective 
materials. As set out above S feels its unfair for AXA to rely on defective design and 
made-up ground exclusions. So Ive first considered the application of the exclusions 
to the current claim for damage.
Ive considered the key evidence for the cause of subsidence. It seems to be 
accepted the property is built on around four to six metres of made ground - over an 
old railway cutting with infill materials used to fill the void.
A 2016 structural engineers report found ongoing ground movements are almost 
certainly taking place. In addition it says the buildings raft foundations are unable to 
accommodate differential ground movement between parts of the building. 
A 2019 report, also from a structural engineer, says movement to date is almost 
certainly the result of consolidation to soft clay used to backfill the cutting. It found 
movements recorded in level monitoring to be consistent with progressive 
consolidation of a layer of soft soil and variable thickness under the property. It does 
note movement may have been exacerbated by external influences such as a large 
tree or drain leakage. 
A 2021 structural report refers to an earlier site investigation. That found six and a 
half metres of deep fill material to be mostly clay. Its quoted as finding the upper 
layers to be well compacted, but deeper layers being softer and more variable. The 
report concludes differential settlement of the foundation is inevitable with such a 
variable depth of fill. 
Having considered the available evidence it seems reasonable for AXA to say the 
damage being claimed for has been caused by, or consists of, settlement or 
movement of made-up ground. And this is excluded under the policy. The evidence 
for defective design is less clear cut. I havent made a finding on that aspect as the 
application of one exclusion is enough for AXA to decline claim.   However, S complaint is that, even if the cause of damage is made-up ground, its 
not fair for AXA to rely on the exclusion (nor the faulty design exclusion). It feels the 
2005 repairs were inadequate and it ought to have been obvious to AXA at the time 
that further movement was inevitable without a substantial repair scheme being 
adopted. 
S has said its engineers have noted the variable depth and constitution of poorly 
compacted fill material under the property  and the influence of nearby trees. It says 
they are of the opinion that this means differential settlement was inevitable, so a 
piled solution was the appropriate claim resolution in 2005.   Based on this it says 
this current claim is really a continuation of one that wasnt adequately settled in 
2005. In addition it says as AXA didnt rely on either exclusion in 2004 it cant fairly 
do so now. 
In response AXA said there is, given the passage of time, only limited information 
available for the 2004 claim. The settlement for repairs was a little under £2,000, with 
investigation fees nominal. AXA says this indicates the claim involved only minor 
damage. It says as there were no ground investigations there was no way of it 
becoming aware of the now understood cause of movement. Finally it doesnt accept, 
not applying the exclusions in 2004, means it cant rely on them now. 
The most informative evidence, Ive seen, for the 2004 claim is a report from AXAs 
loss adjuster (Ill call them G) dated May 2004. This references a 1998 subsidence 
claim for the property. That was against a different insurer - although it featured the 
same loss adjuster (G) and engineering (Ill call them E) firms as the 2004 claim. The 
outcome of the 1998 claim was part underpinning of the buildings porch. This was 
considered necessary because of differential settlement.   
Gs 2004 report explains monitoring took place following S contacting E in 2002. 
Following that E prepared a schedule of works for repairs. The report says a 
recommendation was then made to refer to the matter to AXA  as S insurer at that 
point. Its not totally clear but it seems, from the report, that E and its investigation, 
including the monitoring and recommendations, were commissioned and arranged by 
S itself rather than AXA.  
In any event only minor or moderate cracking was identified by E and G for the 2004 
claim. Gs report says E hadnt been able to be specific about the cause. G rules out 
a direct link between the porch area (1998 claim) of damage and later damage to the 
main building relevant to the current (2004) claim. But it does say the cause is likely 
to have been slight deflection on the floor slab, resulting from differential settlement 
of the foundations. G says some thought has been given to possible root or drainage 
problems, but none have been identified as relevant. 
It seems AXA accepted, on Gs recommendation, Es Schedule of repair works. It 
then seems to have cash settled the claim with works undertaken by S own 
contractor. 
Based on what Ive seen of the circumstances of the 2004 claim Im not persuaded 
by S argument that the repairs were inadequate. Neither can I agree that it ought to 
have been obvious to AXA at the time that a substantial repair scheme was 
inevitable. 
The limited information points to AXA accepting the recommendations of the 
structural engineers that had investigated the damage. The engineer may even have 
been appointed by S. Regardless of that point I havent seen anything to indicate that the engineers at the time considered further movement inevitable without a piled 
solution or other significant works. Neither have I seen enough to persuade me that 
AXA should have undertaken further investigations. 
In additional there was a significant period between the 2004 claim and damage 
being reported for this latest claim  including a break in cover. Such an intervening 
period makes it difficult to find AXA responsible for damage that occurred after it 
settled the earlier claim. It doesnt support S argument that the repairs werent 
lasting and effective.    
For the above reasons I dont intend to require AXA to consider the 2016 claim as a 
continuation of the 2004 one. 
As I consider the two claims to be separate, Im not going to find, that because AXA 
didnt apply a made-up ground or settlement exclusion to the earlier claim, that it 
cant fairly rely on it now.
S has said AXA failed to set out the faulty design of foundations in 2004. It says that 
if it had it might have been possible for it to act against the builders or designers of 
the property. I havent seen anything to persuade me that AXA considered faulty 
design to be an issue during that earlier claim. So I cant say it acted unreasonably 
by not applying such an exclusion or raising the issue to S back then. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent been provided with any further evidence or arguments. So Ive no reason to come 
to a different outcome to that set out above. That means Im not going to uphold S 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman