DRN-1948179
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a store card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
AXA France IARD, the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale of such policies. To 
keep things simple, Ill therefore just be referring to AXA in this decision.
What happened
Mrs H took out the policy in a shop in October 1996.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of the application form that Mrs H completed at the time. There is a 
separate section for PPI. This gives a brief description of the policy and explains that it 
covers the card repayments in the event of sickness, accident, involuntary unemployment 
and loss of life and refers the applicant to further attached details. Within the section there is 
a box that could be ticked to request the policy  and the box has been ticked on Mrs Hs 
form. She could have left the box blank if she hadnt wanted PPI. Mrs H has then signed and 
dated the form at the bottom.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs Hs recollection of 
events has faded. Looking at the available evidence, I think that Mrs S would have known 
from the wording and layout of the form that the PPI was optional. Overall, it seems to me 
that she decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers 
doing so.
AXA didnt advise Mrs H to buy the PPI, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her needs. But 
it did need to provide her with enough information for her to be able to make an informed 
choice about whether or not the policy was right for her.
Mrs H wouldnt have received any sick pay from her job. And she didnt have any other 
means, such as savings, that she could fall back on. So I think that Mrs H had a need for the 
policy and could have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that AXA didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs H wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I consider she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused her to change her mind. So she is no worse off as a 
result of anything AXA may have done wrong. So theres nothing AXA needs to do to put 
things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman