DRN-2652904
The complaint
 Mr and Ms N have complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) failed to make it clear that they
had to redeclare their existing medical conditions (PEMCs), when TSB changed the travel
insurer on a fee-paying Premier packaged bank account.
Mr and Ms N have since discovered that theyve not been covered for Mr Ns pre-existing
medical conditions since February 2017.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 25 March 2021, and explained that I thought TSB had
not made it sufficiently clear to Mr and Ms N that they had to re-declare their PEMCs to the
new travel insurer. But I also thought that Mr and Ms N had not lost out as a result of this 
shortcoming. 
I reached this conclusion on the basis that had things gone as they shouldve, I thought Mr 
and Ms N were likely to have discovered that the new insurer would not cover Mr Ns 
PEMCs. And upon discovering this, I also thought it likely that Mr and Ms N wouldve 
downgraded their Premier account to a free account and sought cover elsewhere. However, 
had they done this, based on what they had told us, I thought that they wouldve ended up 
paying more for annual travel insurance elsewhere, than they actually did for the TSB 
Premier account. So I didnt think that Mr and Ms N had actually lost out. And as they had no 
claims declined as a result of the insurer being unaware of the PEMC, I didnt think Mr and 
Ms N had suffered a financial loss in this respect either.
TSB and Mr and Ms N responded, and both disagreed with my provisional decision.
In summary, Mr and Ms N said it was not fair that TSB were able to keep the money theyd 
paid for the Premier account under false pretences. They said theyd had no benefit of the 
Premier account travel cover since the travel insurer was changed. So said they should 
receive a full refund of the account fees. They also said that this could well have affected 
many other account holders too. 
Mr and Ms N also explained that they were shocked when they discovered that Mr N had not 
been insured for his condition (which was very serious and couldve resulted in a life-
threatening situation) for a number of years. Mr and Ms N explained that having to go 
through the complaints process had been exhausting and theyd been inconvenienced by it. 
They said they feel that an appropriate level of compensation would be the amount theyd 
paid for the Premier account since the travel insurer was changed.
Mr and Ms N also added that, had they known the new insurer wouldnt have covered Mr Ns 
PEMCs, they wouldve immediately cancelled the Premier account. But they said they would 
not have immediately sought to obtain separate travel cover for around six months as Ms N 
was having to care for her mother, who was suffering from a terminal illness at the time. 
Sadly, Ms Ns mother passed away in April 2017. They say they only had need for travel 
cover from around six months after the letter informing them of the change of insurer, as 
they went on holiday in July 2017.
In TSBs response, it said that the change of insurer letter explained that cover would 
continue as normal. And TSB said it was normal for consumers to declare any PEMCs to 
the insurer. TSB included a copy of the Platinum account terms and conditions from 2013 
and say that they explained to the consumer they had to declare their PEMCs to the insurer. 
It also said that it rarely sees a complaint where a consumer has presumed they didnt need 
to declare their PEMCs to a new insurer.
Having carefully considered the responses from both parties, I was minded to reach a 
slightly different outcome to the one I reached in my initial provisional decision. So I issued 
another provisional decision on 24 May 2021. I have included an extract of that provisional 
decision below.
Having considered TSBs response, I dont think what it has said is persuasive, and if 
anything, missing the point slightly.
What I mean by this is, that it says the letter explained the cover would continue as normal 
which it says meant the consumer still had to declare PEMCs. But the consumers had
already declared their conditions to the insurer, and had been accepted for cover. So they
didnt think the need to declare conditions applied to them again (as in their minds, theyd
already done so). They say the letter made them think this because it said any associated
upgrades held will be cancelled and immediately replaced with new cover underwritten by
[new insurer]. And for the reasons Ive already outlined, I dont think it was made sufficiently
clear that Mr and Ms N had to contact the new insurer to see if Mr Ns conditions would still
be covered. If anything, I thought the letter suggested the new insurer would cover the
previously declared PEMCs, and that the new insurer would then write to them once the
upgrade to cover the previously declared PEMCs was due to renew, to confirm if cover
would still be given upon renewal.
I also dont think TSBs reference to terms and condition from another account makes me
think that the need to re-declare PEMCs to the new insurer was made clear in this case
either.
Having considered Mr and Ms Ns responses, I now think that they did suffer a loss. 
Previously, I had said that had Mr and Ms N known in November 2016 that Mr Ns PEMCs
wouldnt have been covered, I was persuaded that they wouldve downgraded their Premier
account to a fee-free account and instead take out separate travel cover. However, I am now
persuaded that they would not have sought alternative cover immediately - given the
circumstances that Ms N and her late mother sadly experienced around the time. I note that
they had mentioned Ms Ns mother being ill previously and I have no reason to doubt what
they have said.So had things gone as they shouldve, I think its likely they wouldnt have paid for the 
Premier account, or alternative travel cover, between November 2016 and June 2017. So I 
currently think its fair that TSB refund Mr and Ms N the account fees they paid for the 
Premier account between November 2016 and June 2017. And as they have not had the 
benefit of this money, I think TSB should also pay Mr and Ms N interest on these account 
fees, at a rate of 8% simple, less tax, calculated from the date of each fee to the date of 
settlement.
In their response, Mr and Ms N have referred to the impact this issue mayve had on other
account holders. But I can only consider the individual circumstances of this complaint. And I
can only require TSB to put matters right in relation to this specific complaint. So I wont (and
cant) comment further on the wider impact this issue mayve had on other account holders.
I understand that Mr and Ms N say the policy was either suitable or not suitable and say they
had no benefit from the travel policy  as they never claimed. However, they did have the
benefit of the policy. They were covered for all insured events on each occasion they
travelled, it was just Mr Ns PEMC they werent covered for. So they did have the benefit of
the protection of the insurance policy. And as they said, had they downgraded their Premier
account, they wouldve paid for alternative cover (from July 2017 onwards at least) which
theyve already said wouldve cost them even more than what they paid for the Premier
account. So I remain of the view that they had not actually lost out financially - from July
2017 onwards - due to the shortcomings of TSBs change of travel insurer letter.
Finally, I have considered whether additional compensation is also warranted. I do
understand that when they discovered the new insurer was unaware of Mr Ns PEMCs and
then confirmed it would not cover them, this will have been surprising to Mr and Ms N, as
they thought they were already covered. But I dont think this is enough to warrant an
additional compensatory award (in addition to the compensatory interest award that I think is
warranted).
Mr and Ms N say they are now concerned about whether theyll be able to get cover for Mr
Ns PEMCS. But they are essentially in the same position now (in terms of getting cover)
than they wouldve been in had they discovered in 2016 that the new insurer would not cover
Mr Ns PEMCs. Theyd still need to declare his conditions to any prospective insurer(s). And
itll be up to the individual insurer(s) to decide whether it is prepared to provide cover for Mr
Ns PEMCs, and if it does, whether it will charge an additional premium to do so.
I also note that Mr and Ms N say they should get compensation because they have had to
go through the complaints process, and they say this has been exhausting and inconvenient.
I do appreciate that going through a complaints process does require a fair amount of effort
and inconvenience. But our service does not routinely award compensation to consumers
just because they have had to go through a business (or our) complaints process. And Ive
not seen anything specific to this complaint that makes me think that TSB has unnecessarily
added to the distress and inconvenience that anyone will naturally experience when making
a complaint.
So I dont currently think that a compensatory award (beyond the interest award) is
warranted here.
Putting matters right
So based on what I have seen, to put matters right, I currently think that TSB should:
Refund Mr and Ms Ns Premier account fees from November 2016 until June 2017;
andPay interest on those fees, at a rate of 8% simple, less tax, calculated from the date
of each fee to the date of settlement.
Neither party responded to my second provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. 
As neither Mr and Mrs N, nor TSB, provided any further responses, Ive seen no reason why 
I should reach a different outcome to the one I reached in my provisional decision of 24 May 
2021.
Overall, I think that TSB did not make it sufficiently clear to Mr and Ms N, that they had to 
declare their conditions to the new travel insurer, when TSB changed the insurer for the 
Premier account travel cover. And based on what Mr and Ms N have told us about their 
circumstances, Im satisfied that they were likely to have downgraded their Premier account 
to a fee-free account, as soon as the learnt that the new insurer would not cover Mr Ns 
PEMCs. I also think that, due to their circumstances, they would not have paid for alternative 
travel cover until July 2017  so I think they lost out financially because of this.
  
Putting things right
To put matters right, TSB should:
Refund Mr and Ms Ns Premier account fees from November 2016 until June 2017;
and
Add 8% simple interest to those fees, calculated from the date they paid each fee, 
until the date of settlement.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB to take off tax from this interest. TSB must give Mr 
and Mrs N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
 Because of the reasons given above and in my provisional decisions, I uphold this 
complaint. I therefore require TSB Bank plc to do what I have set out above to put matters 
right.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Ms N to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman