DRN-3796123
The complaint
Miss G has complained about the way a claim she made for an escape of water under her 
home buildings insurance policy is being dealt with by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited.
 What happened
In November 2021 Miss Gs home suffered damage as a result of an escape of water from a 
leak in an upstairs bathroom. Damage spread to downstairs through the ceiling. 
Between November 2021 and January 2022 Miss G made a series of complaints to Admiral 
about the handling of her claim. In summary she complained about the delay, Admirals 
decision to pass the claim to a Loss Adjuster (LA) and she was very unhappy with the LAs 
handling of the claim. Although Miss G reported the claim and arranged for the leak to be 
repaired by 17 November 2021, Miss G told us dehumidifiers werent provided until January 
2022 and it took 28 days for her home to be dried out. 
Miss G was told that her sofa was beyond economical repair. But after drying out was 
completed, the LA said it no longer needed replacing. 
Admiral had offered Miss G a cash settlement for £3,210.73 for the building repairs 
excluding VAT. But Miss G said it wasnt anywhere near an amount that she could carry out 
the repairs for. 
Admiral upheld some of Miss Gs complaints and paid a total compensation sum of £225 for 
some poor service it provided. Admiral accepted that it should have asked for more 
information about the damage sooner from Miss G to properly deal with her claim. It said it 
had failed to manage her expectations.
Our Investigator found that Admiral hadnt offered Miss G the option to have its suppliers 
carry out the repairs. In line with our approach, she therefore found it unreasonable of 
Admiral to offer a cash settlement based on its suppliers discounted rates. She thought this 
would only have been fair if it had given Miss G the option to have the works done through 
Admiral, but it hadnt. 
Due to the time that had passed, and given Admirals acknowledgement that the lead time 
for works to be done was significant - the Investigator didnt think it reasonable to expect 
Miss G to consider this as an option now. And Miss G made it clear to us that she would not 
wish to take up this an option if it were offered, given her experience of dealing with the LA. 
The Investigator thought that the delays were largely due to issues outside of Admirals 
control. But she thought it was responsible for an unreasonable delay in arranging for the 
drying of Miss Gs home between November 2021 and January 2022. 
Admiral said in February 2022 it had contacted Miss Gs LA to ask it why it found its cash 
settlement too low, but it didnt provide an explanation. The Investigator thought Admiral 
should have done more and contacted Miss G directly in the absence of a response from her 
appointed LA. So she thought this had contributed to the delay in progressing Miss Gs claim 
too.
The Investigator made the following recommendations:
Pay the market value equivalent as a cash settlement to Miss G to have the works 
carried out - subject to two quotes provided by Miss G. Admiral can choose from one 
of the quotes to meet the costs to repair the building damage to Miss Gs home under 
her claim.
Pay Miss G £75 compensation in addition to the £225 already paid for the delay and 
poor service Admiral provided. 
Provide a Scope of Works (WOS) including potential damage when a vanity unit in 
the bathroom is removed as part of the repairs to anticipate costs of replacing wall 
tiles in the process.
Admiral didnt agree. There was further back and forth as Miss G provided quotes for repairs 
and Admiral queried the amounts and that the quotes didnt all come from VAT registered 
contractors. It disputed the measurements provided for the flooring. Admiral said Miss Gs 
LA was appointed to act on her behalf, so it isnt responsible for her LAs failure to contact it 
or update Miss G.
In the meantime, Admiral paid a settlement to Miss G for the additional electricity costs she 
incurred as a result of the drying equipment. And it reimbursed Miss G for the costs she paid 
for carpet remnants as temporary flooring. 
In July 2022 our Investigator issued a second view. Miss G had provided quotes for a vanity 
unit which included a basin - but as only the vanity unit was damaged, she recommended 
Miss G provide two quotes for a vanity base unit only. 
She found no evidence that the flooring quotes provided by Miss G included underneath the 
kitchen units which werent previously laminated. So she recommended Admiral meet the 
costs to replace the flooring based on one of the two quotes Miss G had provided. 
She found from a contractors report that bathroom tiles had dried out successfully and so 
didnt require replacing. 
She agreed with Admiral that skirting boards didnt require replacement - and the flooring 
went up to the skirting boards so they didnt require removing for replacement flooring. 
Miss G accepted the Investigators follow up view. She provided quotes for decorating and 
plastering. 
Admiral queried the quotes. The Investigator was satisfied they had met Admirals 
requirements. 
Admiral didnt provide a further response. And Miss G asked for an ombudsmans decision 
as she was very unhappy with the delay she says Admiral continue to cause in order for her 
claim to be settled. Miss G wants the compensation award to be reconsidered in light of this.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 October 2022. I thought Miss G had done enough to 
provide quotes for the works and I though it was unfair of Admiral not to have given Miss G 
the option for approved contractors to carry out the works. I thought it had caused undue 
delay in arranging for the home to be promptly dried out. So I intended to require Admiral to 
do the following:
Pay Miss G a cash settlement based on one of the two quotes shes provided 
for each set of building repairs in order to settle her claim.
Pay Miss G £275 compensation in addition to the £225 its already paid for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Both parties have agreed to my provisional decision. So the case has been passed back to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision, my final decision is on the same lines. 
Dealing with any claim, particularly one involving water or fire damage, will involve significant 
disruption and upheaval. This is inevitable but fortunately not something a policyholder faces 
dealing with every day. 
My decision focuses on the salient points. But I can assure both parties that Ive carefully 
considered all of the information provided. 
I think that once Miss G confirmed the leak had been repaired on 17 November 2021 in a 
call, Admiral should have taken prompt action in arranging for the drying out of Miss Gs 
home to begin as part of the claim. But this didnt happen until January 2022. It seems that 
Miss G offered to make arrangements herself - which should not have been necessary - but 
was unsuccessful. 
I think this period of delay caused Miss G and her young childs living conditions to be 
uncomfortable over a period of two months. While I agree with Admiral that it doesnt mean 
their conditions were uninhabitable, Ive no doubt the impact of living in a damp home over 
the coldest months of the year which required professionally drying equipment was 
significant. 
Admirals policy says that it will decide how to settle a claim. We dont think there is anything 
wrong with an insurer deciding to settle a claim by way of a cash payment. And insurers 
attract discounted rates from a network of suppliers for claim related works. So they can 
often arrange for the works to be carried out more economically than if a customer paid 
commercial rates for the same work.
However, we only think its fair for an insurer to apply the discounted rates to a cash 
settlement if it offered a customer the option to have the repairs done by its supplier. Then if 
a customer chooses to take a cash settlement, it is an informed decision based on a fair 
range of options. 
That didnt happen in this case - until the Investigator began her enquiries with Admiral. By 
this time, Miss G didnt want to have any dealings with the LA appointed by Admiral. I think 
that due to the time that has passed, it isnt unreasonable for Miss G to reach this decision. 
And as Ive said, Admiral acknowledges that the lead time for its suppliers means Miss G 
would have to wait even longer for works to take place.
So in this case I dont think its fair for Admiral to settle Miss Gs claim by offering a cash 
settlement based on its own supplier rates. 
I think Miss G has provided adequate quotes to Admiral to enable it to choose from to reach 
a market rate cash settlement for the total building repair works. Given that Admirals 
decision not to offer the option for its suppliers to carry out the works led to Miss G needing 
to provide quotes, I think shes done enough to enable her claim to be settled. 
I think Admirals failure to install drying equipment sooner to Miss Gs home - and its failure 
to offer Miss G for its suppliers to carry out the repairs - has caused significant distress and 
inconvenience. So I think Admiral should pay a total of £500 compensation to Miss G. This 
means I think Admiral should pay Miss G a further £275 compensation in addition to the 
£225 its already paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:Pay Miss G a cash settlement based on one of the two quotes shes provided 
for each set of building repairs in order to settle her claim.
Pay Miss G £275 compensation in addition to the £225 its already paid for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Miss G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman