DRN-1833161
The complaint
Mrs and Mr D are unhappy Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited didnt accept Mr Ds claim on 
their critical illness insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2001 Mrs and Mr D took out a Life and Critical Illness policy. Sadly, in 2018 Mr D was 
diagnosed with dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP), a form of cancer. 
In February 2019 Mr D made a claim to Aviva. But Aviva didnt accept the claim. It said
Mr Ds DFSP was a skin cancer so it was excluded. But it did except it had caused a delay 
when reviewing the claim, so it offered Mr D £250 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint. But she decided not to uphold it. In her opinion, the 
medical evidence showed Mr Ds cancer was excluded under the policy. 
Mr D disagreed. He said his treating consultant had said DFSP was treated medically as a 
sarcoma so it shouldnt be considered to be a skin cancer.   
So this complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr D. But Id like to take some time to explain how 
Ive reached my decision.  
Each complaint is decided on its own facts and merits, and in considering this case Ive 
taken into account the evidence provided about Mr Ds specific condition and whether this 
demonstrates the definition has been met.
The following definition has to be met for a cancer to be paid on Mr Ds policy;
Cancer:
A malignant tumour characterised by the uncontrolled growth and spread of malignant cells 
and invasion of tissue. The term cancer includes leukaemia and Hodgkin's disease but the 
following are excluded:
All tumours which are histologically described as pre-malignant, as non-invasive or 
as cancer in situ.
All forms of lymphoma in the presence of any Human Immune-deficiency Virus
Kaposi's sarcoma in the presence of any Human Immune-deficiency Virus.Any skin cancer other than invasive malignant melanoma."
 
So Avivas policy will not cover any skin cancer other than malignant melanoma. So I need 
to be satisfied that Mr Ds cancer isnt a skin cancer. 
Ive carefully considered what Mr D has provided from the World Health Organisation (WHO) 
and Sarcoma UK in relation to how DFSP is classified. He says these show his DFSP isnt a 
skin cancer. But Ive also considered the medical notes from Mr Ds consultant and Avivas 
medical advisors.  
Avivas medical advisors have said the skin can be defined as three main structures: 
epidermis, dermis and subcutaneous tissue. They have also said that the WHO has now 
recognised Mr Ds cancer in the book of tumours of soft tissue and bone, as well as the book 
of skin tumours. It says this is because DFSP is a soft tissue neoplasm that presents 
primarily in the skin. 
In the report from Mr Ds consultant, it says in Mr Ds case the spindle cells had permeated 
the dermis (skin) and the subcutaneous adipose tissue. And the skin punch biopsy 
confirmed a spindled lesion extended from the dermis into the subcutaneous tissue.
Ive considered this carefully, but overall, Ive found the evidence from Avivas medical 
advisors in how skin is defined and the reasons around DFSPs classification to be more 
persuasive here. Whilst I accept that DFSP is also considered to be a sarcoma, it is also still 
classified as a skin cancer by the WHO. And Mr Ds report confirms the cancer developed in 
the layers of Mr Ds skin. So, based upon the evidence Ive seen, I dont think it was unfair 
for Aviva to decline Mr Ds claim as the policy specifically excludes all skin cancers except 
malignant melanoma.
I can understand why Mr D was frustrated by the length of time the claim took to be 
resolved. I note Aviva has recognised this and offered £250 for the delay. Claims such as 
these can sometimes take time to resolve and in this case, it was finely balanced. But Aviva 
has recognised in this instance it didnt provide the service it expects. Having reviewed the 
timeline of communication here, Im satisfied this offer is fair and in line with what this service 
would expect to see in similar cases. 
So, Im not going to ask Aviva to take any further action here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman