DRN-2525922
The complaint
Mr I has complained about U K Insurance Limited (UKI); it handled a contents insurance 
claim for him in 2006 for which Mr I believes settlement money is outstanding.
What happened
In 2006 UKI, via its jewellery supplier, gave Mr I a gift card so he could replace his high-end 
watch. Mr I didnt replace the watch but did use some of the money on the gift card. 
In 2013 the jewellery supplier noted the total of the gift card had not been used and sent the 
remaining value to UKI. It isnt clear what happened to the funds at that time or in the years 
since. But in 2020 Mr I found the gift card and, realising he hadnt spent its full value, he 
called UKI and asked to be sent the outstanding amount in cash.
UKI said this wasnt possible. It explained that the claim was so old there was no longer a 
record of either it or of any contact from the jewellery supplier in 2013. Nor was there any 
way to know that any refund it had been sent was not passed on to Mr I. UKI noted that 
whilst Mr I did not believe hed been told the gift card had a finite life, it felt it was likely hed 
been told this. Mr I complained to us.
Our investigator felt it would be unreasonable to make UKI refund any monies to Mr I. He 
said this was particularly the case as UKI did not seem to have done anything wrong.
Mr I said he definitely wasnt told there was an expiry date. He feels UKI should have 
returned the funds to him before and that he doesnt believe there is no record.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive no reason to think Mr I wasnt told about the expiry date. Of course he may not have 
read the communication that was sent to him about this, or he may just have forgotten in the 
period since. But Mr I clearly chose not to spend all the funds on the card at the time it was 
provided to him and I think its fair to say that, whilst he always intended to use the remaining 
value on the card at some point, this then got forgotten about. I dont think that Mr I being 
aware of the expiry date would have changed that. 
But I think things would have been different if Mr I had found the card earlier, say between 
2007 and 2013. UKIs answer indicates it would have been able to trace the outstanding 
amount at that time, and verify it against the 2006 claim. I think from what UKI has said now, 
and noting that the jewellery supplier was able to refund UKI in 2013, regardless of the 
expiry date for the card, UKI would have felt it fair to pay Mr I the outstanding sum.
The difficulty here has become one of timing. Mr I did not discover that he had money 
outstanding on the gift card until 2020  seven years after UKIs claim record would have 
been closed and 14 years after the claim itself. I accept UKI no longer has any records for 
this claim and that this creates difficulties for it in validating what Mr I has told it he believes 
he is owed. 
I havent seen that UKI likely acted unfairly in respect of the settlement sum or that it failed 
Mr I in any way. I think UKI reasonably considered Mr Is request and gave him a fair answer 
in respect of its position.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against U K Insurance Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman