DRN-2809461
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined her pet 
insurance claim. My references to Red Sands include its agents.
What happened
On 26 January 2020 Mrs A took out a time limited policy for her dog which covered 
accidents and illnesses up to 365 days from the first clinical signs or symptoms being 
noticed, or the annual condition limit was reached. The insurer was Red Sands. Mrs A had 
taken out similar policies with Red Sands since about 2015.
On 22 May 2020 Mrs As dog was very unwell. She looked at Red Sands on-line service 
which advised that she take her dog for urgent vet treatment. The out of hours vet said 
Mrs As dog had suspected heart failure. Very sadly her dog didnt respond to treatment and 
he was put to sleep later that night. Mrs A claimed for the cost of the vet treatment for 
congestive heart failure and the death of a pet benefit.
Red Sands declined the claim. It said Mrs As dog was diagnosed with a heart murmur on 
20 February 2019 so the treatment claimed for was outside the 365 days cover for the 
condition.
Mrs A complained to us. In summary she said Red Sands decline of her claim was unfair 
because:
on 20 February 2019 her dog was diagnosed by a vet with a grade 3 heart murmur. 
The vet recommended echo tests to monitor the murmur but no treatment was 
recommended that she could or would have claimed for. The vet also told her it was 
an innocent murmur. Mrs A says she followed the vets advice so that shouldnt be 
the start of the 365 days cover for the condition
on 20 February 2020 her dog was diagnosed with a grade 4 heart murmur. Mrs A 
says that was a new diagnosis so the 365 days cover should be from 20 February 
2020 and her claim for the May 2020 treatment was within time
if the 365 days cover did start on 20 February 2019 the claim should still be covered 
as after she received Red Sands final response letter it sent her a letter saying due 
to Covid-19 the 365 days cover limit was extended by three months. So Red Sands 
was aware of the detrimental effect lockdown had on being able to get vet treatment 
and for the same reason she wasnt able to get treatment for her dog between 
20 February 2020 and his death on 22 May 2020.
Our investigator thought Red Sands fairly declined the claim. 
Mrs A disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. She added that:
as Red Sands on-line service said she should take her dog for urgent vet treatment it 
had accepted cover by offering her advice
the 3 months extension to the policy cover applied to a time when treatment wasnt 
accessible, between 23 March to 30 May 2020, and her claim was within that period
the death of a pet benefit referred to the commencement date or renewal period. 
Mrs A said she had a new policy from January 2020 and her dog had no conditions 
then. And if Red Sands regarded her policy continuing over several years it should 
refund the 2020 policy premiums as her dog wouldnt have been covered and she 
was insuring for no reason.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Red Sands fairly and reasonably declined the claim for the vet 
costs and death of a pet benefit, and I think it did. I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Claim for vet costs 
The policy covers vet fees for:
all reasonable costs for treatment of your pet by a vet due to accident, illness or 
disease up to the maximum benefit limit as specified in your schedule. (Cover is 
provided for up to 365 days only from the day the condition is first noted by you or 
your vet, up to the amount specified in your policy limit).
I dont think its always fair for an insurer to say the 365 days cover starts from when a pet 
first shows clinical signs of a condition. Generally I think the 365 days should start when a 
vet recommends investigation or treatment for clinical signs and the consumer could have 
made a claim on their policy. 
Mrs As dogs regular vet records of 20 February 2019 say:
Heart murmur *new finding* grade 3/6 LHS.Adv echo and pro BNP
The regular vet records of 20 February 2020 say:
Grade 4 murmur now-was grade 3 last year. Definitely recommend echo + probnp.
I think Red Sands reasonably considered 20 February 2019 to be the start date for the 
365 days cover for Mrs As dogs heart conditions because:
although the vet didnt advise treatment, on that date the vet records show they did 
recommend investigations for the heart murmur - an echocardiogram which would 
have identified the cause of the murmur and blood tests. Mrs A decided not to have 
those investigations but Red Sands reasonably understood they were recommended 
by the vet on that date
Mrs A says she couldnt or wouldnt have claimed for the investigations if theyd taken 
place in 2019. Ive seen no reason in the policy why she couldnt have claimed  the  
investigations wouldnt be routine treatment (which the policy doesnt cover). If Mrs A 
wouldnt have claimed for the costs that would have been her choice but doesnt 
affect that 20 February 2019 was the relevant date for the 365 days policy cover to 
starttheres no vet evidence to support that on 20 February 2019 the vet told Mrs A her 
dog had an innocent heart murmur. As Red Sands final response letter says an 
innocent heart mummer is common among young puppies but Mrs As dog was 
around seven years at that time. I dont think the vet would have recommended the 
investigations if they thought the murmur was innocent
I dont think the grade 4 heart murmur was a new condition. Red Sands could 
reasonably understand the heart murmur was an indication that Mrs As dogs heart 
wasnt working as it should and the progression of the murmur from grade 3 to 
grade 4 unfortunately meant his heart problem was worsening, not that it was a new 
condition. So Red Sands reasonably understood the condition didnt start on 
20 February 2020.
As Im satisfied Red Sands reasonably said 20 February 2019 was the start date for the 
365 days cover for heart conditions the cover for the condition ended on 20 February 2020.
The emergency vet records of 22 May 2020 say Mrs A put her dogs symptoms onto 
Red Sands website which said to seek veterinary assistance immediately. That was the 
right information for Red Sands website to give for her dogs welfare given his symptoms. 
I dont agree with Mrs A that she could reasonably understand the information to seek vet 
advice meant Red Sands had agreed to cover any vet treatment required irrespective of the 
policy terms and conditions.
Red Sands email about the three months extension, which Mrs A received at the end of 
June 2020 said:
we have extended the period in which you can claim on our Time Limited policies by 
3 months, at no extra cost to you where lockdown has impacted your ability to see a 
vet. Whether it was due to you being in self-isolation or availability at the vets, we will 
look to cover these claims for you.
Please be aware this extension is only applicable if you have not already met or 
exceeded your benefit limit. All claims made under this extension are subject to usual 
T&Cs so please check your policy documents if you are unsure.
Your Time Limited policy will usually only cover a condition for 365 days from the 
onset date at which it point it will then be excluded. As we dont want you to miss out 
due to the current situation, the extension will cover:
Any claim for a condition where you first noticed your pets signs or symptoms prior 
to 30th May, where treatment was not accessible between 23rd March and 30th May 
2020 due to lockdown and therefore delayed.
I dont think the extension means Red Sands should pay the claim. If it was just that three 
months was added to the 365 days cover the end date would be 20 May 2020 which is 
before the date the treatment claimed for happened, although I appreciate only two days 
before. But Red Sands email says the extension applies where treatment was delayed due 
to not being able to access vet treatment between 23 March and 30 May 2020 due to 
lockdown. Theres no evidence from Mrs As regular vet that she was actively trying to get 
treatment for her dogs heart condition that she couldnt access due lockdown between those 
dates. Fortunately Mrs A was able to access treatment during those dates although sadly 
her dog didnt respond to treatment.
Im satisfied Red Sands fairly and reasonably declined Mrs As claim for vet costs.Death of a pet benefit
The policy pays this benefit, subject to the policy terms and conditions. One of the 
exclusions is:
Death due to an illness of any dog or cat aged 8 years or over at the commencement 
date or any renewal period.
The policy summary says theres an exclusion for the benefit for death due to illness of your 
pet aged 8 years or older.
Mrs As dog was over the age limit when this policy started in January 2020 so Red Sands 
fairly declined the claim for the benefit. I think other policy exclusions potentially also applied 
to Mrs As claim for this benefit but Ive not considered those further as Red Sands only 
needed to be able to rely on one exclusion to decline.
Red Sands hasnt treated the policies Mrs A had taken out over the years as one continuous 
policy. She took out a new policy in January 2020, separate from the January 2019 policy 
although the 365 days cover for a condition means that cover can run over two policy 
periods. Theres no basis for me to say Red Sands should refund the policy premium, as 
Mrs A suggests. Although the 365 days cover for her dogs heart condition had ended before 
the claimed for treatment happened, and her dog was over the age limit for the death 
benefit, he was still covered for other matters subject to the policy terms and conditions.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman