DRN-3057438
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold 
them an Advantage Gold packaged bank account in January 2012. Mr and Mrs S have 
explained that they were told that they had to take out the Advantage Gold account in order 
to improve their credit rating to enable them to get a mortgage.
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and they didnt think that NatWest had mis-
sold the packaged account. Mr and Mrs S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to decide what to do about this complaint. Having looked at all 
the information provided, I dont think that NatWest mis-sold the packaged account. Id like to 
explain the reasons for my decision. 
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs S were given a clear choice in taking the 
Advantage Gold account. At this point, it may help for me to explain that I have to make my 
decision based on what I think is more likely than not to have happened, having weighed up 
what both parties have been able to provide me with. 
Mr and Mrs S upgraded from a free account, so I think that they wouldve been aware that 
NatWest generally offered free accounts and that they were an option for them. I can see 
that Mr and Mrs S say that they were pressurised into taking out the account and I accept 
that they may have been strongly encouraged to take out the account. But I dont think from 
what Mr and Mrs S have said that they thought they had no choice but to agree to the 
upgrade.
Mr and Mrs S have said that they thought they had to take out the account in order to 
improve their credit rating to ultimately obtain a mortgage and that the member of staff that 
sold them the account told them that their credit rating needed improving. 
But I cant see why Mr and Mrs S wouldve believed that their credit rating needed improving. 
For example I cant see any application for credit that were declined near the time the 
account was sold. Moreover, I cant see that there were any applications for a mortgage in 
the years after Mr and Mrs S agreed to the account. I note Mr Ss comments that they were 
not in a position to apply for a mortgage. However had it been the case that Mr and Mrs S 
took out this account solely with the intention of getting a mortgage, I cant see why they 
wouldve kept it for all these years, and continued paying the monthly fee, when they were 
not in a position to actually apply for one.
At the time that the account was taken out it came with a number of insurance and non-
insurance benefits. The insurance benefits included travel insurance, mobile phone 
insurance and breakdown cover. The non-insurance benefits included preferential rates on 
mortgages, personal loans and overdrafts. 
So, I think it may be the case that Mr and Mrs S were told that they could get better rates on 
borrowing, rather than they needed the account in order to improve their credit rating to 
obtain borrowing. I also note that Mr and Mrs S have explained that they previously held 
breakdown cover, and I can see that they used the cover that came with the account. They 
have also mentioned that they held a mobile phone and occasionally travelled. So overall, 
albeit on balance, I think that its likely that Mr and Mrs S agreed to the upgrade for the 
package of benefits that it offered, rather than because they thought they had to upgrade to 
improve their credit rating. Given this, I am satisfied that is more likely than not that Mr and 
Mrs S were given a fair choice to take out the Advantage Gold account.
This sale was not carried out on an advised basis, so NatWest did not have to ensure the 
account was right for Mr and Mrs S at the time it was sold. That said, it did need to give Mr 
and Mrs S enough information about the account so they could decide this for themself. 
I think its likely that this feature of the account wouldve been highlighted to them, to make 
the account seem attractive. I also cant see anything specific that Mr and Mrs S were not 
told, that wouldve changed their decision to agree to the account. So overall there is not 
enough for me to say that this account was sold incorrectly.
I understand that this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs S and I understand that, with 
hindsight, they may feel that they have paid a lot of money over the years for this account 
and have not derived much benefit from holding it. But just because Mr and Mrs S may now 
feel that it has been poor value for money does not mean that the account was sold 
incorrectly in the first place.
So while I want to reassure Mr and Mrs S that I have carefully looked at all the information 
provided and thought about everything that has been said, I dont think that NatWest mis-
sold the packaged account. 
I should explain that this decision represents the final stage in our process and there is no 
further recourse to appeal. That said they are free to pursue this complaint elsewhere if they 
so wish.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman