DRN-3944288
Complaint
Miss C has complained about a loan Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Likely Loans provided Miss C with a loan for £6,000.00 in August 2021. This loan had an 
APR of 24.9% and was due to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of just over £190, which 
meant the total amount to be repaid was £9,143.04. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss C and Likely Loans had told us. And she 
thought Likely Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss C unfairly. So she didnt 
recommend that Miss Cs complaint be upheld. Miss C disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Cs complaint.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss C could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what 
we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans says it agreed to Miss Cs application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Miss C could 
comfortably afford to make the monthly repayments she was committing to. On the other 
hand, Miss C has said she couldnt afford the payments.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss C and Likely Loans have said. 
Likely Loans credit file enquiries showed Miss Cs debt total at the time of the application 
was reasonable in comparison to her declared income, appeared to be reasonably managed 
and that she only had 3 active accounts in total, of which most of what she owed was on a 
hire-purchase agreement.
I accept that Miss Cs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information Likely Loans obtained. I know that Miss C has 
disputed the amount attributed to her living costs. But given there wasnt anything in the 
other information gathered, to indicate that Miss C fell outside the profile of the average 
borrower, Ive not seen anything to suggest that it was unreasonable to rely on average data 
in this instance.
I also accept that if Likely Loans had carried out further checks  such as obtaining bank 
statements  it might have reached a different outcome. But the key here is that its only fair 
and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something 
wrong. 
Given the circumstances here, the lack of obvious inconsistencies as well as the relative 
plausibility of what had already been gathered, I dont think that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have extended into the level of checks Miss C is suggesting. As 
this is the case, I think that Likely Loans carried out proportionate checks and reasonably 
relied on what it found out which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Miss C unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with her loan. And Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint. I appreciate this will 
be very disappointing for Miss C. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint, I would remind Likely Loans of its obligation 
to exercise forbearance and due consideration should Miss C be experiencing difficulty (and 
bearing in mind what Miss C has said about her current circumstances during the course of 
this complaint) and it choose to collect payments from her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman