DRN-3942399
The complaint
Mr L complains that Marsh Finance Ltd irresponsibly granted him a credit agreement he 
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In March 2018, Mr L acquired a used car financed by a credit agreement from Marsh. Mr L 
was required to make 60 monthly repayments of £243, with a final optional payment of £642 
if he wanted to own the car at the end of the agreement. The total repayable under the 
agreement was £14,979.00.
Mr L says that Marsh didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says had it done 
proper checks, Marsh would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable for him as he 
already had a bad payment history. Marsh didnt agree. It said that Mr Ls application was 
agreed by an underwriter after manual checks had been carried out. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Marsh didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr L didnt agree and said that Marsh was already aware that he was about to lose his job, 
leading to a change in his financial circumstances, when he was arranging the finance.  
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Marsh will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Ive seen that Marsh took steps to verify Mr Ls income at the time by requesting a copy of a 
recent payslip. One of the checks Marsh completed showed that Mr L had a county court 
judgment registered against him in January 2018. Mr L also says he had at least two other 
county court judgments against him, although I havent seen any evidence or other details 
about these. But I think the evidence of even one county court judgment so close to the date 
of the agreement was enough to have indicated there was a real possibility that Mr L could 
have been struggling financially or at risk of getting into difficulties. This would be particularly 
relevant given that the agreement would last for five years. It therefore would have been 
proportionate for Marsh to have got a more thorough understanding of his financial 
circumstances before lending. I understand that manual checks were carried out after Mr Ls 
application was looked at by an underwriter, but its not clear to me from the available 
information what these checks were, so I cant comment further on that.  
Ive also noted that Marsh didnt ask Mr L about his expenditure. Without knowing more 
about Mr Ls regular committed expenditure  including other credit he already had in place 
elsewhere  I dont consider Marsh would have got a reasonable understanding of whether 
the agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didnt complete proportionate checks. Mr L 
told us he already had at least one other loan in place with his father as his guarantor. 
Ive next thought about what Marsh would likely have found out if it had completed 
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. Our adjudicator asked Mr L to provide us 
with evidence of their financial circumstances at the time the lending was taken out. 
However, he hasnt given us enough information to fairly determine what proportionate 
checks would likely have shown Marsh. 
In response to our adjudicators view, Mr L said that hed told Marsh at the time of making 
his application that he was about to lose his job. I think its important to say here that, whilst 
Mr L has sent us evidence about losing his job soon after taking out the agreement, I havent 
seen anything to suggest that at the time he was arranging the finance, Marsh was made 
aware of this. Ive also listened to a phone call that took place shortly before the agreement 
was approved, where Mr L confirmed to a representative who was acting on behalf of Marsh 
that he was unaware of any forthcoming circumstances that might have affected his ability to 
maintain his payments. Ive seen from Marshs records that Mr L first told them that he was 
in difficulty around three months after the agreement was completed, saying that he would 
be unable to continue making the same level of payments due to a change in his 
employment status. 
It follows that, as I dont consider that Mr L has been able to demonstrate the credit 
agreement was unaffordable, or that Marsh ought to have known about a significant 
impending change in his work situation, I cant reasonably conclude that Marsh ought to 
have known that Mr L might struggle to make the repayments due under the agreement. Im 
therefore not persuaded that Marsh acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman