DRN-3830465
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA UW) have
refused to pay her claim under her motor insurance policy following the theft of her vehicle.
Mrs R is represented by Mr R.
What happened
Mrs R bought a car in 2019 on finance for about £117,000. Mr R took out a policy on behalf
of Mrs R with AA UW through a comparison site in November 2020 to cover her vehicle.
From what AA UW have said it seems the comparison site provided a defaulted value of
£73,600 for Mrs Rs vehicle at the time Mr R did the quote. The Statement of Insurance
produced by AA UW showed the Car Valuation (inc. accessories) as £73,600. The
Statement of Insurance was provided to Mrs R to check. This said she should ensure the
information provided on it was correct. Neither Mr R nor Mrs R contacted AA UW about the
value shown.
Mrs R received renewal documents from AA UW prior to the renewal of her policy in
November 2021. These included a Statement of Insurance, which again showed the Car
Valuation as £73,600. The Statement also said Mrs R needed to check the information on it
and let AA UW know if any of it was incorrect. Neither Mr R nor Mrs R contacted AA UW on
this occasion either.
Mrs Rs vehicle was stolen in March 2022 and she made a claim under her policy. AA UW
said she had misrepresented the value of her vehicle when she took out the policy and at
renewal in November 2021. As a result of this, they avoided both her policies (treated them
as if they never existed) and rejected her claim because of this. 
Mrs R complained to AA UW, but they wouldnt change their mind, so she complained to us 
about their decision.
One of our investigators considered Mrs Rs complaint. He said it should be upheld on the
basis Mrs R hadnt failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when
she renewed her policy in November 2021. And he said that this meant AA UW should settle 
her claim.
This was because he was satisfied Mr R had checked the value of Mrs Rs car before
renewing her policy and was entitled to think £73,600 was an appropriate market value for it.
AA UW did not agree with our investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They 
said when Mr R was asked about the value of the car just after it was stolen, he said he 
thought it was about £90,000. And they think this and the fact that the industry guides
used for valuing cars at the time Mrs R renewed her policy showed the market value in
November 2021 at between £78,000 and £81,000, proves Mrs R failed to take
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she renewed her policy.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 November 2022 and I set out what Id provisionally 
decided and why as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The law Ive considered in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to
make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Under CIDRA, each time a policy is renewed a new consumer contract starts. And this
means that in order for AA UW to be able to avoid paying Mrs Rs claim, they need to show
they were entitled to avoid the policy (consumer contract) she took out at renewal in 2021. If
they were also entitled to avoid the policy she took out originally in 2020, they could do this,
but it would not have any impact on Mrs Rs claim.
AA UW thinks Mr R on behalf of Mrs R failed to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when he took out the original policy. But I dont agree that Mr R did do
this. This is because hes explained to me that, at the time, he knew that their vehicle would
have depreciated a great deal in value since theyd bought it in 2019. And, although he cant
recall exactly why he left the value as £73,600 when this came up on the comparison site, he
thinks it must have been because he thought it was adequate.
So, I think all Mr R did on behalf of Mrs R was provide what would be best described as a
statement of opinion, as opposed to a representation, when he left the value as £73,600. By
this I mean he just estimated the value was this amount, as opposed to knowing it was as a
matter of fact. I appreciate (from my research) the market value (defined in the policy as the
cost of replacing the vehicle) was somewhere between £79,000 and £86,000 in November
2020. But  as Ive said  it seems Mr R didnt actually check. And I think he was entitled to
assume the estimate provided by the comparison site was adequate, considering the vehicle
would have depreciated considerably since Mrs R bought it. After all, no-one really knows
the cost of replacing a vehicle until they actually have to do it.
This means I dont think [AA UW] can rely on CIDRA in relation to the policy Mr R took out 
for Mrs R in November 2020 due to the lack of a statement by Mr R at this time capable of 
being a representation. This means it wouldnt produce a fair and reasonable outcome to this
complaint if I allowed AA UW to rely on CIDRA to avoid the policy Mrs R took out in 2020.
And I think as part of the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint AA UW should be
required to remove any record of the avoidance from their records and any central
databases they put it on. If AA UW returned the premium for this policy they will need to
agree a way for Mrs R to pay this back. This could be to deduct it from whats due if they pay
her claim.
Ive also considered whether AA UW were entitled to avoid the new policy (consumer
contract) Mrs R took out at renewal in November 2021. And I dont think they were. This is
because Mr R has provided evidence to show he checked a reputable car valuation guide
and it showed the Private Price for their vehicle of between £69,365 and £77,885. Hesexplained he wasnt surprised by this, as he knew the model of vehicle was one of the
fastest depreciating vehicles from new on the market. Ive seen a copy of this valuation and
the document properties that show it was produced at the start of November 2021. So Im
satisfied it is what Mr R obtained prior to Mrs R renewing her policy. So, whilst the other
recognised guides suggest the market value was higher than this in November 2021, these
werent available to Mrs R as a way of checking. And I think Mr Rs view that £73,600 was a
realistic value was reasonable. Again, I view this as a statement of opinion by Mrs R, or Mr R
on her behalf, as neither of them had any idea what it would actually cost to replace the car
at the time.
Im not concerned that Mr R said he thought the value of the vehicle was around £90,000
soon after the claim in March 2022. This is because hes explained hed visited local dealers
and established the cost of replacing the vehicle had gone up significantly due to the strong
second-hand market.
It therefore follows that I dont think Mrs R or Mr R on her behalf made a statement that is
capable of being described as a representation, as opposed to a statement of opinion when
Mrs Rs policy was renewed in November 2021. And this means I dont think AA UW can rely
on CIDRA in relation to this contract either. This means it wouldnt produce a fair and
reasonable outcome to this complaint if I allowed AA UW to rely on it to avoid the policy Mrs
R took out in 2021.
This means that AA UW will need to reinstate this policy and consider Mrs Rs claim in
accordance with its terms. The terms say that the maximum amount payable in the event of
a total loss claim is the market value of the insured vehicle at the time of the claim. There
isnt a clause in the policy that limits this payment to the value shown in the Statement of
Insurance. The policy also says the settlement amount due on any finance agreement for the
car will be paid to the finance provider, with the balance being paid to Mrs R. However, the
policy excess will need to be deducted if AA UW do decide to pay Mrs Rs claim.
If AA UW returned the premium for this policy they will need to work out a way for Mrs R to
repay this, which could be for them to deduct it from what they pay on the claim, if they
agree to settle it. AA UW will also need to remove any record of the avoidance of the policy
from their records and any central databases theyve placed it on.
Our investigator suggested AA UW should pay interest on any amount due to Mrs R. But, I
dont think it is appropriate for me to award interest at this stage. This is because I dont
actually know what the outcome of Mrs Rs claim will be when AA UW have considered it in
line with the policy terms. From their claims file it seems likely they will settle it, but I cannot
be sure of this.
However, I do think Mrs R should receive something for the distress and inconvenience of
having her two policies incorrectly avoided. Mr R has explained he and Mrs R couldnt afford
to buy another car, as so much of their money was tied up in the insured vehicle. And hes
said that in order to get around they borrowed their daughters car when they were able to do
so. And, if they couldnt do this, they used public transport or taxis. This, combined with the
upset of having her policies avoided and her claim turned down, would have been very
distressing and inconvenient for Mrs R. She also had to carry on paying the finance on her
vehicle without actually having it to use, which would also have been very distressing. I
appreciate I cant be sure AA UW would have settled Mrs Rs claim if they hadnt incorrectly
avoided her policies, but what I can be sure of is that the avoidance meant Mrs R couldnt
take any action to replace her vehicle, whether this was having had her claim settled or by
some other means. Therefore, whilst I dont think what Id describe as a full payment for loss
of use is appropriate, I do think a significant compensation payment for distress and
inconvenience is. And, having considered the overall impact of the avoidances on Mrs R,Ive provisionally decided £700 is appropriate.
I gave both parties until 24 November 2022 to provide further comments and evidence. 
Mr R on behalf of Mrs R hasnt provided any further comments or evidence.
AA UW have responded with the following further comments:
They agree the misrepresentation from inception in November 2020 should not be 
considered in this case as a result of Mr Rs reliance on the estimate of the value of Mrs 
Rs vehicle by the aggregator site. 
They maintain their position that Mrs R did fail to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation at renewal of her policy in November 2021. Theyve pointed out that 
the renewal documents provided to Mrs R asked her to ensure the policy information 
was accurate and up to date. And theyve pointed out Mrs R obtained quotes from the 
aggregator site in August and October 2021, not long before she renewed the policy. 
The one in August returned a valuation for her vehicle of £77,950 and the one in October 
returned one of £81,905. 
AA UW would not have renewed the policy if Mrs R had told them the value of her 
vehicle was over £75,000.
It was not reasonable for Mrs R to take a median or lower valuation from a valuation 
guide obtained at the start of November 2021 to provide an estimated value of the car, 
especially in light of the information obtained via the quotes she obtained in August and 
October 2021, which aligned with the higher end of the range of values provided by the 
guide theyd referred to. 
They do not agree Mrs R didnt make a statement capable of being described as a 
representation when she renewed her policy in November 2021. And it was 
unreasonable of Mrs R not to make changes to the renewal details of the policy in light of 
the information she had obtained in the lead up to renewal. In view of this they consider 
she made a misrepresentation at this point and they were entitled to rely on CIDRA to 
avoid her policy on the basis it was a qualifying misrepresentation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am pleased that AA UW in effect agrees that there wasnt a qualifying misrepresentation 
when Mrs R took out her policy in November 2020. And I presume they will remove any 
record of the policy being avoided from their system and any external database they placed 
it on. If AA UW returned the premium for this policy they will have to agree with Mrs R how 
this should be returned to them. 
I still do not agree that Mrs R failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when she renewed her policy in November 2021. And the fact Mr R on her behalf obtained 
two quotes which returned valuations for her vehicle at the high end of or above the range 
provided by the guide Mr R looked at doesnt alter my view in this regard. This is because 
having seen these values returned and then, having checked the guide a month or so later, I 
think Mr R on Mrs Rs behalf was entitled to assume the amount shown in the renewal notice 
was around the right figure. 
I say this, because it wasnt too much lower than the values returned by the aggregator site 
and when I spoke to Mr R recently he explained the figures produced by the aggregator sites  
changed quite a lot, even if the quotations he did werent done far apart. And I accept neither 
he nor Mrs R really had any way of knowing the exact value of Mrs Rs vehicle at this time. In addition to this, the valuation shown on the renewal notice was the one produced by the 
aggregator site the previous year. So, I think it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs R to assume 
it was OK. Ultimately, any value shown on the renewal documents was an estimate, which 
Mr and Mrs R couldnt be sure was right and they had to make an assumption. Therefore, I 
still consider Mrs R provided a statement of opinion on it, as opposed to a statement of fact. 
This means Im satisfied Mrs R didnt fail to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she renewed her policy in November 2021. In view of this, it 
remains my view that allowing AA UWs avoidance of Mrs Rs policy to stand would not be a 
fair and reasonable outcome to her complaint. 
As it remains my view AA UW shouldnt have avoided Mrs Rs policy, it also remains my 
view that this caused her unnecessary distress and inconvenience. And  for the reasons set 
out in my provisional decision  I still think AA UW should pay her £700 in compensation for 
this.
Putting things right
In view of what Ive said, I consider the fair and reasonable outcome to Mrs Rs complaint is 
for AA UW to do the following:
Remove any record of avoiding the policy Mrs R took out in November 2021 from their 
records and any central databases it was placed on. 
Reinstate the policy Mrs R took out at renewal in November 2022 and consider Mrs Rs 
claim under it for the theft of her vehicle in accordance with the policy terms. The policy 
terms say that in the event of a total loss AA UW should pay the market value of the 
insured vehicle less any policy excess. So, while I appreciate AA UW doesnt normally 
insure cars with a value greater than £75,000, this should not have any impact on the 
settlement amount due to Mrs R.
Remove any record of the avoidance of the policy Mrs R took out at renewal in 
November 2021 from their records and any central databases they placed it on. 
Pay Mrs R £700 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Mrs R will need to return any premium refunded to her and AA UW needs to work out the 
best way for her to do this with her. It could be that it can be deducted from the amount 
payable in respect of her claim if AA UW decides to settle it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, my final decision is to uphold 
Mrs Rs complaint and I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to do what Ive 
set out above in the Putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman