DRN-4108636
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as K has complained about decisions Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limited made when dealing with its business interruption insurance complaint.
Mr A, a director or K, has brought the complaint on Ks behalf.  
What happened
K operates as an indoor fitness business which only runs group classes. K held business 
interruption insurance with Hiscox for the periods 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2020 and 
1 January 2021 to 31 December 2021. K claimed on its policy for losses caused by Covid-19 
and the Governments response to the pandemic. Hiscox paid for three periods of loss. 
These were its losses from 21 March 2020 to 25 July 2020 (claim one), 5 November 2020 to                  
2 December 2020 (claim two) and 20 December 2020 to 17 May 2021 (claim three).
K was unhappy with decisions Hiscox made in relation to its claim and complained to our 
service. I have summarised these below, along with Hiscoxs response. 
Indemnity period
For claim one, K said that while restrictions might have been lifted in July 2020, its business 
did not return to pre-pandemic levels when the lockdown ended. It said this was because its 
customers had resorted to alternative types of activity such as running and cycling. K said 
many customers continued with these alternative activities rather than returning to an indoor 
activity. K said that some customers did not return due to becoming more risk adverse and 
its business also suffered due to the effects of social distancing and restrictions on people. 
However, K did not think that its ongoing losses were only caused by social distancing 
measures and, in any event, it said that all of these reasons had the same underlying cause 
 i.e. Covid-19. In support of this, K referred to paragraph 287 of the Supreme Court 
judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Business Interruption Insurance test case. In 
summary, K said the effects of the insured event on its business had lasted beyond the date 
restrictions were lifted and these losses should be covered. 
Hiscox accepted that the Supreme Court judgment permitted recovery of losses beyond the 
end of restrictions if the policy terms allowed. However, it said Ks policy sets out that it only 
covers losses which are the result of Ks inability to use the insured premises and not as a 
result of social distancing measures or restrictions on movement of people or gatherings. It 
said the hybrid clause requires all parts of the clause to be engaged in order to provide cover 
and that meant the cover did not extend past the end of the lockdown. 
Hiscox said that by 25 July 2020 the insured event had ended and ongoing losses were not 
caused by the insured event. 
Deduction of savings
K said that when settling its claim for loss of income, Hiscox deducted savings such as loss 
of rent and business rates. However, K said it had spent any savings on making its premises 
Covid-19 secure and thought it would be fair for Hiscox to take this into account when 
settling the claim. 
Hiscox said that the savings K was referring to were not savings and needed to be 
considered as increased costs of working. However, cover for increased costs of working 
were only payable where the outlay had been to enable the insured to keep trading during 
the indemnity period. It said that the changes K had made were an investment to the building 
which were capable of being capitalised and were not solely made to minimise losses during 
the indemnity period. Hiscox said that, given the refurbishments, it did not think that the cost 
of maintenance (which it initially deducted) should have been considered a saving. But said, 
as K had already been overcompensated by it using the incorrect end date for the indemnity 
period for claim three (as set out below) no further payment was due. 
Date which K was able to use its premises again at the end lockdown three
Hiscox said the indemnity period for claim three (which Hiscox accept started on                 
20 December 2020) ended on 12 April 2021 as one to one classes could resume from that 
date. However, K said it did not hold one to one classes and the group classes that it held 
were not allowed until 17 May 2021. Therefore, it had an inability to use its premises until   
17 May 2021. K said, even though Hiscox had already paid its losses until 17 May 2021, 
Hiscox had implied it may clawback any overpayment should any further settlement be due. 
Hiscox said that it had already paid for Ks losses until 17 May 2021.
Other points
K said that the core principle when interpreting an insurance policy is to consider what a 
reasonable person with all the background knowledge which would reasonably have been 
available to the parties when they entered into the contract would have understood the 
language of the contract to mean. K added that Hiscox had not followed the Supreme Court 
judgment in its entirety when dealing with its claim and attempted to minimise the amount 
paid out. 
While it did not think it needed to do anything further in relation to Ks complaint, Hiscox paid 
K £500 compensation for any inconvenience it had experienced while making the claim. 
Hiscox accepted its service had been impacted by the pandemic. 
Our Investigator looked into Ks complaint but did not recommend it be upheld. He did not 
think Hiscox needed to pay for Ks losses beyond the end of the lockdown and he agreed 
with Hiscox that the refurbishments K had made would benefit them beyond the indemnity 
period and so werent covered by the policy. He also thought Hiscox was reasonable to say 
that the third lockdown ended on 12 April 2021.
K did not agree with the Investigators view and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It 
provided guidance from the UK Government which said that group classes could resume 
from 17 May 2021. 
Our Investigator agreed that the restrictions were lifted for K from 17 May 2021 but did not 
think that this made a difference as Hiscox had already used that date to settle the claim. 
K reiterated that its complaint was about the ongoing effect of losses caused within the 
indemnity period. Such as, the clients it had lost during restrictions not returning. K said it 
was concerned that neither the Investigator nor Hiscox asked what the increased costs of 
working were, as without that information it would be difficult to decide whether something 
would be considered an increased cost of working. K did not think that Hiscox had fairly interpreted the policy and had manipulated the meaning to reduce the amount paid on the 
claim. 
Before I reached a decision, I asked K to provide the date that it had installed the 
infrastructure for live streaming as well as a list of the refurbishments carried out. I asked 
Hiscox for its comments on these and I said I was minded to agree with K that its business 
had been impacted until 17 May 2021. I asked Hiscox whether it would agree to refund the 
cost of maintenance and repairs, as it said these shouldnt have been deducted, and also 
asked whether it would pay a pro rata amount for the live streaming infrastructure if this had 
mitigated Ks losses during the period of closure.
K confirmed that it had the streaming infrastructure installed in January 2021. 
Hiscox said that while the live streaming could, in principle, be an increased cost of working 
K had not declared any income during claim three. Therefore, it did not constitute an 
increased cost of working that was covered by the policy. Hiscox remained of the view that K 
could have reopened from 12 April 2021 but said that as it had already reimbursed the costs 
for maintenance and repairs it did not make a difference. Hiscox reviewed the 
refurbishments carried out by K but still did not think these amounted to increased costs of 
working under the policy. 
I let both parties know that I intended to find that Hiscox did not need to reimburse anything 
further for maintenance and repairs as this had already been repaid. I also did not think that 
Hiscox needed to pay for any increased costs of working as I agreed with the outcome 
reached by our Investigator. I said I did not intend to reach a finding on the date K could 
have reopened as Hiscox had already paid the claim until 17 May 2021. 
Hiscox replied to say it did not have any further comments. K provided a response to my 
email. In summary, K said:
Hiscox did not reimburse it for any repairs. The amended offer in July 2022 only 
increased the interest payable.
Live streaming was not used during lockdown as it was not able to use its studio for 
classes. It was making every effort to ensure flexibility when its business could 
resume.
Hiscoxs response is contradictory as it says that K can receive compensation for 
repairs but not the ones it has listed.
It is important for me to make a finding on the date that Ks business could use its 
premises because, if I dont, Hiscox will still have the right to deduct overpayment 
from future claims. 
It wanted to know what Hiscoxs answers to the questions I asked about paying for 
the cost of the live streaming infrastructure and reimbursing the cost of repairs and 
maintenance was. 
Hiscoxs position on when the indemnity period ends appears contradictory.
K thought my question to Hiscox about whether it would pay a pro rata amount for 
the live streaming infrastructure was reasonable.
The general principle that an inability to use should not take away the cover provided 
by the insuring clause is clearly set out in clause 261 of the Supreme Court judgment.
In addition to the mandatory closure period there were ongoing restrictions such as 
social distancing which contributed to the overall loss. All of the losses arose from the 
same source  Covid-19. 
It maintains that its losses continued until the end of each policy period. 
Our Investigator provided K with the information it requested regarding Hiscoxs answers to 
my email. In response, K said:
Hiscox had not previously advised K that it had removed the savings for 
maintenance and repairs. This may be due to Ks accountants changing the figures 
for repair and renewals from £1,185 to £13,759. This means that there was no 
saving under repairs and renewals. Therefore, Hiscoxs claim that they paid for 
refurbishments by removing the cost of repairs is incorrect.
There are four categories in Ks accounts which involve repairs and refurbishment 
costs, including increased costs of working. These are: property maintenance; other 
premises costs; repairs and renewals; and additions. The first three categories are 
posted to the profit and loss account while the fourth is posted to the balance sheet. 
Hiscox said it has not allowed for increased costs of working. These costs were 
posted to the balance sheet. 
When calculating savings for claim three Hiscox used the annual savings for 2020 
but K believes it should have based the savings on 2021 instead. As a result, Hiscox 
has underpaid Ks claim. Because of this, it is important that I make a finding on the 
date K was able to use its premises so that Hiscox cannot recover any money 
against its perceived overpayment. 
To limit the indemnity period to the duration of the occurrence of the insured peril and 
not beyond goes against the interpretation of the policy and against what any 
reasonable businessman would understand when purchasing such a policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
K has made a number of detailed points. While I have considered them all, I am not going to 
respond to each point within my decision and will instead focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues. The reflects the informal nature of our service and my role. 
K has made complaints about acts or omissions on different policies. While I consider these 
to be separate, in this particular case, I think it is more appropriate to address them within 
one decision. 
Indemnity period
Hiscox paid Ks claim under the following clause in its policy which covers losses caused 
solely and directly by an interruption to its business activities caused by:
your inability to use the insured premises due to restrictions imposed by a public 
authority during the period of insurance following:
b. an occurrence of any human infectious or human contagious disease, an 
outbreak of which must be notified to the local authority
The indemnity period as defined in the policy is:
The period, in months, beginning at the date of the insured damage, insured 
failure, when the loss of licence takes effect or the date the restriction is imposed, 
and lasting for the period during which your income is affected as a result of such 
insured damage, insured failure or restriction, but for no longer than the number 
of months stated in the schedule.
As K has said, the starting point when interpreting an insurance policy is to consider what a 
reasonable person with all the background knowledge which would reasonably have been 
available to the parties when they entered into the contract would have understood the 
language of the contract to mean. This is tested at the time the contract is entered into. It is 
with this in mind that I have considered Ks complaint and the actions of Hiscox. 
The insured event was that K was unable to use its premises due to restrictions imposed by 
the Government following an occurrence of Covid-19. It is not disputed that there was an 
insured event which started on 21 March 2020 ended on 25 July 2020. However, I 
understand that K believes that it should be covered for ongoing losses which it thinks were 
caused by the insured event. So, the question for me to consider is whether K suffered 
ongoing losses as a result of this insured event. 
Having done so, I do not think that the ongoing losses were most likely caused by the 
insured event. While some customers might not have returned due to enjoying alternative 
activities I think its more likely that the losses were due to Ks customers being concerned 
about returning to indoor group exercise due to the ongoing occurrences of Covid-19 rather 
than because of the those which occurred in March 2020, or because K had been unable to 
use its premises. K said that it was restricted to 30% of its capacity outside of lockdown 
periods due to the numbers allowed in classes and to provide enough time between classes 
for social distancing. However, I think these, again, were caused by ongoing cases of Covid-
19, rather than the insured event. For that reason, I do not think Ks ongoing losses were 
most likely caused by the insured event.
I have noted Ks reference to paragraphs 261 and 287 of the Supreme Court judgment. 
These says:
261. Second, in accordance with the general principle referred to earlier (see 
para 77 above), the trends clauses should, if possible, be construed consistently 
with the insuring clauses in the policy
287. For the reasons given, we consider that the trends clauses in issue on these 
appeals should be construed so that the standard turnover or gross profit derived 
from previous trading is adjusted only to reflect circumstances which are 
unconnected with the insured peril and not circumstances which are inextricably 
linked with the insured peril in the sense that they have the same underlying or 
originating cause. Such an approach ensures that the trends clause is construed 
consistently with the insuring clause, and not so as to take away cover prima 
facie provided by that clause. 
I understand that the point K is making is that all of its losses were due to the same 
underlying cause. But I do not think that the courts comments here mean that Hiscox needs to pay for Ks losses outside of the times it was unable to use its premises. That is because 
these paragraphs consider how trends clauses should be applied rather than whether 
insurers should pay for losses which occur outside of the indemnity period.
I also do not think that Hiscox has been inconsistent in its position. I think it has consistently 
told K that it believes the indemnity period ends when K is no longer unable to use its 
premises. 
In response to my email setting out some of my provisional findings K has referred to losses 
being incurred until the end of the policy period in 2021. However, for the same reasons that 
I do not think Hiscox needs to pay for losses beyond the 25 July 2020, I also do not think 
Hiscox needs to pay for Ks losses beyond 17 May 2021. 
Taking all of this into consideration, I think Hiscox has acted fairly and reasonably in refusing 
to pay for losses outside of the lockdown periods.  
Deduction of savings
K does not seem to dispute that Hiscox, in principle, can deduct savings for costs such as 
furlough. What I believe is in dispute, is that K spent these savings on making its premises 
safe to enable it to continue trading. 
Ks policy covers it for increased costs of working within the loss of income cover. It defines 
increased costs of working as:
 The costs and expenses necessarily and reasonably incurred by you for the 
sole purpose of minimising the reduction in income from your activities during the 
indemnity period, but not exceeding the reduction in income saved.
This means that, in order to be paid, the expenses K incurred need to be for the sole 
purpose of minimising the reduction income during the indemnity period. As Ive set out 
above, I think the indemnity period in this case were the periods which K was unable to use 
its premises as a result of the national lockdowns. So, to be covered, the refurbishments 
would need to be for the sole purpose of minimising Ks reduction of income during the 
lockdown periods. 
K has explained that the refurbishments it completed were: installing an air purifier; installing 
Perspex panels in shower rooms; replacing and reconfiguring toilet facilities for minimum 
hand touch; install heat tolerant vinyl flooring for studio; and installing basic online video 
streaming system. K also said that it carried out some Covid non-specific work which it 
accepts it benefitted from outside of the indemnity period. K said it would accept a settlement 
for part of these costs. 
I have considered the work that K completed and I think it is reasonable for Hiscox to find 
that these do not constitute increased costs of working as defined in the policy. I say that 
because I do not think that these works were carried out to minimise losses during the 
indemnity period which I believe is the period K was unable to use its premises. Given that 
none of these works could be used during the periods K was unable to use its premises, in 
my view, the work that was carried out was for the benefit of Ks business and its customers 
outside of the indemnity period. Therefore, it is not covered by the policy and Hiscox does 
not need to take these costs into account when calculating the savings. 
As K is aware, I asked Hiscox whether the live streaming infrastructure could be considered 
an increased cost of working if this had enabled K to minimise its losses during the periods it 
was unable to use its premises. Hiscox said that, in principle, it could. However, as K told us that it installed the infrastructure in January 2021 and had declared that it did not receive any 
income during the period of closure, Hiscox did not think the installation had minimised Ks 
losses. 
K said that it was unable to use the studio during that time. While I have considered this, I 
believe that as K did not minimise any losses during the indemnity period through installing 
the live streaming infrastructure, then Hiscox is correct to say that it would not be covered 
under the policy on even a pro rata basis. 
There is disagreement between Hiscox and K about whether Hiscox reimbursed K for the 
cost of repairs and maintenance. Having considered the information from both parties I am 
more persuaded by Hiscox that its revised offer did not include the cost of repairs which had 
previously been deducted because Hiscox has shown its calculations showing no deduction 
for this in its revised offer. 
K has referred to Hiscoxs letter of 25 July 2022 which provides the revised amount in 
settlement and also sets out the new amount of interest which it will pay. I understand that K 
believes that it is only the interest that was added to this settlement but I do not think that is 
correct. While I dont think it was made clear to K, Hiscox has provided its calculations to 
demonstrate that it did not include the costs of repairs that it had previously deducted when 
revising its offer in July 2022. I think the part of the letter that refers to interest is separate to 
this and explains the revised interest on the new settlement offer, as well as the increased 
settlement. 
K has provided further information about how Hiscox calculated the cost of repairs and said 
that its accountant changed the figures it had previously provided. While this might be the 
case, it remains that I dont think that Hiscox ultimately included the cost of repairs that it 
said it should not have used. I think that is fair and reasonable. If K is unhappy about how 
Hiscox has calculated the settlement, it would need to raise that as a separate complaint. 
I understand that K believes that Hiscoxs position on savings is contradictory, however, I do 
not agree. I think Hiscox has reasonably said that K did not make savings in its usual repairs 
and maintenance during the lockdown periods because it carried out refurbishment. This 
does not mean that Hiscox would need to pay K an additional amount for increased costs of 
working, which is different to savings made during that time. Hiscox also does not need to 
take the refurbishments into account when deducting savings.  
Date which K was able to use its premises again at the end lockdown three
For claim three, Hiscox has paid Ks claim for losses until 17 May 2021. Hiscox said this was 
an error as it believes K was able to use its premises from 12 April 2021. I understand that K 
believes it is necessary for me to reach a finding on this because Hiscox has indicated that it 
might recoup any overpayment if any further settlement is found to be due on Ks claim. In 
response to my email, Hiscox said that even if I did not agree with its position on the end of 
the indemnity period for claim three we consider we have likely already met the 
Ombudsman expected outcome and (given the interest already allowed in the offer) there 
should be no further action required. 
The term inability to use in relation to policies with the same wording as Ks was 
considered as part of the FCAs test case. Paragraph 129 of the Supreme Courts judgment 
said: 
The public authority clauses in Hiscox 1-4 (set out at para 111 above) do not 
cover all business interruption due to restrictions imposed by a public authority 
following an occurrence of a notifiable disease. They apply only where the interruption is caused by the policyholders inability to use the business 
premises due to such restrictions. 
The court went on to say, at paragraph 136: 
 an inability of use has to be established; not an impairment or hindrance in 
use. 
The court made it clear that it may be possible for a business to claim for losses that arose 
out an inability to use its premises for a discrete part of its business activities. As such, this 
policy term would provide cover to a business that had been caused an inability to use its 
insured premises, for all or for a discrete part of its business. 
So the question is whether or not K suffered an inability to use its premises until 17 May 
2021.
Between 12 April 2021 and 16 May 2021 K could have used its premises, but it could not 
hold group exercise sessions. While a court might reach a different outcome, I am required 
to reach a decision based on what I think is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. 
And in this particular case, given that Ks business did not provide individual classes I think it 
is fair and reasonable to conclude that K was unable to use its premises due to restrictions 
as a result of Covid-19 until it could hold group sessions on 17 May 2021.
While I uphold this part of Ks complaint, I do not think that Hiscox needs to do anything to 
put things right. This is because Hiscox has already paid for Ks losses until 17 May 2021. 
For completeness, I do not think that it would be fair and reasonable for Hiscox to consider 
the payment between 12 April 2021 and 17 May 2021 an overpayment if any further loss is 
identified as part of this or any other relevant claim. 
 
I recognise that, overall, this isnt the outcome K was hoping. But, having considered things 
very carefully, I do not require Hiscox to do anything further.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part but do not require Hiscox Insurance 
Company Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman