DRN-3449273
The complaint
Miss Y complains that HSBC Bank UK Plc (HSBC) have failed to refund over £18,000 she 
lost as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In summary, Miss Y sent over £18,000 in payments to various legitimate 
cryptocurrency trading platforms, such as Moonpay, CEX.io and COINMAMA using her 
HSBC credit and debit cards in January 2021, where the funds were subsequently 
transferred on to a fraudulent broker (expertcryptomining.com) from the crypto platforms. 
The following transactions were disputed by Miss Y:
Date Merchant Amount Running total
02/01/2021 Moonpay £216.69 £216.69
03/01/2021 Moonpay £57.92 £274.61
06/01/2021 Moonpay £1076.75 £1351.36
06/01/2021 Moonpay £4301.81 £5653.17
06/01/2021 Moonpay £4301.84 £9955.01
06/01/2021 COINMAMA £925.05 £10,880.06
07/01/2021 CEX.io £90.66 £10,970.72
08/01/2021 Moonpay £6452.11 £17,422.83
09/01/2021 Moonpay £808.50 £18,231.33
12/01/2021 (CC) CEX.io £651.35 £18,882.68
Total   £18,882.68
She realised she had been scammed when she was unable to make a withdrawal and the 
broker ceased all contact with her.
Miss Y reported the fraud to HSBC on 23 January 2021 where she falsely told the bank that 
she had no knowledge of the transactions and blamed a third party who she said had stolen 
her handbag. HSBC discovered this was false as they had contacted the crypto platforms 
who confirmed that Miss Y had opened the accounts with them. Miss Y subsequently 
confessed to the story being false and admitted the payments had been authorised, albeit on 
false pretences as she had been scammed. However, HSBC refused to provide her with a 
refund. 
Our investigator upheld Miss Ys complaint. He considered there was an unusual pattern of 
spending, such that HSBC ought to have intervened in the payment to question Miss Y 
about what it was for, which would have prevented any further loss. He therefore 
recommended that HSBC refund the payments made from the £4,301.81 payment on 6 
January 2021 onwards. HSBC disagreed. They said that Miss Ys dishonesty meant that her 
testimony should be treated with scepticism, and that she hadnt provided any evidence of 
her dealings with the merchant. As a result, the matter has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Miss Y authorised the disputed payments she made to the crypto 
platforms using her HSBC debit and credit cards (where her funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammers from her crypto wallets). The payments were requested by 
her using her legitimate security credentials provided by HSBC, and the starting position is 
that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate 
payments to be made as instructed.
HSBC have suggested that the merchant (Expertcryptomining.com) may not even be a 
fraudulent trader. However, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied the merchant was not 
carrying out legitimate binary options/crypto investment trades but were instead dishonestly 
defrauding customers, e.g. by not actually making trades/bets with the money received from 
the clients but simply manipulating their online trading platform to show purported gains in 
order to induce further investments. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I have 
concluded this because:
Miss Y says she was approached by the merchant with the investment opportunity on 
social media, which immediately gives cause for concern as this would not be the 
usual practice of a legitimate and regulated investment broker. The tactics that 
Miss Y has described also sound typical of a scam, i.e. being told by the merchant 
that her investment had made profit, and that she would need to make further 
deposits in order to withdraw her money. After paying to withdraw her money, the 
merchant ceased all contact. This is a complaint repeated across many disputes 
against similar firms.
Similarly, Miss Y was also asked to download remote access software to her phone 
to give the merchant remote access to place trades on her behalf. Unlike legitimate 
traders, all the payments Miss Y made were first paid into a crypto wallet before 
being transferred to her trading platform, which is a typical tactic used by scammers.  
Theres a body of external information available through various regulators, law 
enforcement agencies, government agencies, press cuttings and the card schemes 
that repeat the same tactics used by the merchant. Which does lead me to seriously 
question whether any actual trades were being placed on the outcomes of financial 
markets or whether in fact the merchant was offering little more than a simulation.
There is also further evidence in the form of warnings placed online by scam watch 
websites and forums that warn investors about Expertcryptomining.com, which 
includes accounts of other victims that have shared similar experiences to that of 
Miss Y. In addition, at the time Miss Y made her payments, they were not regulated 
by the Financial Conduct Authority, and neither can I see that they were regulated or 
licensed in any other jurisdiction either, which is also strong evidence that they were 
operating fraudulently. 
Having considered all of this together, I dont think its likely the merchant was operating a 
legitimate enterprise. Ive therefore considered whether HSBC should have done more to 
prevent Miss Y from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank 
should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
HSBC is aware of our general position on a Payment Service Providers safeguarding and 
due-diligence duties to protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published many decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the 
relevant rules and regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
Having reviewed Miss Ys account history, Im satisfied there were reasonable grounds for 
HSBC to suspect fraud, such that they ought to have intervened to have a closer look into 
the circumstances of the payment Miss Y was making. I accept that the payments Miss Y 
made on 2 January 2021 and 3 January 2021 to Moonpay would not have been unusual 
enough to have triggered HSBCs fraud detection systems given their low amount. But a few 
days later, on 6 January 2021, Miss Y made a series of payments to Moonpay in quick 
succession, where she paid over £10,000 within the same day through the following debit 
card transactions:
Date Time Payee Amount
6 January 2021 10:16 Moonpay £1,076.75
6 January 2021 10:52 Moonpay £4,301.81
6 January 2021 15:23 Moonpay £4301.81
6 January 2021 18:38 COINMAMA £925.05
I appreciate the first payment would not have appeared unusual in terms of the amount. But 
when she sent a second payment to the same company for £4,301 within the same hour, I 
think this ought to have triggered HSBCs fraud detection systems. This was an identifiably 
unusual and uncharacteristic pattern of spending for Miss Y which ought to have alerted 
HSBC to the risk of financial harm. 
Therefore, Im satisfied they ought to have intervened by blocking this payment and 
questioning Miss Y about it before allowing it to be processed. But Ive not seen any 
evidence of HSBC contacting Miss Y or blocking any of the disputed payments, despite 
there being several more sent on the same day, which can be indicative of someone that is 
in the process of being scammed. 
At the time the payment was made, HSBC ought to have had a good understanding of how 
investment scams commonly work. And given the size of the payment, and that it was being 
used to purchase cryptocurrency from an online platform, I would have expected the bank to 
have asked additional questions about the context and purpose of the transaction. While it is 
not up to our service to dictate which questions a bank should ask, HSBC couldve, for 
example, asked how Miss Y had come to make the purchase in the first place, and whether 
she was being assisted by a third party in the purchase. They couldve also asked if she 
had opened the crypto accounts herself, as this would have also given a strong indication 
that she was in the process of being scammed. This would have formed part of a reasonable 
line of enquiry to protect a consumer from the potential risk of a prominent type of scam.
Had HSBC asked such questions on 6 January 2021, Im satisfied it would have become 
apparent at that point that Miss Y was falling victim to an investment scam. HSBC have 
raised the point that Miss Y has provided inconsistent testimony and gave misleading 
information when she reported the fraud. 
I acknowledge that Miss Y initially gave a dishonest account of what had happened, where 
she originally told the bank that she had no knowledge of the transactions. She has 
explained that she was panicked and had followed advice from a friend about what to say in 
order to give her the best possible chance of recovering the money she had lost. However, 
while Miss Y was not forthcoming with the truth about the payments after she had lost the 
money, Im not persuaded she would have had any cause to lie to the bank if they had asked 
her what the payments were for before she realised it was a scam.Based on what I have seen, Miss Y wasnt coached by the scammers to hide the true 
purpose of what she was doing. She has also since given a full and frank version of what 
happened and how she came to authorise the transactions, which is supported by the 
evidence and is a similar account to numerous other examples of how investment scammers 
operate. Miss Y has also provided evidence of her interactions with expertcryptomining.com 
in the form of emails and WhatsApp messages, which give destination wallet addresses for 
her to send the cryptocurrency onto once she had made her deposits. She has also provided 
emails of the merchant saying they have received her withdrawal charges. The evidence 
Miss Y has provided corroborates her account of what happened, so Im satisfied she has 
given an honest account.
So, despite Miss Ys initial dishonesty, I consider her testimony to be truthful and compelling, 
and Im satisfied her money was lost to a scammer. So, if HSBC had asked further questions 
and probed for more of the basic surrounding context of the payments, I consider its likely 
that Miss Y would have explained what she was doing and that everything had originated 
from a third party broker, who had said she had to invest further money and pay withdrawal 
charges in order to release the money she had already invested  which would have been a 
clear indication she was being scammed. 
I appreciate that Moonpay and COINMAMA are legitimate platforms. But I think HSBC 
should still have provided a scam warning in light of all the information known to banks about 
the increasing number of scams associated with cryptocurrency at the time.
After all, at the time, there was information in the public domain  which a bank ought to 
have known even if a lay consumer ought not  about the very high risks associated with 
crypto trading, including many warnings of potential fraud. For example, the FCA and Action 
Fraud published warnings about cryptocurrency scams in mid-2018. Regulated businesses 
ought reasonably to take notice of such insight. By the time Miss Y made the payments to 
Moonpay, cryptocurrency scams had risen greatly in frequency and its reasonable to 
conclude that banks, such as HSBC, had also had time to digest these warnings and put 
mechanisms in place to detect and prevent this type of fraud.
By the time Miss Y made the payments on 6 January 2021, HSBC ought reasonably to have 
been alive to the fact that consumers often first purchase a crypto asset or send money to a 
platform, where the money is subsequently moved on to or taken by the fraudster. So, it is 
with this in mind that I think HSBC ought to have probed further about the nature and context 
of the payments Miss Y was making.
In light of this, I think Miss Ys losses were foreseeable to HSBC despite the payment on the 
face of it not leaving the consumers control. And Im satisfied that had the bank contacted 
her and asked relevant questions of Miss Y, it would have been apparent that she was falling 
victim to a scam. In other words, but for HSBCs failure to make further enquiries, it would 
have been on actual notice that Miss Y was going to suffer financial harm from fraud.
 
I accept that there wasnt an FCA warning in place about Expertcryptomining.com. But there 
is anecdotal evidence online of others who have been scammed by the merchant. Miss Y is 
also not an experienced investor. So, had HSBC provided her with a warning it would have 
likely alerted her to the common issues arising in relation to cryptocurrency scams which, in 
turn, would have led her to second guess the brokers credentials and why she was being 
asked to invest more money. The result of this is that it would have likely stopped Miss Y 
from making any further payments on her debit and credit cards. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that HSBC can fairly and reasonably he held responsible for the loss 
Miss Y has suffered, as I think they could have ultimately prevented it. Contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000). 
In this case, I do not think that Miss Y was to blame for what happened. HSBC have said 
that Miss Ys initial dishonesty should result in a finding of contributory negligence and a 
reduction in her total award. But while Im sympathetic to HSBCs position given that Miss Y 
has clearly misled them, it cannot be said that her dishonesty ultimately contributed to her 
loss. Her money had already been lost by the time she gave the false story to HSBC, so it 
would not have made a difference to the amount she lost as the scam had already 
happened. Therefore, I do not think it would be appropriate to make a reduction in redress 
for contributory negligence on this basis.
I appreciate there is also an argument to say that Miss Y ought to have carried out more 
thorough due diligence and checks on the merchant before investing her money. But Miss Y 
is not an experienced investor. She would not have known to check sources such as the 
FCAs watchlist or the IOSCO investor alerts portal. And even if she did, she wouldnt have 
found any warnings about the merchant either. So, even if she had carried out further 
research, she may not have likely found anything at the time that would have alerted her to 
the fact that it was a scam.
Miss Y has said that she was shown convincing testimonials and even spoke to other 
investors who had successfully made money with the merchant, which wouldve provided 
her with reassurance that it was a legitimate investment opportunity. So, overall, I do not 
think Miss Y could have foreseen the risk that the company she was dealing with was a 
scam, and I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that she should 
share blame for what happened. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Refund Miss Y the disputed payments she made from her debit card, from the 
second payment she made on 6 January 2021 onwards (totalling £16,879.97).
As this was a current account, HSBC should also add interest to this sum (less any 
tax properly deductible) at 8% simple intertest per year from the respective dates of 
loss to the date of settlement.
Refund Miss Y the £651.35 loss incurred from her credit card as a result of the 
payment she made as part of the scam, and rework her account to reimburse any 
interest and charges levied as a result, as though the payment had not taken place
Pay 8% simple interest per year on any payment Miss Y made towards the credit 
card balance as a result of the scam, from the date she paid them to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Jack FerrisOmbudsman