DRN-3018743
The complaint
V complains Experian Limited recorded incorrect information on their credit file, meaning 
their company status was misrepresented to a lender  leading to that lender turning down 
their complaint.
V is represented in this complaint by Mr E, so Ill mainly refer to him in this decision.
What happened
Mr E applied for lending but was turned down for it in May 2020 but didnt understand why as 
he said hed always seen a high score for V. Mr E spoke to the lender, and saw theyd been 
given a different, lower, score than what hed been seeing when he checked the reports. So, 
he complained to Experian about this.
In June 2020 Experian explained they offer two different services for companies such as V  
Experian Business IQ (IQ), and Experian Business Assist (BA). They said these products 
are designed to provide a specific service to customers, so focus on different pieces of 
information. Experian said that means IQ will consider information BA doesnt  so as a 
result of this the score given to Mr Es business can differ at times.
Experian said looking at IQ they could see they were previous in late recording information 
provided to us suggesting that V had a default recorded against it. They said as a result 
of this, the score for V was lower, so they suspected this is what the lender had seen. But, 
added the default has since been removed, and the credit score had now increased to a 
positive banding. Experian said theyd acted fairly  as they cant account for why the 
lender turned down Mr Es application.
Mr E asked us to look into things, saying it didnt feel it was acceptable Experian could say 
they didnt update their records in time. He said the difference was there for nine months, 
and what was handed to the lender was significantly different to what he saw. He said 
Experian misrepresented their status to the lender, which directly resulted in the application 
being turned down. 
As is our process, we asked Experian for their explanation of whatd happened, along with 
any evidence theyd like to provide.
Experian said the credit file for V did show a default which may have been the reason the 
application was turned down by the lender. They said they havent stated the defaulted 
account was showing due to an error by them. The default was being reported to them by 
the entity Mr E did business with.
One of our Investigators looked into things. She questioned Experian on whatd happened  
as the response provided to Mr E, and then to us, appeared to contradict each other. 
After receiving Experians explanations, she upheld the complaint. She said what Experian 
had told Mr E, and our service, didnt match and felt theyd failed to provide convincing 
evidence of their version of events. Overall, she felt Experian were likely late in recording 
information which led to inconvenience for V and awarded £200 compensation for this. But 
she felt the lender had been clear in explaining they couldnt say the only reason for the 
issues was due to this, so didnt think it appropriate to award losses Mr E had claimed for.
Mr E didnt think this was reflective of the financial damage caused to the business. He said 
there was nothing obvious that would have prevented the lending from taking place, and had 
it done so, then the projected return on that lending was around £50,000  so thats what he 
felt the minimum compensation should be.
Experian replied saying that a system error had caused Vs credit score to show higher than 
it should have done for a period of time. They said it should always have been low as the 
impact of the default wasnt registered. So, the credit score showing higher was an error. 
Experian added this would mean any lending turned down due to credit score being low was 
done so correctly  and the default was still showing on the account. They said because of 
this, they wouldnt agree to pay the £200 compensation our Investigator recommended.
Our Investigator said to Experian Its not clear why this information has only been
provided after my view, because I asked Experian on multiple occasions about this issue. 
She felt it wasnt appropriate to say V had benefitted from an inaccurate score, as any 
lending needed to be considered based on an accurate reflection of Vs finances. Overall, 
she still felt Experian failed to provide a reasonable service to Mr E, so said £200 
compensation remained a fair outcome.
To Mr E, she explained she couldnt fairly say the lender would have provided the loan but 
for the information provided by Experian.
Mr E said he still felt the compensation wasnt enough  because hed since submitted two 
further applications to the same lender since Experian fixed their system issues. He said 
both of these had been granted in similar circumstances.
As neither party agreed with our Investigator, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id expect Experian to be able to provide a clear and unambiguous explanation when Mr E, 
and our service, raised queries about what happened.
Instead, theyve provided different explanations, none of which provide a full and complete 
picture of what happened and why conflicting information has been given. Experians last 
explanation is that there was a system error resulting in a higher score being reported when 
actually it should have been a lower score. Theyve not provided any evidence to back up 
this new point made over a year after Mr E raised these issues, and several months since 
our Investigator was looking into things. And this response is materially different from what 
they told Mr E in their complaint response (where they appear to be saying theyve failed to 
update a default)  and from what they told our Investigator on the many occasions she 
asked for clarification over what happened while looking into things.
All of this leads me to conclude Experian arent too sure what happened either. Given this, I 
find I also cant rely on the explanations Experian have given for what happened  because 
their explanations keep changing. So, rather than go into the specifics of whats happened, 
Im satisfied based on the conflicting information provided by Experian V have been caused 
some inconvenience worthy of compensation. Ill come back to this at the end.And, given my finding that I cant rely on what Experian have told us  I also cant know 
whether the information given to Mr Es lender was an accurate reflection of what Vs 
financial status was. 
Its possible Mr Es lender was given the right information, and its possible they were given 
the wrong information. But I dont need to decide this.
The reason I say that is because whether a mistake was or wasnt made, I need to consider 
the impact this potential error had. Here, Mr Es lender has said the following:
we are just unable to pin point the exact reason your business does not fit into our 
model as we look at over 100 data points when assessing a business and, after 
Mr E challenged this, they said
however our risk team also noted there was a risk flag element in the bank data 
provided. I have taken a look at the bank statements myself and this could be due to 
the fact the business is overdrawn. As a result we would not be able to guarantee the 
outcome of the assessment even if the issue with Experian was resolved as it is 
possible the other finding in the assessment (such as the bank statement data) could 
still result in a decline.
I can see Mr Es lender says its possible incorrect information from Experian played a part in 
the application being turned down. But I also think its clear from the above theyre saying 
theres no guarantee this was the only factor. Theyve said even if this point is resolved the 
loan may still not be granted.
Ive noted Mr Es point, that in similar circumstances hes been able to agree two further 
loans. But Id need to be fully satisfied that, at the time of the original application, Experian 
did make an error in reporting the information and that was the only reason for the 
application being turned down.
As Ive said above, Ive not fully investigated whether Experian have definitely made an 
error, because Im satisfied Mr Es lender has confirmed the loan could have been turned 
down for other reasons.
I do find it disappointing Experian have given different explanations for something Id expect 
them to be able to provide a clear response on  and for that reason I think V has been 
caused inconvenience. I do understand Mr Es perspective on this, but I think the £200 our 
Investigator recommended is fair.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Experian Limited, trading as Experian, to pay V £200 
compensation for inconvenience.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman