DRN-4233271
The complaint
Mr C complains about how KGM Underwriting Services Limited (KGM) handled a claim 
under his motor insurance policy. When I mention KGM I also mean its suppliers, engineers 
and approved repairers.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
summary here. Id like to assure Mr C and KGM that Ive carefully considered all the 
information we have on file relating to this case.
Mr C had a motor insurance policy with KGM covering his car.
In early February 2023 Mr C drove his car into his garage door, causing damage to his car. 
He made a claim from KGM. 
KGM sent an engineer to inspect his car. The engineer thought that Mr Cs car would be 
written off as the repairs were a significant part of its market value. KGM offered Mr C the 
salvage if he wanted to retain it and get it repaired himself. 
Mr C says the engineer grossly undervalued it. He says that the undervaluation meant KGM 
decided the car was beyond economic repair.
The engineer re-valued his car at £7,500 but Mr C thought it was worth £8,000, having 
bought it about a year before.
Given the higher valuation, KGM decided it could repair the car and it was taken to one of 
KGMs authorised repairers. There was a delay waiting repairs to be authorised and started.
Mr C complained about the lack of progress. The repairer then declined to deal with Mr C 
anymore and asked to send his car back.
Mr C decided he didnt want to deal with KGM further and he asked for a cash settlement. 
KGM said it would pay him £3,292.72 and, if he produced a VAT invoice for the repairs, it 
would add VAT to this. It also said it would waive his excess.
Mr C made a series of complaints during the process. He remained unhappy and brought his 
complaint to this service. Hes unhappy due to three months stress and worry and having no 
transport. He asks for punitive compensation of £3,000 against KGM and that he receives 
£4,875 for the repairs. He intends to pursue the matter further in court if he doesnt get what 
he asks for.
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint and thought it wouldnt be upheld. He said he 
thought KGM had acted fairly.
Mr C didnt agree with the view. So his complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has made a detailed series of comments and questions in later correspondence with 
this service. If Ive not commented on, or answered, his questions in this decision then its 
not because I mean any disrespect. The informal nature of this service allows me to focus on 
the areas of his complaint I think are at the crux of the issue.
This service has no authority to have KGM pay any punitive damages as Mr C has 
demanded. This is an independent resolution service, not a court of law. What I can do is 
award compensation if I consider KGM caused Mr C distress or inconvenience. These 
awards of compensation are not punitive nor are they fines against any business either. 
If Mr C doesnt accept my decision then hes free to pursue action in court and he should 
seek legal advice if he wishes to do this. 
There are elements of Mr Cs approach to this service relating to KGMs responses to his 
complaint. Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity so Im not able to consider the 
specifics of that in this decision. I can see KGM provided its final response to Mr C within the 
eight weeks allowed.
Claim delay
Ive looked at a timeline of the events after Mr C collided with his garage door and I can see 
that the initial engineer visit and valuation took about eight days to be carried out. Id 
normally expect this to happen within a week.
That valuation resulted in a figure Mr C has described as grossly undervalued. Ive looked at 
the report and I can see the valuation was based on trade guides, which is in line with this 
services guidelines.
Mr Cs car was going to be written-off by the engineer because the anticipated cost of 
repairs was a significant portion of the market value of the car. Wed normally say insurers 
are able to do this at about 60-70% of the cars value.
This position was reversed when Mr C pointed out the price hed paid for his car and the 
engineer re-appraised it. Because the value was now significantly higher, the relative cost of 
repairs was lower, so the car didnt have to be written-off.
I know Mr C found this frustrating but the nature of car repairs means that sometimes repairs 
can start and then a car be written-off; and sometimes the reverse can happen as in this 
case.
Looking at the timeline, I can see the second appraisal took some time to be arranged and 
carried out. I can see this added about two weeks to the process.
KGM then appointed a repairer and told Mr C about this. I can see he asked several detailed 
questions about his options at this point, as KGM had also said he could arrange for repairs 
himself. 
Its important I mention this because some of the delays were because Mr G didnt want to 
communicate by phone and felt he could give a faster response by email, as well as keeping 
records. Its Mr Cs choice to do this, but he should realise that businesses might not be set up in that way. What I mean by that is that Mr C complains about the service not being fast 
enough and sometimes the fastest way to get things done is to follow the processes that 
have been put in place in order to handle many customers making a claim.
There was a further two-week delay waiting for the repairs to be authorised by KGM. Shortly 
after this happened, the repairer refused to carry out the work for Mr C. Im not going to go 
into this further here. Its the choice of an organisation to agree to carry out work for a 
customer, or not. I cant reasonably hold KMG responsible for its suppliers choice.
About one week later, the repairer still had Mr Cs car. He then asked for settlement in cash.
Looking at the timeline, I think KMG is reasonably responsible for between three and four 
weeks worth of delay to the claims process  caused mainly by the second engineers visit 
and the delay in authorisation of the repairs. The repairs were authorised almost exactly 
eight weeks after the collision. 
Settlement figure 
Mr Cs car was assessed by its repairer and the cost to repair the damage was set at 
£3,292.72 plus VAT; making a total of £3,951.26.
Its important Mr C realises that his policy is one that pays out on an indemnity basis. What 
that means is that KGM will either repair or pay for the cost of repair of his car. Under the 
terms of its policy it says:
As an alternative to repairing your vehicle, we may deem it appropriate to pay you 
a monetary amount equal to the cost of repairing the damage less any policy excess 
which is applicable.
Because Mr C wanted to arrange the repairs himself, KGMs liability under its policy is to pay 
him the amount it could have paid for the repairs, which in this case is £3,292.72, less his 
excess.
I can see its said it would also pay VAT if Mr C is able to provide evidence of it being paid. 
Its fair that KGM say this, but I would also say that if Mr C is unable to pay for the repairs 
upfront then KGM should step in and make arrangements with Mr C and his chosen repairer 
directly. 
Mr C has asked for a higher figure than this, and I can see during his correspondence hes 
chosen to use various figures provided to him during the course of the engineers 
assessments and the repairers detailed cost breakdown. 
But the fair amount is £3,292.72 for the reasons Ive said above. 
Service
A significant part of Mr Cs complaint is about the KGMs lack of responses to him 
throughout his claims process. I can see hes repeatedly required same-day responses, or 
quicker, from a range of respondents across the companies handling his claim. Ive said 
above that businesses have their processes and theyve been found to work across a range 
of customers making claims. I appreciate Mr C finds that these processes dont work to his 
standards, but that doesnt make KGMs actions unfair or unreasonable.
Ive read the file and I can see there were times when it could have responded quicker, but I 
can also appreciate its staff were trying to respond to Mr Cs detailed questions while trying to help other customers. Mr Cs approach seems to have been to demand he was treated as 
a priority and I cant say that hes acted fairly by choosing to take the approach he did. 
Ive thought about the impact of this on Mr C. I have said above that I think KGM were 
responsible for an extra three to four weeks delay early in the claim and I can appreciate the 
inconvenience of that on Mr C. Ive also considered the slow responses to some of his 
questions. Ive looked at this services guidelines on compensation and KGMs offer to waive 
Mr Cs excess. In its final response to him, KGM say this amount is £250. I asked KGM 
about this and it has clarified that there was an error in this letter and it will waive Mr Cs full 
excess, which is £250 compulsory plus £250 voluntary, so a total of £500.
Taking everything into account, I think KGMs offer to waive his excess is fair and 
reasonable in respect of any distress and the inconvenience it caused him, and Im not going 
to ask it to do more.
Mr C has said he is willing to pursue this matter further in court, and that is his right.
My final decision
KGM has already offered to settle Mr Cs claim for £3,292.72 (plus VAT subject to proof as I 
mention above) and waive his excess of £500.
I think this offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that KGM should pay Mr C £3,292.72 to settle his claim and complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman