DRN-3923181
The complaint
Mr C complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) has failed to verify the existence of an 
account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts leading to this complaint are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons 
for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for the reasons Ive set out below.
But first, Mr C has provided a lot of information about why he disagrees with the opinion our 
Investigator reached. Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has 
been provided, and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. 
Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do 
this. This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.
If theres something Ive not mentioned, or if I dont comment on any specific point, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every detail to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. This is because whilst Ive considered all the detail, I also need to think about 
things overall and as a whole.
I think its also relevant and important to emphasise that The Financial Ombudsman Service 
isnt the industry regulator. That means we dont set the processes a business puts in place 
or enforce changes upon them. My role is instead to consider individual disputes and decide 
if I think the business acted appropriately, and to reach what I consider to be a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
Mr C submitted a third-party search to locate a historic account he holds, which has 
since migrated to Santander. The result of the search returned that no account was 
found. 
Mr C contacted Santander directly. They confirmed the address provided does not 
match that of the details held on their system and to proceed they would need Mr C 
to visit a branch to provide identification.
Mr C has acknowledged from the outset that Santander are entitled to carry out all 
the identity checks they deem strictly necessary. But he wants them to confirm the 
existence of the account in question prior him to complying with their request. 
I agree a business is entitled to satisfy themselves of the identity of any consumer 
prior to entering into specific account related communication with them. They have a 
duty to safeguard clients that have placed their trust in them.
At present, Santander havent satisfied themselves the person they are dealing with 
is Mr C, and theyve explained the information in question that differs from what they 
hold. On balance Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for them to want to do this prior 
to divulging any information. 
Santander have provided Mr C a detailed list of the documents they will accept as 
proof of identity and address. This is the same list provided to Mr C in June 2022 and 
their requirements of him have remained the same from the outset.
Mr C has provided a number of documents to this service, none of which however 
are documents accepted by Santander.
Where a consumer is unable to provide any of the documents requested, I would 
expect a business to explore alternative options. Santander has confirmed they have 
an exceptions process however this would only be relevant if none of the preferred 
forms of identification were available. 
And Mr C has confirmed hell comply with Santanders requirements so that isnt the 
case here. Because of this I find no reason that Santander should consider forms of 
identification outside of their extensive preferred list.
In summary, Mr C wants Santander to confirm and allow him access to his historic 
account. Im satisfied the requirements set out by Santander in order for them to 
identify Mr C are fair and reasonable and to date those requirements have not been 
met. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman