DRN-3189997
Complaint
Mr L has complained about the overdraft charges Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as 
Yorkshire Bank) applied to his current account. Hes said the charges caused financial 
difficulty.
Background
Mr Ls complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She thought that Yorkshire had 
refunded a significant proportion of fees and what it already had done was fair and 
reasonable. So she didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr L disagreed and asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Yorkshire charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Yorkshires charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr L if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mr Ls 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Mr L was experiencing financial difficulty. 
I think its important for me to start by saying that Yorkshire has already refunded a 
significant proportion of the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Ls account during the 
period concerned. And Yorkshires final response makes it clear that this £200 was for 
overdraft charges rather than any packaged account fees. So it seems to me that Yorkshire 
has made an attempt to put things right. But Ive nonetheless also considered whether 
Yorkshire should refund any of the other interest, fees and charges that it added to Mr Ls 
account.
Given Mr L has complained about events from almost 15 years ago, its not surprising to see 
that there is very little in the way of information relating to any contact Mr L might have had 
with Yorkshire at the time. But its fair to say that the majority of the charges on Mr Ls 
account were incurred because of card transactions and cash withdrawals Mr L made. 
There were also regular credits going into Mr Ls account and while Im not seeking to make 
retrospective value judgements over Mr L expenditure, nonetheless there are significant 
amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions account going 
from the account as well as any charges. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr L wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted Yorkshire to doing more. So in these circumstances I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for Yorkshire to proceed with the interest, fees and charges it hasnt 
refunded. As far as I can see, while I accept that the charges wouldnt have helped matters 
(and thats why £200 of them have been refunded) it was Mr Ls spend which was the 
primary cause of him going overdrawn. Therefore, I think that the £200 Yorkshire has 
already refunded is fair and reasonable here.
As this is the case, I dont think that Yorkshire needs to refund any of the other interest, fees 
and charges it added and Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. I appreciate that this will be 
very disappointing for Mr L. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman