DRN-4155895
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, deleted a payment plan 
he had agreed with them and were unreasonable to subsequently default his account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Virgin Money have made mistakes that they should compensate Mr M for, but Im not 
persuaded they need to remove the default they reported to Mr Ms credit file.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Virgin Money shouldnt have deleted Mr Ms payment plan and that meant he received an 
unnecessary call in May to check his ability to pay. They also kept Mr M waiting for a 
decision on the complaint he subsequently raised. I think both of those issues would have 
caused Mr M distress and inconvenience. Virgin Money offered to pay Mr M £100 in 
compensation, but I dont think that was enough, and Id agree with our investigator that they 
should increase that to £250.
Mr Ms account was defaulted in November 2022 because he hadnt made payment to his 
account. Virgin Money have now supplied the default letter they sent to Mr M, that explained 
he was £511.85 in arrears. While Mr M says he didnt receive that letter, I can see it was 
correctly addressed and I think its therefore more likely than not that it was sent. Hed not 
made a payment since June 2022 and in those circumstances, I think the decision to default 
the account was a reasonable one.
While Virgin Money were clearly wrong to delete the payment plan agreed in March 2022, 
the arrears were cleared in full by Mr M in May 2022, so I dont think that error had an impact 
on the eventual decision to default the account, or that the mistake would be a reason to 
suggest the account shouldnt have been defaulted.
Putting things right
Virgin Money should pay Mr M £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by their delayed response. But I dont think they were wrong to default the account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Clydesdale Bank Plc 
to pay Mr M £250 in compensation, less £100 if they have already paid that to Mr M in line 
with their final response letter of March 2023. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman