DRN-3521041
The complaint
Mr J complains Santander UK plc (Santander) unfairly registered a missed payment marker 
on his credit file.
What happened
Mr J says following a difficult time financially for him and the expiry of an agreed Covid 
payment holiday, he attempted to arrange to set up a direct debit for his monthly loan 
payments but was unable to do so, as he couldnt pass Santanders security questions. Mr J 
says he subsequently discovered Santander had marked a missed payment marker on his 
credit file, although it had never previously informed him he had missed any loan payments. 
Mr J says he had paid his monthly payments manually and on each month they were due. 
Mr J says Santanders actions have prevented him consolidating his debts with other 
lenders, to reduce his monthly outgoings and this has been a stressful time for him. Mr J 
wants Santander to clear the marker on his credit file.
Santander says it did write to Mr J informing him he had missed a contractual monthly loan 
payment (CMP) in January 2021 and what the consequences would be. Santander says 
given the January 2021 payment was late, it had acted fairly when registering this with the 
credit reference agencies and this was clear in its loan terms and conditions. Santander says 
it has no record of Mr J contacting them before this time, to set up a direct debit payment for 
his CMP. 
Mr J wasnt happy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says he couldnt see that Santander were at fault for registering the late 
payment on Mr Js credit file, as January 2021s payment was more than 14 days late. The 
investigator says there was no evidence that Mr J had attempted to previously set up a direct 
debit for the CMPs.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision.  
I was sorry to here Mr J had been experiencing financial difficulties and this must have been 
a difficult time for him. When looking at this complaint I will consider if Santander acted fairly 
when it registered a missed payment marker on his credit file, in January 2021.
The first thing to say is I have to take into account the fact this happened during the Covid 
pandemic, which affected both businesses and customers alike. 
Mr Js complaint centres around Santander registering a missed payment marker on his 
credit file in January 2021, and furthermore he was never informed that he had missed that 
payment. Mr J says he did make the January 2021 CMP albeit late, but this in part was down 
to the fact Santander wouldnt allow him to set up a direct debit when dealing with them over 
the telephone. Mr J also says Santanders actions have made it difficult for him to obtain 
preferential credit terms elsewhere. 
I understand the points Mr J makes but its important to say here, that it remains Mr Js 
responsibility to ensure he makes his CMPs on time, in line with the terms and conditions of 
the loan agreement he signed. Whilst Mr J says he never received any communication from 
Santander regarding any missed CMPs, I have seen a copy of a letter dated 8 January 2021 
which does inform him of this. I cant hold Santander responsible for that letter not being 
received and in all likelihood this may well be because of the difficulties with the postal 
service during the Covid pandemic, a point that Santander acknowledged in a phone call 
with Mr J in late January 2021.
In that same call, Mr J did attempt to set up a direct debit for his CMPs but he wasnt able to 
answer the security questions and it was agreed the direct debit mandate would be sent in 
the post. What is important here is this telephone conversation took place after the loan 
payment for January 2021 was eventually paid, and Mr J hasnt provided this service with 
any evidence to show he had attempted to arrange this before that date. 
From the information that has been provided to this service, by both parties, its fair to say 
the January 2021 CMP wasnt received until mid -January 2021, when it had been agreed it 
was to be made on the first of each month. Santander have told this service the reason for 
the missed payment marker was down to the fact Mr J hadnt made the January 2021 
payment within 14 days of its due date. But this is where I have an issue with Santanders 
reasoning for marking Mr Js credit file.
I say this because I have looked at the CMPs made into the loan account before and post 
the Covid payment holiday, agreed by Santander and it shows on more than one occasion 
Mr J had made payments after 14 days of its due date. From the information provided by 
Santander in April 2020, June 2020, July 2020 and November 2020 CMPs were received 
beyond the 14 days of the due date but not recorded on Mr Js credit file. 
So, its reasonable to say there is no consistency here with what Santander have told this 
service, when it says previous late payments had been received within an acceptable period 
of time, less than two weeks after- but some hadnt. What is important here is the January 
2021 CMP was received by Santander on 14 January 2021, which means it was received 
within its own stated tolerance period. 
So with that in mind, its not clear why Santander have on this occasion decided to register a 
missed payment on Mr Js credit file bearing in mind what it has previously said and allowed. 
I have to take into account Santander have shown forbearance with Mr Js overall financial 
situation here, so I wont be proposing any compensation payment. Additionally, I cant say 
that one missed payment marker would be the sole reason why Mr J was unable to gain 
preferential credit terms or refinancing with other lenders. I say this because lenders would 
look at various criteria before deciding upon the provision of credit facilities. 
But given the circumstances here, I am satisfied a fair outcome would be for Santander to 
remove the missed payment marker on Mr Js credit file for January 2021, for the reasons I 
have already given. While Santander will be disappointed with my provisional decision, I am satisfied this is a fair 
outcome.
Both Mr J and Santander responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been 
passed back to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mr J and Santander until 23 June 2022 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision. Mr J and Santander have both come back with further comments which I will now 
address. 
Mr J says as a result of the missed payment marker on his credit file, he was forced into 
taking a five-year mortgage deal costing him extra each month. While I understand what Mr 
J says here, as I said in my provisional decision, I cant say a missed payment on his credit 
file would be the sole reason why a lender wouldnt offer preferential mortgage terms, as 
various other criteria is also taken into consideration on any mortgage application. 
Santander didnt agree with my provisional decision and says it has a responsibility to report 
true and accurate information to the credit reference agencies, and because Mr J hadnt 
made the payment on time in January 2021 it was correct to report it. Santander have also 
detailed how it reports any arrangements during a Covid payment holiday, but on this point 
Im satisfied that isnt relevant to the January 2021 late payment, as this was after that 
payment holiday had expired in September 2020. 
While I accept Santander have a responsibility to record accurate data to the credit 
reference agencies, where I have an issue is why on this occasion Santander decided to 
report it having told this service the following :
However, when the interest due date for January 2021 fell on the 1st the payment was not  
received until the 15th, which has generated adverse data.
This is why I felt Santander hadnt followed its own previous set criteria for recording 
late/missed payments, as the payment was received on the 14 January 2021 and not the 15 
January 2021 as it stated, so it would have been within the 14 days Santander previously 
told this service was acceptable. Santander advised this service that previous late payments 
had avoided any adverse data because they were received within two weeks after the due 
date. 
As far as being consistent on this, as I explained in my provisional decision, what I meant by 
that was Santander had also allowed for payments to be made beyond 14 days of the due 
payment date previously in April 2020, June 2020, July 2020 and November 2020, without 
any adverse data being recorded. 
So here, while Santander have provided suitable forbearance to Mr J, I am satisfied the 
January 2021 payment was made within the 14 days it has told this service was within its 
own tolerance period and as it had previously allowed. With this in mind, I see no reason to 
change or amend my provisional decision, and so my final decision remains the same. Putting things right
I instruct Santander UK plc to remove the January 2021 missed payment marker on Mr Js 
credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Santander UK plc to remove the January 2021 missed payment marker on Mr Js 
credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman