DRN-2064888
The complaint
Ms W has complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) mis-sold her two fee-paying 
Privilege accounts. One in August 2006 and the other in April 2009.
Ms W says they were mis-sold as she says she was not given enough information about the 
benefits that the accounts came with, such as the age limit for the travel insurance.
What happened
One of our adjudicators considered what Ms W and Co-op had said and they concluded that 
the accounts had not been mis-sold.
Ms W disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to packaged bank accounts on our website and Ive used that 
to help me decide this case. And having considered everything provided, I dont think the 
fee-paying Privilege accounts were mis-sold. I will explain why.
Ms W first upgraded to the Privilege account after holding a fee- free account for a number 
of years. So I think that she was aware that she did not have to agree to the accounts if she 
did not wish to do so. Moreover, Ms W has not said that she did not have a fair choice in 
taking out these accounts. Her concerns relate more to the information she was provided 
during the sales themselves.
Co-op was required to give Ms W important information about the accounts, so she 
understood what she was agreeing to. And Ms W has said she was not given the full details 
of the travel insurance.
Unfortunately, there is very little evidence to indicate what was discussed during the sales. 
So I cant say that Co-op did everything it shouldve in terms of providing Ms W with all of the 
important information that it shouldve. 
But Im not persuaded that Ms W wouldve been put off from agreeing to the accounts, had 
Co-op given her more information during the sales. I say this as I can see a sample of the 
letter that Co-op send after the upgrade for her first sale and a copy of the actual letter Co-
op sent to Ms W shortly after the sales. They explained the monthly cost of the account. 
They also explained that the account provided worldwide family travel cover and reminded 
Ms W to check the exclusions relating to pre-existing medical conditions. The letter also 
explained that the first £100 of her overdraft was interest free (£200 for the second upgrade).
Therefore, whilst this letter may not have gone into detail about all the terms and exclusions, 
it did point out that the account included travel insurance and an overdraft benefit and Ms W 
chose to keep the account. Ms W has also indicated that she did want the travel insurance 
cover.
I note Ms Ws concerns in relation to the travel insurance cover only being available to her 
until she was 80. And I can see that these letters did not set this out. But given that she did 
not reach this age until recently and given that her account was downgraded the same 
month that she reached the age of 80, I think Its unlikely Ms W wouldve taken a different 
course of action had the age limit been made clearer during the sales call. And I cant see 
that Ms W has lost out from not knowing about the age limit either.
I note Ms W has said that she recently could not use the travel insurance due to medical 
issues but ultimately that does not mean that the accounts were mis-sold in the first 
instance. If Ms W did not want to continue with the account the she was able to downgrade it 
if she wished to. 
I can see that Ms W has said that, given that she is a loyal customer, Co-op should consider 
awarding a monetary gesture of goodwill. My role though is to look into disputes between 
individuals and financial institutions and award compensation if the financial institution has 
made a mistake which causes an individual to suffer a loss. In this instance I dont think that 
these accounts were mis-sold, or at the very least that Ms W has suffered a loss from any 
potential wrongdoing. So I cant ask Co-op to make an award of compensation.
I understand that this will be frustrating to Ms W, as maybe with hindsight, she does not think 
that these accounts provided value for money. But this does not mean that they were mis-
sold in the first instance, or that Co-op was wrong to have sold them to her when it did. As 
such, taking everything into account, I dont think the Privilege accounts were mis-sold.
 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman