DRN-3815373
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Novia Financial Plc (Novia) sold the investments held in her late 
husbands Self Invested Personal Pension Plan (SIPP) without notification, resulting in 
investment losses pending the transfer of the funds to her own SIPP. She would like 
compensation for the losses incurred.
What happened
The beneficiary of Mr Ws SIPP was his wife, Mrs W. Mr W died in September 2020 and 
Novia was notified of this by his and Mrs Ws financial adviser (adviser) on 26 October 2020. 
Novia held an expression of wish form (EOW) completed by Mr W, which nominated Mrs W 
as the sole beneficiary of his SIPP. Novia asked if this was the last EOW and the adviser 
confirmed that it was on 26 November 2020, along with various other details. The adviser 
asked that Novia confirm the next steps to transfer the pension to Mrs W.
Novia didnt reply to the adviser. Instead it wrote to Mrs W on 27 November 2020 (the date 
on the copy of this letter provided has been redacted, but Novia has confirmed it wrote on 
this day). The letter confirmed that having considered all the information we have gathered 
(that provided by the adviser) it was now in a position to make available to you the benefits 
from Mr Ws SIPP. It said the:
current valuation is £xxx though this may vary before you make a decision. 
Novia asked Mrs W to decide how she wished to receive the benefits from several options, 
and to return the enclosed form to proceed. It recommended that she take independent 
advice. It didnt provide the adviser with a copy of this letter or advise that it had been sent. 
The adviser says it contacted Novia for updates on a decision on the EOW, but that it 
wouldnt share any information. The adviser says it continued to press for further information 
and whilst preparing for a review meeting with Mrs W became aware that the investments 
within Mr Ws SIPP had been sold to cash on 26 November 2020. The adviser says this 
resulted in an investment loss of around £35,000 compared to what the portfolio would have 
been worth had it not been sold. 
On discovering this, the adviser liaised with Mrs W and emailed Novia a letter from her on 20 
January 2020 requesting the transfer of the funds into her own SIPP with Novia. This was 
processed the next day. 
Mrs W complained to Novia about the losses she says were incurred. She said it hadnt 
advised her or the adviser that the investments had been sold or been sent contract notes 
showing the trades. Novia rejected her complaint. It said it had followed its standard process 
in selling down the investments once it had decided on who the beneficiary would be. It said 
this was to avoid any potential delays once Mrs W had chosen which option she wanted. It 
said its:
normal experience was that we receive confirmation of the options elected shortly 
after we send the options to the beneficiaries
Novia said it avoided chasing beneficiaries for replies out of sensitivity.
It said its procedure was to communicate with beneficiaries directly, so it hadnt contacted 
the adviser. But it said it had kept Mrs W informed and thought it had communicated clearly 
with her and was satisfied that our processes are in line with our terms and conditions. 
Mrs W referred her complaint to our service. She said if shed known her late husbands 
investments had been sold to cash she would have reacted immediately as she had missed 
out on the rebound in investment markets. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and he decided to uphold it. 
He said he could understand why Novia had decided to sell the investment portfolio once the 
decision had been made that Mrs W would receive the benefits. But that it had done nothing 
to subsequently pursue the matter. He said the sensitivity of the issue made it more 
important that some follow up be made, particularly with the pension proceeds being 
uninvested. And it could have contacted Mrs W or the adviser about the outstanding 
instruction, as the situation could have continued indefinitely otherwise.  
Our investigator said Novia should backdate the transfer to 4 December 2020, this being a 
reasonable period of time for it to have checked how she wished to proceed after it had 
written to her. He said Novia should check how Mrs W had invested the funds and calculate 
what growth would have been achieved. If any growth had been lost out on it should be 
added to Mrs Ws pension plan.
Mrs W said she agreed with our investigator. Novia disagreed and said it would provide 
further details to explain its position, but it hasnt done so.
As Novia doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I issued my provision decision on 11 October 2022; I explained the reasons why I was 
planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
This complaint was originally brought by Mr Ws estate. But Mr Ws death benefits were held 
in Trust by Novia and so werent part of his estate. And once Novia had decided to pass the 
benefits to Mrs W the funds became hers. So, any investment loss incurred, or distress and 
inconvenience suffered was also Mrs Ws rather than the estates. Accordingly, I have 
amended the complainant to be Mrs W rather than her late husbands estate. This doesnt 
change the facts of the complaint. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to 
uphold the complaint. 
Our service doesnt regulate financial businesses and it isnt my role to tell Novia to change 
its administration procedures, but I can consider whether these have resulted in an unfair 
outcome. And I think they have here.
Novia has argued it has followed its processes in line with its terms and conditions (T&Cs). 
These say Novia:may pay all or part of any death benefit from your SIPP in any way we deem fit.
And:
On receipt of satisfactory evidence of death from your personal representatives, we 
will have the right to act at our discretion
Death benefits from pensions are usually discretionary for tax reasons, so expressions like 
these arent unusual. However, the T&Cs, and its letter to Mrs W, dont say anything about 
the standard process being to sell down investments pending a reply from the beneficiary.
Novia says that when Mr W died the advisory relationship for his SIPP with the adviser 
ended. And this is why the adviser wasnt updated about what was happening, even though 
it had provided the information which Novia was confident enough about to act on. It has 
also said that it doesnt follow up with beneficiaries through concerns about distressing them.  
I dont think the procedure to automatically sell investments to cash once death benefits had 
been allocated is unreasonable in itself. Some beneficiaries will want to receive the funds 
directly and immediately moving to cash might save several days in this scenario. But not all 
beneficiaries will have the same requirements. And Mrs W wanted the benefits transferred to 
her own pension as the adviser informed Novia on 26 November 2020. So, by implication I 
think its fair to say she wanted the funds to remain invested.  
I think Novia should have told Mrs W that the investments in Mr Ws SIPP had been sold 
given the specific circumstances of what Mrs W wanted to do and the fact that Novia, 
reasonably, should have known this. Had Novia told her what was happening the issue could 
have been resolved sooner.
Novia didnt respond to the advisers email of 26 November 2020, which I dont think was the 
best approach here.  If Novia couldnt act on the advisers instructions regarding Mrs Ws 
wishes and couldnt provide specific information about processes then I think it should have 
told the adviser this and that it required instructions from Mrs W. Especially as she was also 
a client of the adviser, holding her own SIPP with Novia as the adviser had confirmed. 
Novia initially seemed to accept this itself. In an email to the adviser of 20 January 2021, it 
says that a staff member had made an error in not discussing matters with the adviser once 
her late husbands benefits had been made available to Mrs W. That would be from 27 
November 2020. It also said: 
From a customer service perspective there would have been no harm in responding 
to your email of the 26 November 2020 to generically advise of the next steps  and 
I apologise that this information was not forthcoming. 
Had Novia done so, again I think any potential loss could have been largely averted. Instead 
Mrs W had no reason to think that the funds didnt remain invested in a similar portfolio to 
her own SIPP. So, theres no doubt that Mrs W was happy for these funds to remain 
invested. Had Novia advised that the assets were now in cash I think Mrs W would have 
taken immediate action and would have promptly re-invested the funds. 
Mrs W and her adviser believe the investment loss resulting from selling to cash is in the 
region of £35,000. Had Novia advised Mrs W what had been done with the funds any 
confusion could have been avoided and time out of investment markets minimised. So, if a 
loss has been suffered, I think its fair that Mrs W be compensated for it.Once Mrs W was made aware of the issue she acted immediately and Novia was able to 
make the transfer to her own plan within a day of being told to do so. Novia wrote with the 
options available on 27 November 2020. Had it confirmed the investments had been 
switched to cash in this letter I think Mrs W would have responded equally as promptly and 
contacted Novia at the first opportunity. The next working day was 1 December 2020, so I 
think its fair that Novia should backdate the transfer to 2 December 2020. 
Ive also thought about the distress and inconvenience that has been caused to Mrs W by 
what has happened. Whilst she was initially unaware of what had been done with the 
investments Novias lack of communication resulted in her being advised of a large potential 
loss which could have been avoided. This caused her distress and inconvenience over an 
extended period and I think its fair that compensation of £250 be paid in respect of this.  
Putting things right
I think Novia should undertake a calculation to establish whether an investment loss has 
been suffered by Mrs W. 
It should check how Mrs W invested the funds in January 2021. And then calculate the value 
of the death benefits transferred assuming these had been invested in the same way on 2 
December 2020, to the date I issue my final decision and compare this to the actual value of 
the investments on the same date, allowing for any benefits or withdrawals Mrs W may have 
taken in the interim. 
If the value calculated is greater than the actual value, there has been a loss and it should 
be paid to Mrs Ws SIPP or to her personally as she prefers. The death benefits received 
from Mr Ws pension are normally payable to Mrs W free of income tax. Should Novia 
conclude that there will be any tax consequences of now making a further payment in 
respect of this investment loss it should gross up the payment to reflect the impact of any 
taxation on Mrs W. Mrs W may need to provide Novia with details of her other taxable 
income in respect of this. 
Mrs W has suffered unnecessary distress and inconvenience because of what has 
happened. I think Novia should pay her £250 in compensation for this.
If Novia does not make the payments within 28 days of when we tell it Mrs W accepts my 
final decision it should add interest at 8% per year simple until it does make the payments.
Response to provisional decision
Mrs W accepted my provisional decision and said that she would prefer the compensation 
for any investment loss incurred to be paid to her personally rather than into her SIPP. 
Novia also accepted my provisional decision and said it had started the calculations to 
establish if a loss had been incurred. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint.I dont think Novia communicated with Mrs W clearly. It was provided with instructions by her 
adviser and if it couldnt act on these, I think it should have confirmed this to both Mrs W and 
the adviser. And I think it should have informed Mrs W what had been done with her 
investments.  
So, I dont think Mrs W was treated fairly and if an investment loss has been suffered, I think 
its reasonable that Novia compensate her for it, putting her back in the position she should 
have been in. 
I also think Mrs W was caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience because of what 
happened, and its fair that she be compensated for this. 
Putting things right
Novia should undertake a calculation to establish whether an investment loss has been 
suffered by Mrs W. It should check how Mrs W invested the funds in January 2021. And then 
calculate the value of the death benefits transferred assuming these had been invested in 
the same way on 2 December 2020, and compare this to the actual value of the investments 
on the date of this final decision, allowing for any benefits or withdrawals Mrs W may have 
taken in the interim. 
If the value calculated is greater than the actual value, there has been a loss and it should 
be paid directly to Mrs W. Benefits from her late husbands pension would normally be 
payable tax free. If Novia concludes that tax is payable on this compensation payment, it 
should gross up the payment to reflect the impact of tax. So, that Mrs W is in the same 
overall position that she would have been in. Mrs W has said she will provide evidence of 
her taxable income if required.
Mrs W has suffered unnecessary distress and inconvenience because of what has 
happened. Novia should pay her £250 in compensation for this, which I think is in keeping 
with what our service would award in similar circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint against Novia Financial Plc.
I direct Novia Financial Plc to undertake a loss calculation as set out above and if this shows 
a loss, pay this to Mrs W taking into account the impact of any taxation. 
I further direct Novia Financial Plc to pay Mrs W £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she has suffered. 
Novia Financial Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mrs W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Novia Financial Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give 
a certificate showing this if Mrs W asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman