DRN-4238605
The complaint
Mr P complains about the service he received from Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) after 
he made a claim under his home emergency policy.
IPA is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As IPA has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to IPA includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In December 2022, Mr P contacted IPA about an issue with his boiler, which meant he had 
no heating or hot water. An engineer attended two days later and established that a new part 
needed to be ordered. The engineer managed to get Mr Ps boiler working but this only 
lasted for a couple of days.
A week after the first visit, an engineer attended Mr Ps property and attempted to fit the new 
part. However, the part didnt fit correctly. The engineer drained the boiler to prevent it 
leaking and Mr P and his family were left without a working boiler. IPA offered Mr P £150 for 
the inconvenience.
Another visit was booked for early January, but the engineer didnt turn up on the date it was 
scheduled for. An engineer attended the next evening at around 9.15 pm. Mr P says he was 
concerned about his children being woken, so he wouldnt let the engineer in to see the 
boiler. A couple of weeks later, Mr P contacted IPA because he hadnt heard back from it. 
IPA authorised for him to use his own engineer and offered to increase its offer of 
compensation to £200.
Mr Ps local engineer said the boiler had been left in an unacceptable condition with no 
indication as to what was required to be fixed. He recommended that the boiler be replaced.
Mr P raised another complaint with IPA. He believed IPA was responsible for him needing to 
purchase a new boiler. He was also unhappy to have been left without a boiler for over two 
months. 
IPA agreed that damage was caused to Mr Ps boiler by its engineer and that the customer 
service it had provided was poor. It offered Mr P £350 for distress and inconvenience and 
£150 towards the costs of his own engineer.
Mr P remained unhappy and asked our service to consider the matter. Our investigator 
thought Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. He recommended that IPA pay Mr P £2,100 
towards the cost of a new boiler, in addition to the £500 it had already offered.
IPA asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
From what Ive seen and been told, Mr P was left without a working boiler in mid-December 
2022. IPA hasnt explained why the engineer didnt turn up to the appointment in early 
January or why he arrived late the following evening. There doesnt appear to have been any 
further contact from IPA until Mr P emailed two weeks later. It was particularly distressing for 
Mr P to be left without a working boiler for so long, given the time of year. He was also 
concerned about the welfare of an elderly relative who lives with him.
Mr P says he wasnt offered any emergency heating despite it being the middle of winter. He 
says he had no option but to purchase oil heaters at a cost of £400.
I think IPAs offer of £350 for distress and inconvenience is reasonable. However, I dont 
think £150 is enough to compensate Mr P for his financial loss. 
I appreciate the policys terms and conditions say that repair or replacement of boilers that 
have been declared Beyond Economical Repair (BER) by IPAs authorised contractors are 
not covered. 
However, IPAs authorised contractors didnt declare the boiler BER. It was declared beyond 
repair by Mr Ps own engineer who said: I found the boiler was in an unacceptable condition 
with parts hanging off, water drained and no indication as to what was required to be fixed. 
In my opinion the boiler is beyond repair, having no previous knowledge as to what has or 
hasnt been done.
Mr P says he was quoted £3,200 for a new boiler. He says he isnt expecting IPA to pay for 
his new boiler, but he would like it to make a large contribution towards this.
I dont think Mr Ps request is unreasonable, given that IPA has agreed its engineers are 
responsible for damaging it. Theres no evidence to suggest his boiler would have needed 
replacing if it wasnt for the actions of IPAs engineers. 
IPA has asked for Mr Ps complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, but it hasnt given any 
reasons for disagreeing with our investigators recommendation. Having considered the 
matter, I think it would be fair for IPA to pay Mr P £2,100 towards the cost of a new boiler. 
This is in addition to the £500 its already offered.
Putting things right
IPA should pay Mr P £2,600.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct Inter Partner Assistance 
SA to put things right by doing as Ive said above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman