DRN-3705500
The complaint
Mr J complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited mishandled his claim on a motor
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Admiral, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include its
glass provider and others insofar as I hold Admiral responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a four-wheel-drive sports saloon made
by a Japanese car manufacturer and first registered in the UK in mid-August 2016.
Mr J acquired the car on finance for which he was paying over £300.00 per month. For the
year from late March 2021, Mr J had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with
Admiral. The policy included a section on windscreen damage.
In early July 2021, Mr J reported to Admiral that the car had a cracked windscreen.
Admiral hadnt fixed the windscreen by 17 September 2021, when the cars MOT expired. So
it wouldnt pass a MOT test and Mr J couldnt drive it.
About a week later, Mr J or his father paid Admirals glass provider £722.14 to fit a genuine
windscreen made by the car manufacturer. But there were further delays in providing and
fitting the windscreen and associated parts. Mr J complained about communication.
The glass provider fitted the windscreen and parts on 1 November 2021. Mr J complained
that he had lost the use of his car from 17 September to 1 November 2021.
By a final response dated 2 November 2021, Admiral upheld the complaint in part and said it
was sending a cheque for compensation of £25.00.
By a final response dated 2 November 2021, Admirals glass provider said that it had waived
£49.72 of the excess payment as a gesture of goodwill, for the inconvenience caused.
On 3 November 2021, the car passed an MOT test.
Mr J complained that he had paid for genuine trim parts for £66.85. He also complained that
the fitter damaged some parts, so Mr J replaced them at a cost of £19.87.
Mr J brought his complaint to us in January 2022.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator said that we have no jurisdiction over Admirals complaints- handling
procedure. Our investigator recommended that some other aspects of the complaint should
be upheld in part. She thought that Admiral didnt handle Mr Js claim fairly nor reasonably.
She said that Mr J had the use of his parents car on a limited basis. She recommended that
Admiral should pay Mr J:
1. the cost (of windscreen and trim parts) shown in the manufacturers latest price guide 
 in line with Section 4 of the policy; and
2. 8% simple interest on this figure from the date Mr J paid for his windscreen, until the 
date Admiral settles this; and
3. £19.87 for the damaged trim parts; and
4. £5.00 per day from 17 September 2021 until 1 November 2021 for his loss of use of 
his car; and
5. £200.00 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr J 
and to Admiral on 19 August 2022. I summarise my findings:
Admiral couldnt source a standard windscreen. So I was minded to find it fair and 
reasonable that Mr J or his father shouldnt have had to pay any more than the 
excess of £115.00.
I found it likely that Mr Js father paid £722.14 including the excess of £115.00. So he 
paid £607.14 more than the excess. I was minded to find it fair and reasonable to 
direct Admiral to reimburse Mr J that amount.
As Admiral shouldve supplied trim parts, and Mr J ended up paying for them, I was 
minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to reimburse him the cost of 
£66.85.
I accepted Mr Js statement that the fitter damaged trim parts, so Mr J replaced them 
at a cost of £19.87. So I was minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to 
reimburse him.
As Mr J (or his father on his behalf) will have been out of pocket for some time, I was  
minded to direct Admiral to add interest at our usual rate.
Mr J felt ignored for weeks on end and he had to chase for progress. He was
irritated by a series of mistakes and postponements. Neither Admiral nor the glass 
provider did much to put things right in their final responses. So I was minded that  
in addition to the small amounts mentioned in the final responses - £200.00 is fair 
and reasonable for distress and inconvenience.
Subject to any further information from Mr J or from Admiral, my provisional decision was 
that I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
to pay Mr J:
1. in reimbursement for the windscreen and trim parts, the following sums:
£607.14
£  66.85£  19.87
total £693.86; and
2. simple interest on that amount at a yearly rate of 8% from 23 September 2021 to the 
date of reimbursement. If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr J a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. in compensation for loss of use of his car from 17 September to 1 November 2021 
(46 days) £460.00; and
4. £200.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr J agreed with the provisional decision. He said it was accurate and reasonable.  
Admiral disagreed with the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that:
Mr J was never entitled to dealer glass.
Had the customer allowed it to fit what was covered under the policy, the glass could 
have been replaced much sooner.
The delays were due to the manufacturer having no glass available in the UK and 
having to source from Japan.
Even if the glass could be sourced sooner, Mr J would still have had to pay the 
difference between non-dealer and dealer glass. 
Loss of use was down to Mr J as he wanted dealer glass that couldn't be sourced 
quickly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the policy schedule, I see that any claim for a replacement windscreen was subject to
an excess of £115.00.
Admiral has changed its policy terms from time to time. The versions have sequential
numbers rather than dates. Admiral told me in another case that the version numbered 020
was issued in March 2019.
Ive seen versions numbered 021, 022 and 024, all of which have a Section 5 about
windscreens which includes the following:
If any lost or damaged parts are no longer available, we will only pay the cost shown
in the manufacturers latest price guide, together with reasonable fitting costs. If your
car is three years old or more, we may decide to repair it with recycled parts, or with
parts which have not been made by the cars manufacturer, but are of a similar
standardAdmiral has provided links to the versions ending 025 and 026 each of which has a Section
4 about windscreens which includes the following:
If we need to replace any glass, we may use glass which is not provided by the
vehicles manufacturer but is of a similar standard and quality. If there is no glass
available and it cannot be reasonably sourced, we will pay the cost shown in the
manufacturers latest price guide, together with reasonable fitting costs.
Mr Js car was over three years old. So  whichever version of the policy terms applied 
Admiral could use glass not made by the cars manufacturer. 
But equally Admiral could use glass made by the cars manufacturer. If Admiral couldnt 
source non-manufacturer glass, then I dont agree that it would be fair to ask Mr J to pay the 
difference for manufacturer glass.
Admiral and its glass provider has said that a standard windscreen wouldve been available 
last autumn.
But, after the final response, Mr J had written a reply in late November 2021 including the
following:
On the 23 September 2021 my father, (the Administration of the multicar policy
made contact with Admiral Insurance to complain about the time it was taking to
resolve the situation, the lack of communication from both [glass provider] and
Admiral Insurance and the inability to source a standard windscreen nationally.
On the same day my father contacted [glass provider] and was advised by their
agent [first name] that they had logged the issue only from the beginning of
September. Further, it was advised that although a standard windscreen could not be
sourced, a genuine [car manufacturer] windscreen and associated trim could be fitted
at a cost of £722.14. As Admiral Insurance would not authorise this payment, an
immediate payment was made by my father. The fitting date of 27 September 2021
was promised.
Ive added the underlining. I find Mr Js complaint is more contemporaneous and detailed
than what Admiral has told us. So I accept that, by late September 2021, the glass provider
hadnt been able to source a standard windscreen and Admiral was refusing to pay for a
genuine windscreen, so Mr Js father paid.
I find it fair and reasonable to say that Admiral shouldve sourced a windscreen in the weeks
between early July 2021 and the expiry of the MOT in mid-September. So Mr J shouldnt
have been left with a car that he couldnt drive because he couldnt get an MOT.
I agree with the investigator that it wouldnt be fair to direct Admiral to pay anything towards
the finance of the car. And I note that Mr J was able to get his parents to drive him to work,
or to get taxis. But thats not the same as having access to a car he could drive himself. So
I will direct Admiral to pay £10.00 per day for loss of use of his car.
There was further delay until 1 November 2021 when the glass provider used replacement
glass that had been made by the cars manufacturer. So I dont accept that replacement
glass was no longer available or that it couldnt reasonably be sourced. So I dont agree with
the investigator that Admiral should pay the cost shown in the manufacturers latest price
guide (as well as having fitted an original windscreen.)
The glass provider said that it waived £49.72 of the excess payment. So I find it likely that
the glass provider had asked Mr J to pay the excess of £115.00. From that and fromAdmirals final response, I find it likely that Admiral was making a financial contribution
towards the windscreen. The final response referred to the difference in cost between a
standard and manufacturer windscreen.
Putting things right
As Ive found that Admiral couldnt source a standard windscreen, I find it fair and 
reasonable that Mr J or his father shouldnt have had to pay any more than the excess
of £115.00.
I find it likely that Mr Js father paid £722.14 including the excess of £115.00. So he paid 
£607.14 more than the excess. I find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to reimburse   
Mr J that amount.
As Admiral shouldve supplied trim parts, and Mr J ended up paying for them, I find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Admiral to reimburse him the cost of £66.85.
And I accept Mr Js statement that the fitter damaged trim parts, so Mr J replaced them at a
cost of £19.87. So I find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to reimburse him.
As Mr J (or his father on his behalf) will have been out of pocket for some time, I will direct 
Admiral to add interest at our usual rate.
I accept that Mr J felt ignored for weeks on end and he had to chase for progress. He was
irritated by a series of mistakes and postponements. Neither Admiral nor the glass provider
did much to put things right in their final responses. So I conclude that  in addition to the
small amounts mentioned in the final responses - £200.00 is fair and reasonable for distress
and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr J:
1. in reimbursement for the windscreen and trim parts, the following sums:
£607.14
£  66.85
£  19.87
total £693.86; and
2. simple interest on that total amount at a yearly rate of 8% from 23 September 2021 to 
the date of reimbursement. If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr J a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. in compensation for loss of use of his car from 17 September to 1 November 2021 
(46 days) £460.00; and
4. £200.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022. Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman