DRN-3142036
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complained about Nationwide Building Society. Mrs W used a cash machine 
to withdraw £500, but said the money wasnt dispensed.
 
What happened
 On 13 October 2020, Mrs W wanted to withdraw £850 from a cash machine. This was 
above the cash withdrawal limit for the account, so she tried again with £500. Mrs W said the 
screen then went cloudy, with just a QR symbol. Nothing else happened, and there was no 
noise, no cash, just the words Transaction completed which then changed to Next 
customer.  
Nationwides assistant manager took Mrs W inside the branch, to use the inside machine. 
This refused to pay the cash saying she had already taken £500. The man who had been 
behind Mrs W in the queue confirmed that she hadnt received any cash. Another member of 
Nationwide staff said that the cash had probably been retracted and it would be ok. But Mr 
and Mrs Ws account had been debited with £500. 
The next day,14 October,  Mrs W returned to Nationwide and completed a complaint form. 
Mrs W had also contacted the police, to ask about CCTV, but unfortunately no CCTV had 
been pointing towards the machine at the time. Mrs W said the police officer was 
sympathetic and said he was aware of similar incidents on different machines.
Mrs W received Nationwides reply, dated 21 October, in mid-November. This short letter 
said that Mrs Ws claim had been declined, because no discrepancy or errors could be 
found. Mrs W complained.
Nationwides final response letter said that the cash machine didnt show a £500 
discrepancy so it declined her claim. It said there had been £10 over when the machine had 
been balanced on 21 October. Mrs W had said that the man behind her in the queue had 
offered to witness the fact she hadnt received any cash, but Nationwide said there wasnt 
anything it could do.
Mrs W contacted this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint. She said she appreciated this was a 
frustrating situation, and believed that Mrs W hadnt received her money  but she didnt 
believe it was because of a cash machine error. She said shed reviewed the cash machine 
activity and Nationwides notes, which indicated that Mrs Ws transaction had been 
successfully completed. The investigator said that she thought it was most likely that 
someone else had taken the money. Nationwides responsibility was limited to the machine 
working, and she accepted the money had been dispensed without a technical fault.
Mrs W remained unhappy. She said the machine hadnt dispensed £500. The screen had 
just gone cloudy and had said Transaction completed. She said shed been frustrated by 
lack of contact from Nationwides cash machine team, and the fact that when it did reply, it 
had refused to consider her witnesss evidence. Mrs W said the incident had meant she had 
lost confidence, and it was important to her to find a solution to what had happened.
 
My provisional findings 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
In the provisional decision, I explained that the starting point here is that the Payment 
Services Regulations, which govern this type of dispute, say that its for the bank to prove 
that the transaction was authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment service 
providers [here, Nationwides] accounts and not affected by a technical breakdown or some 
other deficiency in the service provided by the payment service provider.
So I looked at the technical information which Nationwide provided. It sent us some systems 
information, but all this showed in practice was that Mrs Ws card had been read. It also told 
us it had carried out an audit of the machine, but didnt provide any accompanying details or 
commentary. 
An important technical document which wed expect to see in a case like this is a journal roll. 
The journal roll normally provides us with the key evidence in this type of case, because it 
shows every action which takes place on a cash machine. This includes withdrawals  
including whether successful or failed, various security details, and even the notes 
dispensed, as well as detailed timings. 
  
Nationwide had told our investigator that the journal roll wasnt available for Mrs Ws 
transaction. So I asked why not, and I asked for audit information too. 
Nationwide said that the reason the journal roll wasnt available was because the operating 
system of the cash machine had since been upgraded, so the evidence is no longer 
available. But Mrs W told Nationwide about the problem straightaway. So it was clear there 
was going to be a dispute  and I think it would have been reasonable to expect Nationwide 
to have kept a copy of the relevant key journal roll information in the circumstances. I 
realised there may be reasons which mean that this hasnt been possible here. But the 
absence of this information meant that I wasnt satisfied that Nationwide had fulfilled its 
responsibilities, under the Payment Services Regulations, to prove that Mrs Ws £500 
withdrawal was correctly executed. 
In contrast, Mrs Ws account had been consistent throughout. Shed been clear about what 
happened. And she offered evidence from the person behind her in the queue, and went to 
the police. I thought this indicated that it was more likely than not that Mrs W was telling the 
truth about what happened.
It wasnt possible for me to know for sure exactly what happened at the cash machine that 
day. But Nationwide hadnt satisfied me that its fulfilled its technical obligations under the 
Payment Services Regulations  and Mrs W had been consistent. So I said that subject to 
any comments by both sides in response to this provisional decision, I intended to uphold 
Mrs Ws complaint, and to award her the disputed £500, plus interest.  
I also considered the impact on Mrs W. She had explained that it caused her much distress 
and wasted time. She said that although branch staff were courteous, she was frustrated by 
lack of contact with the cash machine team, who had refused to consider any witness 
statement which the person behind her in the queue had offered to write. She said shed lost confidence as a result of what had happened, and she wanted a solution to the enigma. Mrs 
W told us that she was a long-term Nationwide customer and felt betrayed by the incident. 
Shed said shed lost peace of mind and confidence in Nationwide. So I accepted that this 
had a distressing impact on Mrs W, and I said that I intended to order Nationwide to pay Mrs 
W £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her. 
 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs W said she appreciated my diligence regarding her claim. She believed Nationwide had 
dismissed her claim as opportunistic, with little or no regard to the relevant entries, or to the 
fact that she was a long-term branch customer. 
She said that she was frustrated to remain ignorant as to where the £500 actually went, but 
was reassured by the decision.
Nationwide didnt reply to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered the evidence, I see no reason to depart from my original conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I order Nationwide Building Society to pay Mrs W
- £500 for the disputed cash withdrawal where Mrs W didnt receive the cash on 13 
October 2020;
- Interest on the £500 from 13 October 2020 to the date of settlement, at 8% simple; 
and
- £100 compensation for the frustration, upset and inconvenience suffered by Mrs W.
If Nationwide makes a deduction for income tax on the interest payment, it should tell Mrs W 
how much it has taken off, and must provide a tax deduction certificate if Mrs W asks for 
one. This will allow her to reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W to accept or reject my 
decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman