DRN-4018873
The complaint
Mr M complains that MBNA Limited irresponsibly gave him a credit card against its own 
policies. 
What happened
Mr M held two credit cards with MBNA. He applied for a third credit card in April 2022 and 
his application was approved. Mr M was given a credit limit on his third credit card of £2,900.
Mr M complained to MBNA in late 2022 to say that it shouldnt have given him the third card 
as MBNAs policy was to not give any customer more than two credit cards. MBNA accepted 
that it shouldnt have opened the third credit card. It agreed to refund all interest it had 
applied to the third card since inception and agreed to waive any further interest for one 
month. It also agreed to pay Mr M £100 compensation for any upset caused. 
Our adjudicator recommended that MBNA also waive all future interest on the third credit 
card. This was because the account should never have been opened so Mr M shouldnt 
have been placed in a position where he would have been able to borrow the money. 
However, as Mr M had used the credit, he should pay back what he had borrowed. 
MBNA accepted this outcome, but Mr M didnt. He said that MBNA had lent to him 
irresponsibly and should pay him a greater sum of compensation as well as writing off some 
or all of the outstanding balance. He says this lending decision led to him suffering financial 
difficulty. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties accept that the third credit card shouldnt have been opened, and I agree. 
MBNA has also agreed to refund all interest applied to the account since inception and any 
future interest that might apply. I think that is fair in the circumstances as I dont think Mr M 
ought to be disadvantaged by MBNAs decision to lend to him when its own policy was not 
to. 
Mr M says that some or all of the capital amount borrowed should also be written off. 
However, Im not persuaded thats fair or reasonable. I say this because the majority of the 
capital balance was made up of a balance transfer Mr M made from a different credit card 
held with a different lender. This means that the majority part of the balance was spending 
Mr M had already incurred elsewhere and would always have been required to pay back 
regardless of MBNAs decision to lend to him. While Mr M did make some other cash 
transactions on the MBNA credit card, if I recommended those be written off or refunded to 
him, it would place him in a better financial position than he would ever have been in. This is 
because hes spent those funds and he should therefore pay them back. 
MBNA have also agreed to pay Mr M £100 compensation for the upset caused to him. 
I consider this to be fair compensation in the circumstances. In reaching that view, Ive also 
considered that as part of the overall way in which MBNA has agreed to put things right, it 
will waive any future interest charged on the balance of the account. This means that the 
balance transfer Mr M made from a previous card will effectively be interest free until it is 
repaid, something he was unlikely to have been in a position to do otherwise. So, taking all 
the circumstances into consideration, I think what MBNA has now agreed to do to put things 
right is fair and reasonable.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct MBNA Limited to:
Refund all interest applied to the third credit card account, including any future 
interest that might be applied. 
Pay Mr M £100, if it hasnt already, for the upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman