DRN-4197013
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service provided by Homeserve Membership Limited (Homeserve) 
following an escape of water claim he tried to make under his home emergency policy.
 
What happened
Mr H held a home insurance policy with company A which included home emergency cover. 
Home emergency cover claims are managed by Homeserve. Mr S contacted company A to 
update his address information through company As online portal.
 
In March 2023 Mr S contacted Homeserve as there had been an escape of water incident in 
his home. The Homeserve adviser was unable to verify Mr S address.
 
Mr S arranged for the escape of water issue to be fixed by a local plumber at a cost of £84. 
Mr S also made several phone calls to Homeserve to try and resolve the issue with his 
address, but he was unable to get through as the phone lines were busy.
   
Mr S complained to Homeserve about not holding correct address information for him, the 
cost of having to compete repairs himself, and the time spent trying to speak to someone on 
the phone. 
 
Homeserve responded to Mr S complaint. Homeserve awarded £100 in recognition of the 
upset caused to Mr S because of their phone lines being unavailable, and a further £84 to 
compensate Mr S for the repairs he had to pay for himself. Homeserve also explained that 
as Mr S policy is with company A; it would be the responsibility of company A to provide 
Homeserve with up to date address information.
 
Mr S remained unhappy with the handling of his claim, and compensation offered, and so 
referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
The investigator found that the compensation paid by Homeserve for what had gone wrong 
was reasonable, and in line with what wed recommend.  
Mr S rejected these findings saying I feel that too much emphasis has been put on the fact 
that the address update was not the fault of HomeServe. No adequate consideration has 
been given to their serious errors in dealing with this. There is no mention of the fact that the 
majority of their issues were then caused by their emergency phone lines being down for 
almost 24 hours.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe it has affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S feels strongly that Homeserve are responsible for failing to hold correct address details 
for him, resulting in his claim not being registered on time. Ive considered Mr S comments, 
but I dont agree. Ill explain why.
Mr S has confirmed that he had updated the online portal through company A with his new 
address details. But at the time of attempting to register a claim, there was a mismatch 
between the information held by company A and Homeserve. Ive seen that while 
Homeserve deal with claims issues on behalf of company A- it was company A that Mr S 
updated his details with. And so I dont think it would be reasonable to say that Homeserve 
didnt do enough to verify Mr S address information. 
Its not disputed that Homeserve couldve handled Mr S claim better. Mr S has explained 
how he made several phone calls to Homeserve but still couldnt speak to someone about 
the address issue, and making a claim. It is evident that Mr S has suffered upset and 
inconvenience because of whats happened with his claim. But any award we make isnt to 
punish Homeserve. Its to recognise the individual impact on Mr S because of what went 
wrong.
 
When thinking about the impact on Mr S because of the difficulty in getting his escape of 
water claim efficiently dealt with, I think the £100 paid is fair and in line with what wed 
recommend in the circumstances. Homeserve agreed to also refund the £84 paid by Mr S for 
the repairs completed by a local plumber. Had Mr S claim proceeded with Homeserve the 
way wed expect it to, it is likely that this wouldve been the outcome of any repairs 
completed. So Im satisfied Mr S has been put back in the position he wouldve been in had 
his claim been dealt with by Homeserve properly from the outset. 
I think Homeserve caused Mr S upset and inconvenience in their failure to answer his calls, 
and register a claim. But Mr S has been reasonably compensated for what went wrong and 
the impact on him. So I wont be asking Homeserve to do anything more in settlement of this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman