DRN-3166545
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Lowell Financial Ltd decided to block him from calling them. Mr D says 
that due to his disability, this amounts to discrimination under the Equality Act 2010.
What happened
Mr D originally held a credit card debt with Company V. The debt was sold to Company L 
who now own the debt and Lowell Financial Ltd administer the debt on behalf of Company L. 
Mr D raised a separate complaint with Lowell Financial Ltd relating to how they were 
administering his debt, and in Lowell Financial Ltds response to him they let Mr D know they 
would no longer speak with him on the phone and blocked Mr Ds number. 
On 14 May 2021 Mr D called Lowell Financial Ltd to complain about the person who had 
issued the above response and taken the decision to block his number. Mr D said he was 
being discriminated against because of his disability. 
During this call the Lowell Financial Ltd representative asked Mr D if they could make a note 
of Mr Ds disability on their systems as it appeared he had not told Lowell Financial Ltd about 
his disability before. After initially saying that a note of his disability could be made, Mr D 
then changed his mind and said he did not want his disability recorded.
At Mr Ds request, the representative raised the complaint about Mr Ds phone number being 
blocked.
Lowell Financial Ltd considered Mr Ds new complaint. In their final response letter to Mr D 
they explained Mr Ds telephone number had not been blocked to discriminate against him, 
rather it was blocked due to comments Mr D had made in previous phone calls to Lowell 
Financial Ltd. 
Lowell Financial Ltd said Mr D had, on several occasions, noted his unhappiness about the 
standard security questions he was being asked when he called on the phone. Lowell 
Financial Ltd explained these questions were required in order for staff to ensure they were 
speaking to the right person. So to avoid further distress and inconvenience to Mr D and 
staff, Lowell Financial Ltd took the decision to block Mr Ds phone number. 
Lowell Financial Ltd said Mr D could still contact them via their website, by email or by post 
and they let Mr D know he could choose to authorise a third-party to act on his behalf  it 
appears a copy of Lowell Financial Ltds third-party authorisation form was sent to Mr D with 
the final response letter. 
Mr D didnt accept this and brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered what had happened. In summary, the investigator explained to 
Mr D that the Financial Ombudsman Service did not have the power to say whether a breach 
of the Equality Act 2010 had taken place  rather it was for our service to consider whether 
Lowell Financial Ltd had treated Mr D fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of the case. 
The investigator confirmed the only thing being considered under this complaint was Mr Ds 
concerns about his number being blocked as Mr Ds more detailed complaint about the 
security questions was being dealt with separately. 
Our investigator engaged with Lowell Financial Ltd to put forward that it did not seem fair, 
given Mr Ds disability, that he could not call Lowell Financial Ltd any more. On review, 
Lowell Financial Ltd agreed to speak with Mr D on the phone again, so long as Mr D 
contacted them through their Customer Relations Department on the freephone number and 
agreed to answer security questions. 
The investigator felt in the circumstances that this was a fair and reasonable solution and put 
the offer to Mr D. However, Mr D didnt accept this. 
Mr D said he had been in contact with other organisations and said the Financial 
Ombudsman Service could look at claims for discrimination. He said there was no need for 
Lowell Financial Ltd to block his calls and he asked the investigator to confirm which 
numbers had been blocked and explain why theyd been blocked. Mr D said hed never been 
rude to Lowell Financial Ltd and felt their staff simply gave conflicting information and 
couldnt answer his questions  Mr D said he shouldnt be held accountable for their 
incompetence. And Mr D added he was within his rights to request Lowell Financial Ltd ask 
him alternative security questions. 
Following Mr Ds request, the investigator confirmed with Lowell Financial Ltd, and then to 
Mr D, the details of the mobile phone number that had been blocked. The investigator was 
also able to learn and let Mr D know that a landline number (previously passed to Lowell 
Financial Ltd when Company V sold the account) was removed from Lowell Financial Ltds 
contact information after Mr D asked for it to be removed.
As a resolution could not be reached, Mr Ds complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It may help if I start by explaining the role of this service. The Financial Ombudsman Service 
is an alternative dispute resolution service set up to resolve individual complaints based on 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of each case. The Financial Ombudsman 
Service does not fine or punish businesses, or request that businesses change their 
processes or practices  that is the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
 
When deciding what is a fair and reasonable resolution to a complaint, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service will take into account any relevant law and regulations; regulators 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice and (where appropriate) what is considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Mr Ds complaint in this case is that Lowell Financial Ltd have discriminated against him 
under the Equality Act 2010. 
In light of the remit this office has  which Ive summarised above  it should be made clear 
to Mr D that this office is not a court, so it does not have the power to determine whether a 
law has been breached. That is for the courts to decide. 
However, as explained, our office can take into account any relevant law when deciding 
whether a business has treated a customer fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances of 
the individual case. This means, while being mindful of the Equality Act 2010, in Mr Ds case Ive looked to see if Lowell Financial Ltd have treated him fairly and reasonably as one of 
their customers. 
I can see from whats happened that Lowell Financial Ltd took the decision to no longer 
speak with Mr D by deciding to block his phone number. And that they did this with what 
appears to be no knowledge of Mr Ds disability. 
I cant agree with Mr D that Lowell Financial Ltd needed to ask him if he had this disability 
before they took the decision to block his phone number. 
The Equality Act 2010 requires a business to make reasonable adjustments for someone 
with a disability. Some of these adjustments are considered anticipatory, for example 
installing a ramp to access a building or having auxiliary aids in place for disabled people to 
access services. 
Mr D had already been successfully accessing Lowell Financial Ltds services using different 
means of communication that Lowell Financial Ltd have in place for all their customers. 
There was no record of Mr Ds disability on Lowell Financial Ltds systems. Mr D accepts 
that he had not mentioned it previously, and Mr D had engaged with Lowell Financial Ltd 
using other methods of communication in addition to the phone. So Mr D was not being 
prevented from using Lowell Financial Ltds services. And theres no evidence to suggest   
Mr D had requested any other reasonable adjustments or that Lowell Financial Ltd could 
reasonably have anticipated putting anything else in place for Mr D. 
While a business can try and anticipate a number of reasonable adjustments for their 
customers, it would be unreasonable to expect the business to know if anything more 
specific was required unless they were aware of the disability. It would be for the individual 
to let the business know about a disability and request any other reasonable adjustments 
that the business might be able to put in place for them. So I cant see that Lowell Financial 
Ltd have done anything wrong here in not asking Mr D about his disability before blocking 
his phone number. 
Lowell Financial Ltd had also explained their reason for blocking Mr Ds number was not due 
to his disability, but because Mr D appeared unhappy when he used this method of 
communication with Lowell Financial Ltd. Ive listened to some of the available calls and 
have heard that on several occasions Mr D did not wish to answer Lowell Financial Ltds 
security questions. Without passing security Lowell Financial Ltd said they were therefore 
unable to discuss Mr Ds circumstances with him on the phone. 
I can see why, in light of the above, Lowell Financial Ltd took the step - at that time - to say 
they would block Mr Ds phone number and chose no longer to speak to him. It seems these 
phone calls were unproductive for all parties involved. And Mr D had other channels of 
communication available to engage with Lowell Financial Ltd. So its difficult for me to say 
Lowell Financial Ltd treated Mr D unfairly or unreasonably at this point  or differently to any 
other customer. 
That said, on learning of Mr Ds disability and that using the phone was a preferred and 
easier way for Mr D to communicate with Lowell Financial Ltd, I think it would have been fair 
for Lowell Financial Ltd to review their decision to block Mr Ds phone number. 
Following our investigators involvement Im pleased to see that Lowell Financial Ltd have 
agreed to unblock Mr Ds number albeit with some conditions attached  that is Mr D should 
contact the Customer Relations Department number and that he should answer Lowell 
Financial Ltds security questions. The number for the Customer Relations Department is a freephone number and Lowell 
Financial Ltd have said this would put Mr D through to representatives who would be best 
placed to answer any queries Mr D might have about his debts - so I think this is reasonable 
in the circumstances. I also think Lowell Financial Ltds request for Mr D to answer some 
security questions is fair. 
Mr D and Lowell Financial Ltd should note  like our investigator - I have not considered the 
more particular concerns Mr D has around security questions as these are part of a separate 
complaint, so these do not form part of this decision. 
Taking everything into account, at the time the phone number was blocked, I cant see that 
Mr D was treated unfairly because of his disability. I think Lowell Financial Ltd took steps  
not due to Mr Ds disability  to review how they communicated with him, and Mr D was 
never prevented from accessing Lowell Financial Ltds services. Lowell Financial Ltd had 
highlighted to Mr D other ways of communicating with them, some of which Mr D had 
already been using, so they didnt have any reason to think Mr D could not have continued 
engaging with them or accessing their services. Im also mindful Lowell Financial Ltd did this 
without any knowledge of Mr Ds disability  so I think its unfair to say Lowell Financial Ltd 
were discriminating against Mr D when they took the decision to block his phone number.   
Since then and in light of what Mr D has shared about his disability, I think its fair for Lowell 
Financial Ltd to unblock Mr Ds number, and I think their offer to unblock Mr Ds phone 
number on the terms above are fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Putting things right
Lowell Financial Ltd should unblock Mr Ds number so he is able to call their Customer 
Relations Department, as per Lowell Financial Ltds offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint that his number should be unblocked, and 
I think the terms of Lowell Financial Ltds offer above to do this are fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman