DRN-3361740
The complaint
Mr S complained that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender acted irresponsibly when 
it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr S took out four loans with Mr Lender as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidInstalments 
(months)AmountHighest Loan 
Repayment
1 9/11/2014 18/11/2014 4 £350.00 £192.50
2 19/11/2014 31/7/2015 6 £600.00 £250.00
3 30/5/2021 18/6/2021 6 £200.00 £75.89
4 18/06/2021 Outstanding 12 £1,500.00 £341.00
Mr S said that repaying these loans caused him problems and led to him having to borrow 
more money. He felt that Mr Lender should never have given him these unaffordable loans, 
especially the most recent which he is struggling to pay. He felt that Mr Lender should have 
realised from the number of times he borrowed that his debt problems were getting worse 
and it was not responsible to continue to lend to him. Mr S said his credit reports would have 
shown all his other debts and problems including late payments/defaults /county court 
judgement (CCJs).
When he complained to Mr Lender, it said the checks it carried out were proportionate to the 
amount of capital borrowed and the results of the checks were deemed sufficient to lend. So 
it didnt uphold his complaint. But, as a gesture of goodwill, Mr Lender said it would like to 
offer support to assist Mr S to repay loan 4 and offered to reduce the outstanding balance 
down to the original capital borrowed and set up a repayment plan over a longer period to 
allow Mr S more time to pay without incurring any extra cost. It also offered to remove the 
loans from Mr Ss credit file once hed paid loan 4.
Mr S didnt feel Mr Lender went far enough to resolve his complaint and so he brought his 
complaint to us. Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr S disagreed with our adjudicators view and so his complaint comes to me to decide. He 
mainly feels that as his credit file shows a CCJ there must have been a failure on the part of 
Mr Lender if its checks didnt pick this up. He also felt that the jump in lending from £200 up 
to £1,500 when he took out loan 4 shouldve prompted the lender to do additional checks. 
Mr S would like an ombudsmans final decision so his complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website and Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint. Having carefully thought about everything Ive 
seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. Heres why I say this.
Mr Lender provided Mr S with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So Mr Lender 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. Mr Lender was required to 
carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was 
sustainable for Mr S before providing it. Our website sets out what we typically think about 
when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Keeping all this in mind, Ive thought carefully about what it means for Mr Ss complaint.
Mr Lender says that, as well as relying on information Mr S provided about his monthly 
income and expenditure, it also looked at information from a credit reference agency before 
it agreed to lend to Mr S. And it believed that the information it had recorded for Mr S 
showed the loans shouldve been affordable for him.
Ive looked at each loan in turn.
loan 1
At this early stage, Mr S didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Mr Lender to any underlying money problems. And I cant see that there was anything in the 
information Mr S provided or the information Mr Lender had, which meant that Mr Lender 
shouldve enquired further into Mr Ss financial circumstances. Mr Lender asked Mr S for 
details of his monthly income and expenditure and this led Mr Lender to conclude, 
reasonably in my view, that the monthly repayments shouldve been comfortably affordable 
for him. It looked like he had a payday loan already outstanding  but this wouldnt be 
enough of a reason not to lend to him if the loan otherwise looked affordable  as it did here. It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or even an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
So I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Mr S took out loan 2 around the same time as he paid loan 1  but I dont think Mr Lender 
had any reason to think at that stage it shouldnt lend to him again or that Mr S would be 
likely to have a problem making the repayment on loan 2. He hadnt given any reason to 
make Mr Lender think that paying for loan 1 was likely to be problematic and hed given a 
plausible reason for needing to borrow more money so quickly.
Mr Lender said the loan looked like it should be comfortably affordable for Mr S on the 
figures hed declared  and I've no reason to think otherwise. I dont think there was anything 
in the information that Mr Lender had recorded for Mr S, or anything else that it shouldve 
been aware of, which wouldve caused Mr Lender to think this loan wasnt affordable for 
Mr S when he took it out or that his borrowing pattern suggested he was in financial difficulty. 
So I dont feel Ive seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Ss complaint about loan 2.
In the event he had some payment problems but was able to repay the loan over a longer 
period through a payment plan agreed with Mr Lender  and Mr Lender also discounted the 
loan. 
So I havent seen enough to make me think it would be fair and reasonable  to uphold Mr Ss 
complaint about loan 2.
loan 3
Mr S didnt ask Mr Lender for any more loans during the period August 2015  May 2021. 
That gap in lending seems long enough to me for Mr Lender reasonably to think that Mr S 
mightve put his finances in order during this period. This meant that when his borrowing 
started again, and Mr S applied for loan 3, he was effectively starting over. I dont think the 
repayment issues hed had when he needed more time to pay loan 2 gave Mr Lender any 
useful insight into his current financial situation more than five years later. So it was fair for 
Mr Lender to treat this as a new chain of borrowing and assess Mr Ss lending requests 
accordingly.
The figures hed declared, and the information Mr Lender had collected, seem to support 
Mr Lenders lending decision. There wasnt anything to indicate that the loan wouldnt be 
sustainably affordable for Mr S or that it was unfair to lend it to him. All the indications were 
that hed be well able to manage the loan repayments with ample disposable income still left 
over after making the repayments on this loan. Mr Lenders credit checks didnt show he was 
over-reliant on other credit at that stage or give any particular sign that Mr S was in financial 
difficulty. In particular, the results of Mr Lenders checks (which Mr Lender has shared with 
me) show that it did check for any CCJ and nothing showed up on its search. So I cant see 
that there was anything in the information Mr S provided or the information Mr Lender had, 
which meant that Mr Lender shouldve enquired further into Mr Ss financial circumstances 
before agreeing his loan application. 
Our adjudicator has explained already that this might be because when a lender carries out 
a credit search, the information it sees doesnt usually provide the same level of detail that a 
consumers credit search will and it isnt necessarily up to date. So, this may explain any 
differences. And at this stage of the lending relationship and given the loan amount and loan 
term, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Mr Lender to ask Mr S to prove what he was declaring or check other information sources to verify what he had told them (or 
omitted to say) about his financial circumstances.
Taking things as a whole, I think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to consider that paying for 
this loan shouldve been affordable for Mr S and it made a fair lending decision when it 
provided the loan. So I cant fairly uphold Mr Ss complaint about loan 3. 
loan 4
I think its fair to say that Mr Lender has already offered fair redress overall in respect of this 
loan. Mr Lender has previously volunteered to reduce the outstanding balance down to the 
original capital borrowed  given that Mr S had only repaid around £377 at the time this offer 
was made I think thats reasonable. Mr S had wanted an interest award, but as he still owes 
Mr Lender money, the question of interest doesnt arise here. In addition, Mr Lender will 
extend the time for payment (without Mr S incurring any interest). And when the loan is 
repaid, it will remove all four of these loans from Mr Ss credit file. 
This goes beyond what I would generally expect a lender to do in these circumstances even 
if I were to uphold Mr Ss complaint about this loan. Whilst the 2014 loans probably wont 
any longer appear on Mr Ss credit report, the 2021 loans will otherwise show on his credit 
file for six years. I think its likely that Mr S might feel that having his 2021 loans deleted 
entirely from his credit history could significantly help him to improve his credit record.
Mr Lender has confirmed this offer still stands. If Mr S hasnt yet done so and he would like 
to take up this offer then he should contact Mr Lender direct to make the arrangements.
Im very sorry that Mr S finds himself in financial difficulty. I accept that Mr Ss financial 
situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided or the other 
information Mr Lender obtained. But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say 
a lender acted unfairly or unreasonably in some way. And, in this case, I dont think that 
Mr Lender did anything wrong in deciding to lend loans 1-3 to Mr S and so far as loan 4 is 
concerned, it has already made a fair and reasonable settlement offer so theres nothing left 
for me to do. 
I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my 
decision. And if Mr S would like help to manage his finances or to speak to someone about 
his situation generally, theres more information about how to get free debt advice and other 
help on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman