DRN-2574831
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with delays he says Santander UK Plc caused when taking his property into 
possession and when marketing the property. He says that hes incurred a considerable
amount of interest as a result of Santanders actions. Mr L feels its offer to put things right
isnt enough. 
What happened
Mr L took out a capital repayment mortgage with Santander of £300,000 in 2016. Since mid
2018 Mr Ls had difficulty meeting his monthly payments and the arrears had grown
significantly. Mr L has told Santander about the difficulties hes faced caused by changes in
his circumstances.
In 2019 Mr L complained to Santander about its decision to take legal action to seek
possession of the property to repay the mortgage loan. Mr L said his ex-partner was living in
the property and hed been unable to sell it because of that. Mr L said he needed more time
to evict his ex-partner who was still living in the property.
Santander gave its final response on 4 July 2019. It said it couldnt put action on hold and
asked Mr L to provide its solicitors with any further details. The matter was heard in court on
5 August 2019 and possession of the property was granted to Santander, within 56 days.
The court also made a money judgment on the amount owed.
In September 2019, Mr L told Santander that hed been to court to get an eviction order
against his ex-partner. But hed been unsuccessful as Santander had a possession order in
place. He asked Santander to exercise their right to repossess the property as itd help get
the mortgage repaid sooner. Mr L explained that he was concerned about the amount of
interest which was accruing on the mortgage. And he asked Santander to confirm its next
steps. Mr L took out a capital repayment mortgage with Santander of £300,000 in 2016. 
During October 2019, Santander told Mr L that its solicitors were looking into whether theyd 
be able to take possession as there may have been relevant rulings by a family court.
Santanders solicitors determined it could proceed with possession of the property and 
eviction was set to take place on 21 January 2020.
On 21 January 2020 the eviction was cancelled because the address held for Mr L was 
incorrect. Mr L said hed wanted the eviction to go ahead as soon as possible. Santanders 
solicitors said theyd look to set another eviction date urgently and that theyd investigate 
his complaint. The next day Mr L asked if he could hand the keys back in the hope this 
might speed things up. Santanders solicitors said Mr L would need to complete a form to 
get permission from Santander to do this.
Santander provided its final response to Mr Ls concerns on 24 January 2020. In summary, 
it said that its solicitor was responsible for the incorrect property address and it had passed 
his concerns onto them.
Santander says it received Mr Ls voluntary surrender form on 10 February 2020. Mr L 
called on 17 February for an update, but there was confusion about whether the form had 
been received. Santander called Mr L back once it found the form and said it would be sent 
to the relevant team to process. It said that it would be considered by the end of the next 
week at the earliest. Santander later offered to pay Mr L £75 as an apology for the delays 
in getting his form to the correct team.
Santanders solicitors responded to Mr Ls complaint about the incorrect address on 18 
February 2020. In summary, it said it had missed opportunities to update Mr Ls post code 
in April 2019 when hed provided it in phone calls. They offered him £200 as compensation 
for the impact of whatd happened, which he accepted at the time.
Mr L called Santander again on 26 February 2020 asking why the property still hadnt been 
taken into possession. Santanders notes suggest that the solicitors were still waiting for 
the voluntary surrender form before they could progress the matter further. Mr L raised a 
further complaint as he felt neither Santander nor its solicitors knew what was happening 
with the voluntary repossession.
Santander provided its final response to Mr Ls complaint on 9 March 2020. It apologised to 
Mr L and said it hadnt reviewed the voluntary surrender request on 20 February 2020 as it 
had said it would. It said the case had now been reviewed and the voluntary repossession 
had been agreed. Santander offered to pay Mr L £600 as a goodwill payment.
The property was taken into possession on 10 March 2020. It was placed on the market 
on or around 15 June 2020. It sold in November 2020 and the mortgage was repaid.
Mr L raised further concerns with Santander about delays in marketing the property. He 
said hed been told the property would be marketed within a week of possession. 
Santander said it aims to place a property on the market within 24 days. However, due to 
the Covid-19 pandemic, no estate agents would have been able to visit the property due to 
lockdown restrictions at that time. Santander agreed to refund one months interest on Mr 
Ls mortgage for the month of May, as its repossession team werent given the go ahead 
until June 2020 to market the property. It said the interest charged in June wouldnt be 
refunded, as the property had been placed on the market by that time.
Our investigator considered Mr Ls complaint. She felt that while Santander and its solicitors
(acting as Santanders agent) had caused some delays with taking possession of the
property, it hadnt acted unfairly in relation to marketing and selling it. And she felt that the
compensation already offered to Mr L was a fair way to put things right.
Mr L disagreed. He felt that Santander and its solicitors had caused considerable delays. 
He says that its actions have caused him a significant financial loss  due to being charged 
more interest over a longer period and because the asking price of the property has been
reduced.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 14 January 2021. In it I said:
Did Santander and its solicitor cause delays in taking possession of the property?
Its unfortunate that the hearing planned for 21 January 2020 was cancelled due to an 
incorrect address being held by Santanders solicitor. The firm, acting as Santanders 
solicitor, has accepted that this was down to its error. Nonetheless, the firm were acting as Santanders agent, and I think it is reasonable that Santander takes some responsibility for 
this mistake. I have taken into account that the solicitors firm has already paid Mr L £200 
as a goodwill gesture for the upset it caused to him.
Mr L clearly wanted to progress the matter as quickly as possible, and hed made it clear to 
Santander that he was concerned about the balance of the mortgage continuing to grow 
with every month that interest was applied. He asked about handing the keys to the 
property back to Santander, known as voluntary surrender, and he was told hed need to 
complete a form to request this.
A period of several weeks was lost due to Santanders confusion about the voluntary 
surrender form once Mr L had returned it. It took over three weeks for Santander to locate 
the form, consider Mr Ls voluntary surrender request and agree to it. The property 
appears to have been taken into possession a few days later.
Santanders accepted that it caused delays in this process. Its explained that voluntary 
surrender requests are considered by a particular team on a weekly basis. But this doesnt 
explain why there were around two further weeks of delays.
Overall, Santander and its agent caused delays which led to the property being taken into 
possession on 10 March 2020. I think its possible the property could have been taken into 
possession in late January 2020 if the initial eviction hearing had gone ahead. Im also 
conscious that this series of delays in 2020 happened after a rather drawn out process in 
2019, and that the whole situation would have been very frustrating for Mr L.
Mr Ls said he was also disappointed that Santander didnt market the property with 
appropriate pace and that it didnt achieve a fair price for the property. Mr L had thought 
Santander would market the property within a week of possession. Ive read the letter 
where Mr L believes this timescale was given. I dont think Santander made a clear 
commitment to market the property within a week. Although, Ive thought carefully about 
whether there were delays in the property being marketed and what impact this has had on 
Mr L.
Santanders previously said that it aims to put a property on the market within 24 days of 
possession being taken. However, it has since changed its stance on this. Instead, its 
explained that when it takes possession of a property it puts up a 28-day chattel notice. 
And that this period is given for a borrower to contact the Asset Manager and remove any 
possessions left in the property. But its said this is the maximum period given and if the 
borrower agrees theyve removed everything they wanted sooner, then it can proceed to 
having the property valued. Mr L was certainly focused on getting the property sold as 
soon as possible. I believe that he would have taken any action within his power to get the 
property valued and marketed as quickly as he could.
Before Mr Ls property could be put on the market it needed a valuation. Three 
independent valuations of Mr Ls property were carried out on 11 and 13 March  within a 
few days of Santander taking possession. One valuation was by a RICS qualified surveyor 
and two by local estate agents. Im satisfied Santander didnt cause further delays at this 
point in the process. But I am of the view that had possession of the property been taken 
in January 2020, as originally planned, the marketing process could have been started 
shortly afterwards  and certainly after Santander was made aware the tenant had left the 
property in early February.
Although the valuations were completed in March, the property wasnt placed on the 
market until June. Santander has said that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it was unable to 
place the property on the market before June 2020 due to government rules at the time. I accept that Santander couldnt market the property for the seven week period which began 
on 23 March 2020. However, the housing market reopened on 13 May 2020 for socially 
distanced viewings. Im less clear why Santander then took a further month to start 
marketing the property again around 15 June 2020. Im persuaded time was lost marketing 
the property from May to June 2020.
Santander has offered to refund the interest charged for the month of May but I dont think 
this goes far enough. If possession had been taken on 21 January 2020 or soon after, Im 
persuaded Santander could have begun the marketing process sooner in February 2020  
and this would have been four months earlier than it did. Some progress marketing the 
property might have been made before national lockdown, and this might have helped the 
sale happen much sooner.
Did the delay affect the price the property was sold for?
Mr Ls said the delays affected the price the property was sold for. I appreciate Mr Ls 
concerns about this, but several factors can affect how attractive a property is to a 
potential buyer, including  but not limited to  the condition of the property and its 
location.
Looking at the available information, Ive not seen any persuasive evidence to show 
demand in the property was reduced due to it being placed on the market in June, instead 
of earlier in the year. Ive looked at the property marketing report, and the comments made 
after the five viewings took place between June and the end of July 2020. Feedback from 
the potential buyers didnt include concerns about the saleability of the property due to the 
pandemic. Ultimately it wasnt until the asking price was reduced that offers were received 
and a sale was agreed. Overall, Im not persuaded that the level of demand for this property 
was adversely affected due to the date it was put on the market.
Mr L has complained that the asking price of the property was reduced in August 2020, 
from £450,000 to £425,000. Ive already said that I think adequate steps were taken by 
Santander to get the property valued by three parties. The three valuation reports gave a 
projected market value/sale price of the property of between £400,000 and £450,000. 
Santander initially tried to market the property at the top end of this range. Seven weeks 
later there had only been seven viewings and no offers. Santander dropped the asking 
price by £25,000 and following the reduction in asking price, the frequency of viewings 
increased. Several offers were received which led to a sale being agreed in early 
September.
Overall, Im satisfied Santander acted reasonably when reducing the asking price for the 
property in August 2020. There had been limited interest generated by marketing the 
property for £450,000 and the asking price of £425,000 was within the projected 
valuations given by three independent parties. Santander needed to act to make sure the 
sale progressed in a timely manner, and I think dropping the price when it did was 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
What do I think should happen now to put things right?
I have said that Santander and its agents caused delays on a number of separate 
occasions over the possession and marketing of Mr Ls property. Santander has offered to 
refund one months interest applied in May.
The circumstances of this complaint are exceptional, and Im mindful that the wider impact 
of coronavirus would have been out of both Santander and Mr Ls control. But in this case, 
the process stalled a number of times. Even without the seven week unavoidable delay caused by coronavirus restrictions closing the housing market, I think Santander and its 
agent had a major part to play in the possession and sale taking eleven months to 
complete. I dont think it is fair to expect Mr L to carry the full cost of the interest that 
accrued in that time. I think it is reasonable that the interest cost is shared with Santander. 
And so my provisional decision is that Mr L should only pay 50% of the interest applied to 
the mortgage from January 2020 to when it was repaid in November 2020.
Santander has already offered to pay £600 to Mr L as a goodwill payment, and its 
solicitors have separately paid £200 to Mr L to recognise the impact of its error. Overall, I 
think that £800 already offered is reasonable to reflect the trouble and upset caused to Mr 
L by the mistakes of Santander and its solicitor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L responded to my provisional decision saying he felt it was a fair reflection of what had 
happened. He made no further comments or arguments about the redress I had proposed.
Santander replied to say it didnt agree in part with my findings. It did accept that there had 
been delays caused between 21 January 2020 and 10 March 2020, and in May 2020 but it 
said once the property was marketed these delays had nothing to do with Santander. It 
argued there would always have been a period of time needed for the house to be marketed 
and for the sale to complete. It said the evidence provided showed that there were issues 
with the saleability of the property and this, combined with the initial asking price, meant a 
sale was not completed as quickly as both Santander and Mr L would have hoped. 
Santander said I should focus on what had happened and not what might have happened. It 
thought it was reasonable to compensate Mr L for interest in February and March making a 
total of around £2,561.37 plus 8%. It confirmed it had already refunded the May payment.
Ive thought carefully about what Santander has said and I appreciate the arguments it has 
made. Santander has tried to delineate precisely when it thinks it was responsible for delays 
and I can see why it has done this. My approach is slightly different. There are many factors 
that have led to the protracted possession and sales process of this property- and some 
reach back into the preceding year and background to this complaint which is relevant 
context. Mistakes were made by Santander and its agents during 2020. I dont think it is so 
straightforward in this case to determine the number of days Santander should reasonably 
be held accountable and only refund interest for that specific period.
Having considered the matter further I still think its fair and reasonable in the specific 
circumstances of this complaint for Santander to reimburse Mr L for 50% of the interest 
accrued from January to when the mortgage was repaid in November. I say this because I 
dont think there is clear delineation of the days or weeks that Santander should reimburse- 
and those that Mr L should be held financial accountable for. I think the overall time taken 
came about as a result of a number of factors, and one of these was the closure of the 
housing market as a result of the coronavirus pandemic.
Putting things right
I dont think its possible in the particular circumstances of this complaint to accurately 
apportion the exact period each party ought reasonably be held responsible for the time 
taken from January to November. Ive said there were a series of mistakes by Santander which led to an overall delay and that the pace with which this property was sold was more 
protracted than it could and should have been. And so, I think the fairest way to put things 
right in this particular dispute is to step back and consider the overall period of time taken to 
sell the property and for Mr L and Santander to share the interest cost equally over the 
period from January to November.
Santander has said it has already reimbursed Mr L for one month of interest so it should take 
this into account when calculating the remaining interest to be refunded. 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc. To settle the 
matter, I direct Santander to refund 50% of the interest charged on Mr Ls mortgage from 
January 2020 to the date the mortgage was repaid. This should be calculated plus 8% 
simple interest on this amount from the date the mortgage was redeemed to the date of 
settlement. I make no further award for the trouble and upset caused beyond the offer that 
Santander has already made to Mr L.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman