DRN-3780968
The complaint
Mr S complains because he says the motor warranty policy he bought from Motors 
Insurance Company Limited (MICL) is misleading and not fit for purpose.  
What happened
Mr S purchased an extended motor warranty online following correspondence he received in 
the post. When he broke down, he had his vehicle recovered to a retailing garage.
Mr S says that three working days after he broke down, he was told the fault had been 
diagnosed. He says he was told hed have his vehicle back in two days. But the following 
day he was told the part required was not currently available, and that it was unclear when it 
would be. Mr S says MICL made no attempt to update him or keep him mobile at this time.
12 days later, Mr S received an email from the garage. It advised that they were still awaiting 
the part, and that he would remain in car hire for two more days, paid for by the garage.
Two days later, Mr S was told the part could take another three weeks to arrive. The garage 
agreed to extend car hire for another day. 
11 days later, the repair was completed. Mr S says this delay was unacceptable. It was 
almost five times what he was first told. Mr S says the garage kept him mobile but MICL 
were apathetic to his plight. He says MICL seemed to spend more time arguing over car hire 
when it shouldve been trying to facilitate his repair.
Mr S says MICL failed to do what it said it would. He had no peace of mind, just stress, and 
Mr S says MICL completely failed in its role. 
MICL apologised for any delays it had caused. But it said it was unaware there had been any 
issues at the time and that any issues Mr S had should be directed to the retailing garage. 
But Mr S remained unhappy and complained to our service. An investigator reviewed the file 
and said MICL had done nothing wrong. 
Mr S didnt agree, so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Mr S has essentially raised two issues. He feels that MICL let him down and provided a poor 
service during his breakdown, and he feels he was misled into thinking this was a policy that 
was provided by his vehicle manufacturer, and not one owned and administered by a 
separate third party.
Ill look at whether Mr S was misled first. Specifically, whether the documentation and 
correspondence received was unclear. Mr S says he received correspondence via post from 
a manufacturer approved warranty administrator. He used the password provided in this 
correspondence to purchase the extended warranty online. The confirmation email he 
received was from an email address that contained the vehicle manufacturers name and the 
signature at the end had the manufacturers administration warranty set out as a job title. 
The policy terms and conditions that Mr S wouldve received contain the vehicle 
manufacturers logo, and they set out that this is an extended warranty. The booklet says 
this product is only available through a specific retailer or from the manufacturers approved 
warranty administrator. Later in this policy document it sets out very clearly who this 
administrator is and who the insurer of the product is. 
I can see how Mr S might have been confused, as the manufacturers logo is quite dominant 
on all the extended warranty documentation. But I will also say that the policy terms are very 
clear on who the administrator is and its also very clear this is an extended warranty. Its 
very normal in the motor warranty industry for third party companies to administer extended 
warranties for all types of vehicle manufacturers, once the original manufacturers warranty 
ends. This is exactly what happened here. And looking at all the documentation we have on 
file, I cant see theres any attempt to mislead Mr S that it was anything else. So, I dont 
uphold this part of the complaint.
Lets now look at what happened when Mr S broke down and the cover this policy provides. 
This policy is an extended warranty cover. If you break down your first port of call is to 
contact your vehicle manufacturers retailing garage. Its the retailing garages job to 
diagnose and fix the issue. If car hire is required, again this is the retailing garages 
responsibility. All MICL are required to do is consider whether a claim is valid and refund the 
agreed cost after the fault has been repaired. MICL will also pay up to seven days vehicle 
hire, once this has been approved.
I know Mr S thinks the policy wording is lies. He questions everything written in it, such as 
when it says it is expert protection, its a highly responsive warranty, and it gives peace of 
mind. He says of MICL You failed to provide me with peace of mind. You kept my vehicle 
away from me for a protracted period. You could not supply the main dealer with the part 
which he was ready to replace, but you could argue with the main dealer about 
responsibility for keeping me mobile. You failed to contact me at any time to offer any 
explanation or apology for your abysmal performance. 
But none of this was MICLs responsibility. All its required to do is pay a valid claim and pay 
the required amount of car hire. MICL is not the retailer or the manufacturer. It just 
underwrites the policy, and it has no responsibility for part delays, car hire issues or poor 
service. 
Weve spoken to the retailing garage and its advised that in normal circumstances this part 
wouldve been available, and the vehicle wouldve been back on the road in days. It says a 
worldwide part shortage following manufacturing closures due to the global pandemic is to 
blame for the delays. The retailer says it kept Mr S updated and in car hire for as long as 
possible whilst it waited for the part.
I know Mr S is unhappy with the delays and he feels MICL was to blame. But its not. MICL 
did everything it was supposed to do in this scenario in line with the policy. And as such, I 
cant see that it did anything wrong. I appreciate Mr Ss frustration. But any issues that arose 
were out of MICLs hands and responsibility. It covered the cost of repair and car hire back 
to the retailer as per the terms and conditions of the extended warranty.  
I know Mr S will be disappointed with this outcome. But on the basis of what Ive seen I wont 
be upholding this complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman