DRN-3590510
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited didnt do enough to get 
in touch with him before getting a county court judgement (CCJ).
What happened
This complaint surrounds a credit card account that was opened in Mr Ws name in 2010, 
was defaulted in 2011, and was sold to Cabot in 2012.
Cabot tried to get in touch with Mr W using the details from the account. In January 2016, 
they traced him to a more up-to-date address via a credit reference agency. They still got no 
response, so in August 2016 they started a claim for a CCJ, which they were later granted 
by the county court.
Mr W says this account was opened fraudulently by someone else, and that the first he 
heard of it was from a letter he received in 2021. He says Cabot should have made more 
efforts to contact him before the CCJ, such as by using social media or bailiffs.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that we couldnt consider the opening of the account  which was done by the 
original creditor, and we couldnt address the CCJ itself as were unable to consider matters 
that a court has already decided. They did look into Cabots attempts to contact Mr W, and 
found they were sufficient.
Mr W didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, Im not able to consider Mr Ws arguments about how the 
account was opened in this case against Cabot, nor overturn the CCJ. Thats because the 
opening of the account was done by the original creditor, not by Cabot. And because the 
county court has already determined that Mr W is liable for this debt under a CCJ  and I am 
unable to overrule the county court, in much the same way that the county court cannot 
overrule the high court. If Mr W would like to dispute the CCJ or have it set aside, he would 
need to apply to the courts  though Id always recommend seeking legal advice first.
I can consider the attempts Cabot made to contact Mr W before getting the CCJ. And having 
carefully considered this, I think they did broadly what wed expect them to.
Cabot tried contacting Mr W by letter, mobile phone, and landline, to the contact details they 
were given by the original lender, which had been registered by the original borrower. After 
getting no response, Cabot ran a trace through a credit reference agency to find a more up-
to-date address for Mr W, then they tried that address too. Thats in line with what Id expect 
them to have done, and in line with what Id consider to be good industry practice.
It was reasonable for Cabot to rely on the information on the account and the information 
they were given by the credit reference agency from the trace. And theres no record of any 
of their post getting returned, so they didnt have a good reason to think their letters werent 
getting through. They also wrote quite a number of letters and tried quite a number of calls 
over the years, so they did make a sufficient number of attempts to get hold of Mr W before 
the CCJ.
Mr W said Cabot should have ran a trace earlier. But the trace they ran was a good number 
of months before the CCJ, so I dont think they did it too late.
Mr W also raised doubts about whether Cabot really sent the letters. But their records are 
very clear, and they were even able to reproduce copies of letters they sent. Ive found 
nothing which shows or substantiates that the letters were not sent. I think that they were.
Lastly, Mr W suggested Cabot should have tried other methods to reach him, like social 
media or bailiffs. But there was no requirement or expectation for them to use such methods. 
Further, Id not normally consider it appropriate to use social media to determine someones 
debt liabilities or to contact people about their sensitive financial information. And Cabot 
needed to get a CCJ first before being able to use bailiffs anyway.
So while I understand Mr Ws point of view, and while I understand this is not the decision he 
will have been hoping for, I have not found that Cabot did anything wrong in their attempts to 
contact Mr W before getting a CCJ.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman