DRN-3439670
The complaint
Mr G complains AXIS Speciality Europe SE have unfairly declined his buildings insurance 
clam. 
All references to AXIS also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr Gs agent reported the property was fine when they visited in March 2020. 
Following this, the agent was unable to visit the property due to travel restrictions 
until June 2020, when damage to the property was discovered. But I can see the 
agent told Mr G in April 2020 conditions locally had been wet.
Based on this, I think its likely the damage happened sometime between the agents 
visits in March 2020, and June 2020.
AXIS said there were no storm conditions at the time and the damage has occurred 
from rainfall penetrating the outer building due to a lack of maintenance to the 
property.  
Mr G being unable to travel to the property due to travel restrictions isnt in dispute. 
However, what I need to consider is whether the damage has occurred in the way 
Mr G has said and whether AXIS have acted fairly in applying the exclusion it has in 
declining the claim. 
The policy doesnt set out a specific definition of a storm, but this is generally a heavy 
wind accompanied by heavy rainfall, hail or snow. 
Heavy rainfall was reported in this area in March 2020, but Ive not seen any 
information that persuades me storm conditions occurred in the region of the property 
within this time. 
Ive considered the photos of property provided by all parties. I can see some signs 
of what could be wear and tear. Such as the outer render being in a poor condition in 
places around the property. This type of damage generally tends to occur over a 
longer period. And Im not persuaded the rain alone could cause this type of damage.
Mr G disputes AXIS findings from its inspection, but Ive not seen anything that 
persuades me its findings are obviously wrong.  
Mr G has provided comments from a contractor, a description of what they found on 
visiting the property in June 2021, which also references blown render. And 
although it says they believe the property was damaged due to adverse weather it 
doesnt offer an alternative explanation as to how this occurred. 
As Ive set out above, Im not persuaded storm conditions were present, and that 
rainfall alone wouldnt have caused the damage described. So, Im more persuaded 
by what AXIS has said.
Mr G says a claim for storm damage was made at AXISs suggestion. But Mr G 
ultimately made the decision to proceed with this. And he has said storms occurred in 
the region around the time set out above. AXIS have also considered whether Mr G 
could claim under a different section of the policy. But because an exclusion applies, 
Mr G isnt able to. So, I dont think AXIS have acted unfairly here.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman