DRN-1942373
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 2002 in connection with a mortgage. Mr B says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) mis-sold him PPI.
What happened
Mr B took out a PPI policy which started around four months after he started payments on 
his mortgage. He paid a monthly amount for the policy which offered accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. Mr B has complained that he felt pressured to buy PPI. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Mr B disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the whole matter to be looked at again.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland should have made Mr B aware he had a choice when buying the policy. 
Bank of Scotland and Mr B have limited paperwork from the time of the PPI sale. I dont think 
thats surprising given that the sale took place around 18 years ago. But it does mean I have 
limited information about the sale, so I have to decide what I think is more likely to have 
happened, given the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
Based on what I know about how Bank of Scotland sold policies like this at the time I think 
its likely the optional nature would have been made clear. And nothing Mr B has told me 
makes me think Bank of Scotland didnt follow its normal process here. So overall, I think its 
more likely Bank of Scotland made it clear to Mr B he had a choice about the PPI, and he 
agreed to buy it although I can understand why he may not remember this now.
Mr B said he felt pressured to buy the PPI, but he hasnt given any details about the 
conversation he had that day or with whom, which means I havent seen any persuasive 
evidence that he was pressured to buy PPI. So I cant uphold the complaint for that reason.
Bank of Scotland says the sale was advised which means the PPI had to be suitable for Mr 
Bs needs and the information had to be clear enough for him to make an informed decision 
about the policy. 
I think the policy probably was suitable for Mr B because he was eligible to buy PPI, it 
seemed affordable at the time and he wasnt affected by the main things the policy didnt 
cover (the exclusions).
I noted Mr B says he had savings  but the mortgage application suggests his savings were 
earmarked for paying towards the house purchase. He also said he would have received 
good sick pay benefits from his employer. But the policy could have paid out for a maximum 
of 24 months on a successful claim  so it could have paid out for longer than and in addition 
to his employee benefits and savings. So I dont think his employee benefits or savings 
made the policy unsuitable. 
On balance, I think PPI would have been a useful benefit for him because Mr B borrowed 
funds against a large and long-term financial commitment, which was secured on his home. I 
think having the security that his mortgage repayments would be made if Mr B was unable to 
work would have been important to him. 
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr 
B about the PPI cost and benefits wasnt as clear as it should have been. But having 
decided Mr B chose to take out the PPI - it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And  for 
the reasons Ive explained above - it looks like the policy would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the policy was affordable for him so I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put Mr B off from taking out the cover. And 
overall I dont think Mr B has lost out by anything Bank of Scotland might have done wrong.
Bank of Scotland should also have pointed out the things which the policy didnt cover  the 
exclusions. So I particularly looked to see if he could claim on it with a pre-existing medical 
condition. However, it does not look like Mr B was adversely affected by the main exclusions 
in the policy, so I dont think that more detailed information about the exclusions would have 
put him off from buying the policy.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008.
Bank of Scotland said Mr Bs mortgage ended in 2003. So based on what Ive said above, I 
dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court 
judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of 
commission apply here.
So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr B paid for the PPI he 
had with his mortgage. 
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mr B. Its always difficult to decide a 
complaint on very little information. But Ive thought very carefully about what Mr B has said 
and about what I know of Bank of Scotlands sales processes. And I dont think  on balance 
 I can fairly and reasonably uphold his complaint.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman