DRN-4150537
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy because American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) declined his 
disputed transaction claim.
What happened
In or around June 2022 Mr W purchased a subscription to a website and paid the merchant 
using his AESEL credit card.
In or around November 2022 Mr W received an email from the merchant which said there 
was an automatic subscription renewal in place on his account for 12 months at a cost of 
£478.80.
Mr W says he went onto the App and cancelled his subscription. He says that following this, 
he checked his subscription status a couple of times and saw that it said subscription ends 
on 14 December 2022. 
On 16 December 2022 Mr W noticed that his AESEL card had been charged £478.80 for a 
further 12 months subscription. He contacted the merchant and said hed cancelled his 
subscription and asked for the charge to be refunded.
The merchant replied to Mr W and said his subscription had renewed because the automatic 
renewal feature hadnt been disabled. It said it was unable to issue a refund because Mr Ws 
request to cancel had been made outside of the cancellation policy.
Unable to resolve matters with the merchant, Mr W raised a disputed transaction claim with 
AESEL.
AESEL charged back the merchant and asked it for its version of events. The merchant 
responded by rejecting the dispute and said it hadnt received a cancellation request. AESEL 
asked Mr W for evidence that hed cancelled the subscription but ultimately decided that it 
didnt have enough evidence to uphold the dispute.
Mr W remained unhappy with AESELs decision and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Mr W hadnt provided evidence to 
show that hed cancelled the subscription. She also said that the renewal reminder email 
dated 14 November 2022 clearly explained the process which Mr W needed to follow to 
cancel the subscription and that based on the information provided by both parties, she 
didnt think Mr W had completed that process. The investigator concluded that AESEL hadnt 
acted unreasonably in rejecting the claim.
Mr W didnt agree so Ive been asked to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has raised several points in his submission to this service. Ive understood and looked 
into these, but Ive only commented on what I think is essential to my conclusions. 
The key issues here are the obligations owed by AESEL to Mr W in this situation, the 
chargeback request and how AESEL dealt with it, and whether AESEL shouldve considered 
the claim under section 75.
What obligations did AESEL have to Mr W in this situation?
Its clear from everything that Mr W has told this service that hes not happy with the way the 
merchant (the website) responded to his complaint and request for a refund. Hes pointed 
out that he followed what he understood to be the process for cancelling his subscription. Mr 
W has said that he considers AESEL to be equally liable with the merchant and that AESEL 
shouldve reviewed the merchants actions.
I agree that in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer a right to claim against the supplier of goods (or services) or the provider of credit 
if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. Based on what Ive seen here, 
AESEL dealt with Mr Ws disputed transaction under the chargeback scheme, not under 
section 75. It has told this service that it received an online chargeback request from Mr W 
on 19 December 2022 to cancel and refund the payment to the merchant. So my role here is 
to look at whether AESEL has done anything wrong in the way it handled the chargeback.
The chargeback request and how AESEL dealt with it
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary one. Its a process by which disputed transaction 
disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants under the relevant card scheme 
rules. What this means is that AESEL can, in some circumstances, ask for a transaction to 
be reversed if theres a problem with the goods or services supplied by the merchant. But 
the chargeback proves doesnt give a consumer any legal rights and it isnt guaranteed to 
result in a refund. It depends on the evidence provided to support the chargeback and what 
the merchant says in response. Id consider it to be good practice for AESEL to raise a 
chargeback if it thinks theres a good chance of it being successful.
In this case, I can see that AESEL raised the chargeback and credited Mr Ws account with 
the disputed sum. It asked Mr W to provide evidence to show that he had cancelled the 
subscription. 
AESEL has said that it considered the information received from Mr W and the merchant and 
ultimately declined the chargeback because Mr W hadnt provided evidece to show that he 
had cancelled the subscription.
Ive reviewed all of the information that Mr W and the merchant provided to AESEL. I 
understand that Mr W thought hed successfully cancelled his subscription. However, it 
seems that the subscription didnt cancel because Mr W did t turn off the automatic renewal 
on his subscription.
I cant be certain of exactly what steps Mr W took to cancel his subscription. I can see that 
AESEL asked Mr W to provide evidence to show that hed cancelled the subscription. This 
evidence might have included (by way of example) a screenshot of the cancellation 
confirmation or an email confirming that the subscription had been cancelled. In this case, 
without any evidence (other than Mr Ws testimony) to show that the subscription had been 
cancelled, I dont think it was unreasonable for AESEL to reject the chargeback claim.Section 75
Ive gone on to consider section 75. Ive already explained that in certain circumstances 
section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if ethers been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
In this case, whilst I can see that AESEL considered the chargeback claim, I cant see that it 
considered the claim under section 75.  AESEL hasnt mentioned section 75 in its final 
response letter.
Mr W has made some points about his cancellation rights and the cooling off period under 
the agreement. Hes also commented that the screen he saw regarding his account status 
after he had cancelled his subscription was misleading and misrepresented the actual status 
of his account. So, I can see why Mr W might want AESEL to consider his claim under 
section 75. 
Theres no time limit for bringing a claim under section 75.  So, if Mr W wishes to raise a 
claim under section 75 with AESEL, he can do so. AESEL must be given the opportunity to 
consider the claim and respond. If Mr W he isnt happy with the outcome, he can ask this 
service to look into it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think AESEL acted unreasonably when it rejected the chargeback claim,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman