DRN-3361609
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of his claims made under a 
home emergency policy that covered plumbing and drainage.
Aviva is the underwriter of the insurance policy and ultimately responsible for the handling of 
claims. In this decision, where I refer to Aviva, that includes its agents that it has appointed 
to deal with the claim.
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
Mr C called Aviva and reported two leaks  one from a waste pipe, and one from a 
stopcock. Aviva arranged for an engineer to visit Mr Cs home on 3 September 2019. The 
engineer successfully stopped the leak from the stopcock.
The engineer also investigated the waste pipe leak. However Mr C says that he had not 
given permission for any work to be carried out on this leak, and did not sign a disclaimer 
relating to any potential damage that Aviva might cause when dealing with it. Mr C says the 
engineer pulled a pedestal/sink away from the wall in his bathroom, causing water to enter 
the kitchen below, damaging the ceiling and walls, and affecting the electrics. Mr C also says 
the engineer cracked a floor tile in the bathroom where he had put his bag down.
On 10 September, Mr C told Aviva that he had had to get a private engineer out to stop the 
leak. However, on 11 September Mr C spoke to Aviva and said that there was now a major 
leak, and he stated that this was the result of the actions of the engineer who had visited on 
3 September.
It was arranged for another engineer to visit Mr Cs home on 11 September. Mr C had told 
Aviva that for his records, he would be filming the work carried out by the engineer. But the 
engineer did not realise this was going to happen, and when Mr C explained what he 
intended to do, the engineer left without carrying out any work.
On 12 September, Mr C reported to Aviva what he referred to as a new leak. He described 
this as a leak underneath the bathroom floor that was showing on the kitchen ceiling below. 
Aviva agreed to send a new engineer and said that it would investigate if this leak was linked 
to the one that occurred on 3 September.
The engineer attended on 13 September and diagnosed this leak to be from pipes buried in 
the bathroom wall. He removed tiles and found the leak to be from a hose for the bidet 
shower. The engineer stopped the leak, commenting that the installation was not in line with 
water regulations. His view was that this leak was not linked to any action taken by the Aviva 
engineer during the 3 September visit.
Due to the water damage that had been caused to the property, Mr C had enquired about 
making a claim under his separate home insurance policy. The home insurer appointed a 
surveyor to inspect the damage on 26 September. Based on the surveyors comments when 
it visited, and the report that it produced, Mr C says the surveyors opinion was that Aviva 
was liable for the water damage caused.
On 28 September, Mr C reported to Aviva that there was still a leak at his home, and water 
was again coming through the kitchen ceiling. However it appears from Avivas notes that 
when it attempted to arrange a further visit to deal with the leak, the times proposed were not 
convenient for Mr C.
To determine whether it was liable for the damage caused at Mr Cs home, Aviva proposed 
to appoint a surveyor to visit and provide a report on this matter. The surveying company 
Aviva planned to use was the same one which the home insurer had used. The inspection 
date was scheduled for 1 December. However, Mr C said that he would not allow the 
surveyor to visit unless beforehand, he received confirmation from Aviva about the 
information it had given the surveyor relating to the events that had occurred. Aviva provided 
Mr C with this. He then said he was cancelling the visit because Aviva had passed over 
factually incorrect information about whether he had authorised the engineer who visited on 
3 September to look at the leak behind the bathroom sink.
Aviva sent Mr C two letters responding to his complaint about its actions. The first was on 10 
December 2019. This stated that Mr C had asked its engineer who visited on 3 September to 
look at the leak from the waste pipe. Aviva said the damage which occurred was not the 
result of its negligence, but was the result of poorly installed pipework. It also commented 
that a leak had been there before its visit, and in its opinion, the escape of water would have 
happened if any engineer had tested the waste pipe for leaks. Aviva also said there was 
insufficient evidence that the engineer had damaged the bathroom tile with his bag. It did 
offer £100 to reflect delays and poor communication.
In its letter dated 3 January 2020, Aviva stated that the requirement for a disclaimer to be 
signed by a policyholder was only for situations where accessing a leak might cause 
damage to a property. It said a disclaimer was not required when an engineer was doing a 
visual inspection or making an initial diagnosis. Aviva commented that listening to the calls 
Mr C had had with it prior to its visit on 3 September, it was clear Mr C wanted the engineer 
to review the waste pipe leak once on site. The engineer had acted in good faith when trying 
to diagnose the problem, but because of installation problems, the water had leaked.
In terms of the leak which was dealt with on 13 September, Aviva said that was found on a 
section of the bidet shower pipework which was buried in concrete and behind tiles. Due to 
the location of this leak, Aviva did not consider its engineer who visited on 3 September 
caused it. It also did not accept that the surveyors report produced for the home insurer 
proved that Aviva was liable for damage caused to Mr Cs home. Based on the investigation 
it had now carried out, Aviva stated that it no longer considered it was necessary for it to 
appoint a surveyor to inspect the damage at Mr Cs home.
Unhappy with Avivas stance, Mr C brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. Her view was that Mr C had requested Aviva 
to look at the leak to his waste pipe when it first visited. She did not consider it had been 
shown that an Aviva engineer had negligently damaged Mr Cs home. And her conclusion 
was that the £100 compensation offer from Aviva was a fair one.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators findings. During a phone call with the investigator, he 
stated that when he initially rang Aviva, he said there were two leaks, one from a stopcock, and one from external pipework that was not inside the bathroom. Mr C says he agreed with 
Aviva that the attending engineer would only deal with the stopcock. Once there, if Mr C 
wanted the waste pipe leak dealt with, the engineer would call Aviva, and it would then take 
a further policy excess prior to the engineer dealing with the leak.
Mr C says that, as he hadnt paid the excess for the waste pipe leak, and had not given 
permission for it to be dealt with, the engineer should not have started to investigate it. 
However, Mr C has described the engineer going up to the bathroom without his knowledge 
and then ripping it out. In his view, the engineer broke the bidet shower pipework in the 
course of moving the sink. This led to water rushing down the inside of his house. He has 
questioned why work was done in this area when the leak was external.
Mr C says that it was this engineers actions that caused the internal bathroom leak, and 
also the leak which was investigated during the 13 September visit. He does not consider 
Avivas engineers who concluded that there were faults with the installation of pipework are 
independent. Mr C is unhappy that Aviva is now refusing to send out a surveyor to inspect 
the damage he says its engineers caused, and in his opinion Aviva did admit to him that it 
was liable for the damage.
In order to assess this complaint, Mr C says it is necessary to listen to recordings of calls he 
had with Aviva, in particular from when he initially reported his claim.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Key to Mr Cs complaint is that when he first reported the leaks occurring at his property, he 
only gave Aviva permission to investigate the one relating to the stopcock. Mr C has pointed 
to the fact that he only paid one policy excess, relating to the stopcock leak. Consequently 
he says that the engineer who carried out the visit on 3 September did not have authority to 
look at the waste pipe leak. And Mr C says that engineer went on to cause significant 
damage to his home.
I have listened to recordings of telephone conversations between Mr C and Aviva on 3 
September, before the engineer visited. In the first call of these calls, Mr C says that the 
original problem was the waste pipe leaking, and this then caused the stopcock to leak. He 
explains he thought this would make it one claim. Mr C also says that he cant use his 
upstairs sink  by which I believe he means his bathroom sink - because when he does it 
leaks onto the outside wall. As a consequence, Mr C says he has switched all the water off.
Mr C mentions there are problems with his heating system, with some of the heaters not 
working. He suggests that water is being lost from the system, and he asks if the engineer 
will be able to fill up the boiler. Mr C also asks if this will all be dealt with under the claim  
and he summarises the problem as being that the heating isnt working, and the water isnt 
on. It is clear to me from this call that Mr C was seeking for all leaks in his house to be dealt 
with by Aviva, and if possible, for this to be dealt with as one claim.
A further call took place that day. In this call, Mr C explains that he has had a leak in his sink 
upstairs, on the waste pipe. He reiterates that when the waste pipe started leaking, the 
stopcock also started to leak. Mr C says this should be treated as one claim. He also 
describes the house as having no heating or hot water. Again Mr C requests that the 
engineer should look at both the waste pipe and stopcock leaks, together with the heating.Mr Cs opinion is that he did not give permission for the waste pipe leak to be investigated by 
the engineer who visited on 3 September. However, the weight of evidence contained in the 
phone calls prior to the visit leads me to the conclusion that Mr C wanted the engineer to 
look at the waste pipe leak. Consequently I consider it more likely than not that Mr C did give 
the engineer permission to investigate this leak when he was on site.
Mr C has also highlighted that he did not sign a disclaimer prior to the engineer investigating 
the waste pipe leak. The policy terms confirm that where direct access to the source of a 
leak is not available, the engineer will ask the policyholder to confirm in writing that they 
agree to the engineer creating access. Any damage caused will then not be the 
responsibility of Aviva.
Aviva has stated that the engineer did not need to ask for a disclaimer to be signed because 
he was only at the stage of carrying out an initial diagnosis of the waste pipe leak. Overall, I 
would agree that it was reasonable at this point for the engineer to carry out an initial 
diagnosis without asking Mr C to sign a damage disclaimer.
However, even if the engineer was investigating the waste pipe leak with Mr Cs permission, 
I must still determine whether the engineer caused damage to the home through negligence. 
I have listened to the recording of the call Mr C made to Aviva on 3 September during the 
engineers visit. Mr C told the Aviva representative that the actions of the engineer had 
caused damage to his home.
The representative speaks directly to the engineer, who says that the original installation of 
the sink (which had been around six months before) had been carried out incorrectly, and 
this was the cause of the leak. In the written comments the engineer produced after the visit, 
he said that when he ran water through the system, it resulted in water running through into 
the kitchen below  which is what Mr C also reported as happening.
Mr C told the Aviva representative during the call that the bathroom installation had worked 
for six months. He went on to say that the heating and water had been working before the 
engineers visit. But this is in contrast to what Mr C had told Aviva in one of the calls noted 
above that was prior to the visit, when he summarised that the house had no heating or hot 
water, and he asked that the engineer fill up the boiler.
In the call during the engineers 3 September visit, Mr C qualifies his comment that the 
installation had been working by saying that whenever he leaves the house, he has to turn 
the water off because he has to put a bucket under the stop tap. Mr C again also confirms 
that it was the waste from the sink that is leaking, and he says that he cant use the sink.
Based on the evidence provided, and in particular the call recordings from when Mr C spoke 
to Aviva leading up to 3 September visit, it is clear to me that there were elements of the hot 
water and heating installation that were not functioning correctly prior to that visit. Mr C has 
said that the leaks were all external. However, he confirmed to Aviva prior to its visit that 
there was a leak relating to the bathroom sink, so in my view it was reasonable that the 
engineers investigations led him to the bathroom.
As explained, my view on balance is that Mr C did give the engineer permission to 
investigate the waste pipe leak. Mr C says this resulted in the engineer causing damage to 
his home. But Mr C was already aware that the waste from his sink was leaking when he 
asked Aviva to investigate this, and he has explained that he was unable to use the sink. 
With this in mind, I do not consider it has been shown that Aviva is liable for any damage 
that occurred due to the actions of its engineer when investigating the waste pipe leak on 3 
September. And in the absence of any expert evidence to the contrary, my view is that it is reasonable to accept the conclusions of the engineer that there were faults in the installation 
of the sink.
It is Mr Cs view that the leak which Aviva appointed an engineer to look at on 13 September 
was a consequence of the actions taken by the engineer who visited on 3 September. The 
notes made by the engineer who attended on 13 September stated that the leak from the 
bathroom was going through the ceiling below, as Mr C had reported. The engineer found 
the leak to be on a section of the bidet shower pipework, which was buried in concrete and 
behind tiles. His view was that the installation of this pipe was not in line with water 
regulations.
Where the cause of damage is disputed such as in this case, I must weigh up the evidence 
provided by the parties. Mr C has referred to the report of the surveyor who inspected his 
property on behalf of his home insurer as evidence that Aviva is liable for the water damage 
that he has experienced. In that report, the surveyor stated that he had been shown a video 
by Mr C of water coming through the kitchen ceiling whilst the Aviva engineer was in 
attendance. This led the surveyor to write so it would seem liability stands with [Aviva].
Having read the surveyors report, my view is that the principal objective of the surveyors 
visit was to determine whether there was a valid claim for escape of water damage under the 
home insurance policy. The surveyor concluded that there was. But it seems investigating 
whether Aviva was liable for the damage was not the main aim of the surveyors visit. Had 
Mr C pursued his escape of water claim with his home insurer, my view is that that insurer 
would likely have looked further into whether Aviva was liable for the damage due to the 
actions of its engineer. That would have been so it could decide whether to pursue Aviva for 
the costs of repairs it covered.
The surveyor said that to confirm the extent of damage to pipework, some trace and access 
works would be required. Overall my view is that when stating liability would seem to stand 
with Aviva, the home insurers surveyor was suggesting this could be the case, rather than 
definitively concluding that it did. In addition, the surveyor was basing his comments on what 
Mr C had told him, together with a video of water coming through the kitchen ceiling whilst 
an Aviva engineer was in attendance. But based on the contents of his report, it doesnt 
appear that the surveyor undertook a detailed investigation to determine liability for the 
damage during his visit.
Noting that the Aviva engineer who visited on 13 September found the leak reported at that 
time to be from pipework that was buried in concrete and behind tiles, Aviva commented that 
this meant it was unlikely the engineer who visited on 3 September would have caused it. Mr 
C has questioned the independence of the Aviva engineers, taking into account that they are 
appointed by Aviva. Whilst I note the comments made by Mr C, I consider it reasonable to 
place some evidential weight on the findings of the engineers.  On balance, when taking into 
account the attending engineers comments about the cause of the leak that was repaired on 
13 September, I do not consider I have sufficient evidence to conclude that this leak was 
caused by the actions of the engineer who visited on 3 September.
Mr C has asked that Aviva arrange for a surveyor to visit his home to further investigate 
whether the engineer who attended on 3 September negligently caused damage to his 
home, and to consider any link to the subsequent leak that was stopped on 13 September. 
Aviva did initially attempt to arrange a visit from a surveyor. But this did not go ahead 
because Mr C was unhappy with the information the surveying company was given by Aviva 
about the events that had occurred.
When Aviva later issued its response to Mr Cs complaint, it withdraw the offer to arrange for 
a surveyor to carry out an inspection on the basis that it didnt consider it was necessary in order for it to determine whether it was liable for damage to the home. I appreciate that Mr C 
would now like a surveyors visit to take place. But my view is that it would not now be 
reasonable to require Aviva to arrange such a visit, as it has fairly assessed its liability to Mr 
C in this matter.
Mr C has said that the first engineer who visited cracked a floor tile in the bathroom when he 
put his bag down. Clearly I cannot know for certain whether the engineer caused a tile to 
crack, but it seems to me unlikely that a tile would crack as a result of this action. 
Consequently, in the absence of persuasive evidence to the contrary, I dont consider 
Avivas engineer more likely than not caused this damage.
Aviva did offer Mr C £100 to reflect delays in the handling of his claim, and some poor 
communication. Taking into account the confusion which occurred when Aviva did not inform 
its engineer that he would be filmed by Mr C when he attended the property, despite Mr C 
explaining that he intended to do this, my view is that the compensation payment is a fair 
one.
Finally I note that Mr C is unhappy about the number of policy excess payments he has been 
charged. As I have concluded that on balance the leak dealt with during the 13 September 
visit was a separate incident and unconnected to the leak dealt with during the 3 September 
visit, my view is that it is reasonable that Mr C has paid two separate policy excess 
payments, relating to these two visits.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva stated that it had no further comments to make, and that it agreed with the findings of 
the provisional decision.
Mr C disagreed with my provisional decision. He initially commented that there was no 
mention in it of the video recording he made when the second Aviva engineer confirmed that 
the earlier engineer should not have moved the sink. He also said that he couldnt see 
reference in the provisional decision to the one hour recorded call he made to Aviva during 
the first engineers visit, when he requested that work in his bathroom should be stopped.
Our investigator highlighted to Mr C that my provisional decision referred to the call 
recording I had listened to that was made during the visit of the engineer on 3 September.
Mr C has since provided detailed comments about the content of my provisional decision, 
together with both videos and photos relating to his complaint. I have read all of Mr Cs 
further comments; the following is a summary of them. I have also watched all of the videos 
and looked at the photos with accompanying comments that Mr C has provided.
Mr C has explained that the leaking waste pipe he reported was on an external elbow bend, 
which came out from the bathroom sink. He has provided photos of this waste pipe, and has 
explained that in his view, this leak could have been repaired by disconnecting the pipe 
externally. Mr C says there was no need to conduct any work on internal fittings, and that 
prior to Aviva attending on 3 September, there was no internal leak from the bathroom sink.
Further to this, Mr C says that during his initial calls to Aviva, he didnt report any internal 
leaks in his bathroom. He says that at no point before the 3 September visit did he report 
any leaks from the bidet shower, under the bathroom tiles, inside the bathroom, on the 
kitchen walls or ceiling. Mr C comments that the only internal leak was on the kitchen 
stopcock, and this was unrelated to the external waste pipe.Mr C says that prior to the 3 September visit from the engineer, he agreed with Aviva that 
the stopcock leak would be dealt with, and he paid an excess for this. He contends that the 
engineer was also to visually inspect the external waste pipe elbow leak, and if this was 
unconnected to the stopcock, a further excess would be payable. Mr C says that any 
rectification works for this new claim were to be discussed with him first, and he would then 
have signed any disclaimers in case of any damage that might be caused in the course of 
stopping the leak.  But he says that the engineer carried out an internal inspection of his 
home and removed the pedestal and fixtures and fittings without his permission.
Mr C has referenced the video he made of the discussion he had with the engineer who 
visited on 13 September about the actions of the 3 September engineer. He says that the 13 
September engineer confirmed to him that it was not necessary for the 3 September 
engineer to remove internal fixtures and fittings in order to stop the external waste pipe leak. 
Mr C has commented that the view of the engineer who visited on 13 September has more 
weight than the engineer who visited earlier because he is a qualified plumber. He has also 
stated that the report from the home insurers surveyor should be given weight because the 
surveyor is independent.
Mr C has referred to video he has provided which he says shows that 20 minutes before the 
engineer arrived on 3 September, there were no signs of water leaks on the kitchen walls 
and ceiling. In relation to the leak on 3 September, Mr C has explained that he is not saying 
that the bidet shower caused this. Instead, he says this was caused by the engineer 
disconnecting the external waste pipe and opening water taps.
Referring to the video of the visit by the engineer on 13 September, Mr C says that the 
engineer was extremely careful not to disturb the bidet shower. He says that on the balance 
of probabilities, this shows that the 3 September engineer damaged the bidet shower when 
he removed fixtures and fittings, causing a major leak on that day. Following emergency 
work carried out on 8 September by a plumber separate to Aviva, Mr C states the leak that 
had started on 3 September continued. It was Avivas engineer who visited on 13 September 
who then confirmed that the leak was from the bidet shower.
In terms of the call that he made to Aviva on 12 September relating to a new leak that I had 
mentioned in my provisional decision, Mr C has explained that this leak was new only to the 
extent that it was spreading to different parts of the bathroom. He considers this was an 
extension of the leak that started on 3 September. Because he is not a plumber, Mr C 
couldnt be sure of the cause of the leak. But he says that the 13 September engineer 
confirmed that all the leaks in the bathroom were related to one issue, which was damage to 
the bidet shower pipe. Once this was isolated, all the leaks in the property were resolved.
Mr C has said that the 13 September engineers view that the bidet shower leak was not 
caused by any actions of the 3 September engineer should be disregarded, as both 
engineers were working on behalf of Aviva. He considers the engineers view was therefore 
biased. Similarly he says that the view of the 3 September engineer that the sink had been 
installed incorrectly was not an independent assessment, and should be disregarded.
Mr C says that prior to 3 September, the bidet pipe was not leaking or showing any signs of 
a leak. In his view, the 3 September engineer carried out work on his property without 
permission, negligently damaging nearby pedestal pipework and bathroom tiles. He says 
that removal of internal fittings was not required to deal with the external waste pipe issue 
that he had reported. And as a result, he considers that Aviva is responsible for water 
damage in his home.
With regard to the cancellation of the proposed 1 December surveyor visit, Mr C says that 
the history of Avivas handling of matters meant that he was not comfortable with its approach. He has however said that he wanted Aviva to send a surveyor to his home to 
obtain a more conclusive opinion about the cause of the water leaks.
In terms of the condition of the heating and hot water, Mr C says that it was working before 3 
September visit, but sometimes the pilot light would not ignite. He believes this was due to 
the water pressure in the boiler being too low, caused by the stopcock leaking. Mr C has 
emphasised that his home did have cold water, but did not have hot water.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr C has reiterated his view that Aviva is fully liable 
for damage to his home following the visit of its engineer on 3 September. A key element of 
Mr Cs complaint relates to the scope of the investigation of leaks that Avivas engineer 
undertook on 3 September. Mr C agrees that in his initial calls to Aviva, he asked that the 
stopcock leak be dealt with. He also accepts that he gave permission for the engineer to 
carry out a visual inspection of the leaking external waste pipe elbow. But he does not agree 
that the engineer had his consent to carry out any works within his house. In particular, Mr C 
says that the engineer moved fixtures and fittings in the bathroom, and this caused a major 
leak that resulted in water going through to the kitchen below.
Although I note Mr Cs comments, during the calls that he made to Aviva prior to the 
engineers visit on 3 September, he told Aviva that the original problem he had was that the 
waste pipe was leaking, and that this had caused the stopcock to leak. During the same call, 
he said that he wasnt able to use his bathroom sink because when he did, there was a leak 
onto his outside wall.
Later that day, during a further call to Aviva, Mr C explained that because the stopcock leak 
had followed the waste pipe leak, his view was that this should all be treated as one claim 
under the policy. He said to Aviva that its leaked upstairs and its burst the pipe downstairs 
as well. In my view, Mr C clearly had an expectation that Aviva would visit his home and 
rectify both the stopcock and waste pipe leaks.
In addition, Mr C had told Aviva that he wasnt able to use his bathroom sink. With that in 
mind, my view is that it was reasonable to expect that an attending engineer would inspect 
inside the bathroom when attempting to rectify the leaks, and I do not consider that the 
engineer was at fault when doing so. 
Mr C is unhappy with the actions that the engineer undertook in the bathroom on 3 
September, stating that these caused significant damage to his home. The notes the 
engineer made about his visit stated that he had tested the waste on the sink and found it to 
be poorly fitted. The engineer said that the original installer should be called back, with the 
waste pipe being cut too short, and an incorrectly sized pipe being in place. He said that 
when he tested the installation for leaks, this caused water to escape through into the 
kitchen below. Mr Cs policy has an exclusion for cover relating to incorrectly installed 
systems.
Mr C has provided a photo of new pipework fitted to the bathroom sink that he says was 
installed by the emergency plumber who attended on 8 September. This pipework is inside 
the bathroom, and appears to feed out through the wall to the external pipework. Mr C says 
the new pipework was required to rectify the leak that Aviva had originally been called out to 
fix on 3 September. On balance this suggests that there were existing faults relating to the 
bathroom sink plumbing not only on the external pipework, but also on some of the internal pipework, as Avivas engineer reported. This would again indicate why the engineer 
inspected inside the bathroom when attempting to rectify the leak on 3 September.
In terms of the escape of water that occurred when Avivas engineer tested the bathroom 
sink on 3 September, my view is that it was reasonable for the engineer to carry out the 
actions that he did because he was attempting to diagnose whether there was a fault with 
the installation. Mr C states that the engineers evidence is not impartial because he was 
working for Aviva. But as I have explained previously, I consider it is reasonable to place 
some weight on the engineers comments, taking into account that he is likely to have 
expertise in this area.
Mr C has again highlighted the comments made by the surveyor appointed by the home 
insurer who inspected the water damage on 26 September. But the surveyors comments 
refer to what he had been told by Mr C were the circumstances relating to the cause of the 
leaks. In addition, as I explained in my provisional decision, I consider the surveyors primary 
task was to assess whether there was a valid claim for water damage under the home 
insurance policy, rather than to assess liability for that. On balance, based on the weight of 
evidence, my conclusion is that Avivas engineer who visited on 3 September acted 
reasonably when investigating the leaks reported by Mr C, and it has not been shown that he 
was negligent in these actions. Consequently, I do not find Aviva to have been at fault in this 
regard.
With regard to the Aviva engineer who visited on 13 September, Mr C has referred me to the 
video he has provided of the conversation he had with this engineer. Mr C has commented 
that this engineer confirmed to him that it was not necessary for the 3 September engineer to 
remove internal fixtures and fittings in order to stop the external waste pipe leak. Although I 
note what Mr C has said, I must also take into account the report that the engineer who 
visited on 13 September provided.
In his report, the 13 September engineer found that there was leaking pipework from the 
bidet shower that was buried in concrete, behind tiles. He stated that this installation was not 
in line with water regulations. And this engineer did not report that the actions of the 
engineer who had visited on 3 September had caused the waste pipe to leak internally, or 
had caused the bidet shower pipework to leak. Despite the doubts that Mr C has expressed 
about the impartiality of the evidence of Avivas engineers, in my view it is reasonable for me 
to place some reliance on the accuracy of the engineers comments. And I am mindful that 
there is no other expert evidence which has been provided that contradicts what Avivas 
engineers have reported.
Overall, my view is that it has not been shown that Aviva was at fault for either the internal 
leak from the waste pipe, or the leak from the bidet shower pipework.
In conclusion, I have carefully considered everything that Mr C has said, and the further 
information he has provided. However, my view remains that on balance, it has not been 
shown that negligence on the part of Aviva caused damage to Mr Cs home, or that Aviva 
has been at fault in its handling of the claims made under the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, other than to require Aviva Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr C £100 in line with the offer it has already made, if it has not already done 
so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
John Swain
Ombudsman