DRN-2671245
The complaint
Mr N complains that Equiniti Financial Services Limited lost a share certificate he sent to 
them in the post. Hed like compensation for the costs hes incurred in replacing the 
certificate and the stress hes experienced. 
What happened
Mr N holds an account with Equiniti. He says that on 2 March 2020 he sent in a request by 
recorded delivery to transfer some shares into his ISA account and his investment account. 
Hes said the share certificate was included in the documentation.
Equiniti wrote to him on 4 March and said that while theyd received most of the 
documentation hed sent in, they hadnt received the share certificate. Mr N received the 
letter on 7 March and called Equiniti on the next working day to query what had happened 
and asked them to look further into the matter. They confirmed they would investigate the 
matter but they were unable to find the missing certificate.
Mr N complained to Equiniti but they didnt uphold his complaint. They explained that they 
were satisfied they hadnt received the certificate as their scanning team had manually 
written no cert on the transfer form Mr N had sent in. And this was usually only done when 
they needed to confirm that no certificate had been sent in.
Mr N then brought the complaint to this service and said, in brief:
The cost of replacing the certificate together with the associated indemnity had cost 
him around £2,000
It also meant that he couldnt fully use his 2019/2020 ISA allowance
The situation had been very distressing and hed also lost confidence in sending the 
replacement certificate at a future time
He did not feel that the urgency of the situation was appropriately understood or dealt 
with
The complaint was looked at by one of our investigators who didnt think it should be upheld. 
He thought that based on the available evidence it was more likely than not that Equiniti 
hadnt received the certificate. 
He also noted Mr Ns concerns about the urgency of the situation but explained that 
businesses have up to eight weeks to respond to a complaint and Equiniti provided their final 
response much quicker than this.
Mr N didnt agree with his findings and as theres been no agreement, the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr N, but Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator
and for broadly the same reasons. Id like to start by saying that I fully understand why this 
complaint has caused him so much frustration. Its clear that the loss of the certificate has 
had fairly significant financial implications and hes spent a lot of time trying to resolve the 
situation.
When the evidence submitted by both parties to a complaint is contradictory, as it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities  what is more likely than not. Its 
clear that Mr N strongly believes that he sent the certificate to Equiniti and this is evidenced 
by the form he sent in. The form shows that he ticked a box to say that hed enclosed the 
certificate. Ive also noted that he took care to send the documentation to Equiniti by special 
delivery and not ordinary post.
However, I can see that Equiniti received all the other documents he sent in  the cover 
letter, CREST transfer form, Investment account transfer in form and Bed and ISA form. I 
think its also key that it was manually noted that no certificate was received when the 
documents were scanned. I think its very unlikely that Equiniti would have misplaced the 
share certificate but correctly processed all the other documents Mr N sent them. So taking 
everything into account I think its more likely than not that Equiniti didnt receive the share 
certificate. 
I can also see that they wrote to Mr N as soon as they realised they didnt receive the share 
certificate and carried out a further investigation when Mr N told them hed sent in the form. I 
appreciate Mr N would have liked a faster resolution to his issue but from what Ive seen I 
dont think there was a lack of urgency from Equiniti.
So, having looked at everything, I dont think I can fairly ask Equiniti to compensate Mr N for 
the loss of the share certificate or any associated costs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman