DRN-2904130
The complaint
Mr P complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE refused to carry out a repair to a tap under 
his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr P contacted Great Lakes to report a broken hot water tap. An engineer attended. Mr P 
says the engineer did not fix the problem. On chasing the matter with the company, he says 
he was told that taps are not covered under this policy. 
Mr P complained to Great Lakes. He pointed out that the policy included breakdowns and 
there was a specific reference to taps not working 
Great Lakes said that the claim was not an emergency as defined by the policy terms. It has 
supplied a report from its engineer that said the problem was with a hot tap not flowing as 
well as it should. Great Lakes maintained that this is not classed as an emergency and 
therefore is not something covered by Mr Ps policy. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. He thought the policy terms supported Great 
Lakes stance that this was not an emergency. He felt the company had acted fairly when 
declining to carry out repair work. 
Mr P disagreed. 
The matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint. I realise this is not what he wanted to 
hear, but I hope my explanation helps him to understand why. 
Mr P has a type of insurance known as home emergency. His policy booklet, on page one, 
says the cover is designed to, safeguard homeowners in case they have an emergency in 
their home. 
The policy provides different levels of cover dependent on the options chosen. Mr P chose to 
include cover for plumbing issues. This is described in the policy booklet as Plumbing 
Protect. The definition says, Plumbing Protect safeguards you against various emergencies 
you may have with your plumbing or drains. 
The emphasis for both the overall description of the cover, and in the description of the 
optional plumbing feature, is that the policy safeguards against emergencies.  
Further into the policy booklet under Section 2 it sets out what is covered by Plumbing 
Protect. This says:
What is covered under Section 2; We will cover an emergency or breakdown in your home if 
it is caused by: ...taps not working.
Under the section Meaning of Words on page one of the booklet it defines emergency as:
a sudden or unexpected event at your home which, if not dealt with straight away will:
be a risk to your health,
make your home unsafe or insecure,
cause damage or more damage to your home or its contents, or 
leave your home without main services or your main source of heating.
Emergency repair is defined as, means a temporary repair that is carried out by an 
approved contractor to stop the immediate emergency and prevent further damage. This will 
need to be replaced by a permanent repair.
The policy booklet provides a definition of breakdown as, an electrical, mechanical or 
permanent fault which causes the failure or burning out of any part covered by this policy.
In its final response to Mr P, Great Lakes said the issue was not deemed to be an 
emergency. It says this is why it did not uphold the complaint. Mr P argued that the policy 
covers breakdown as well as emergency issues. Our investigator asked Great Lakes to 
comment further on this. Specifically, he asked if Mr Ps tap should be covered under 
breakdown within the terms relating to plumbing issues.  
Great Lakes responded to say that non-emergency breakdown cover has never been in 
place. It said, although taps not working is covered, there still has to be an emergency or a 
breakdown as defined for the cover to kick in. It says the policy does not cover non-
emergency breakdowns such as the claim made by Mr P. 
The report provided by Great Lakes engineer says, The hot tap on the right hand basin isn't 
flowing as well as it should, or as good as the right hand basin (not an emergency). The filter 
on the tap had scaled solid, can't spin it out. Scraped some scale off of the nozzle which 
improved the flow. New filter and cartridge required to fix this slight loss of flow issue.
Mr P described the problem as a hot tap that was not working. This is slightly different to the 
engineers report of a tap that isnt flowing as well as it should. Mr P has also disputed the 
engineers view that the problem was due to scaling. However, this point is not of relevance 
to my decision, as Ill explain below. 
Having reviewed the information, it is clear from the first page of the policy booklet that this 
cover is intended to safeguard against emergencies. 
Later sections of the policy booklet do refer to breakdown. However, it is established 
clearly, and on the first page of the booklet, that cover is provided for emergencies and this 
is repeated within the four optional sections. Plumbing Protect falls within the optional 
section and as I said, this is described as a safeguard against plumbing emergencies. 
There are other references in the policy booklet that also support the intended purpose for 
emergencies. Page two under Our Aims says:
We aim:to give quick, expert help whenever you have an emergency in your home; and
to get an approved contractor to you as quickly as possible, every time an emergency 
happens.
The section, Understanding your policy and how your cover works is also helpful here in 
explaining what is not covered, and again states cover is provided for emergencies. It says, 
This is an emergency assistance policy that protects homeowners from different 
emergencies that can happen to their homes.
I understand Mr Ps point. He felt the policy wording in the plumbing option under section 
two, by including breakdown meant the the issue with his tap, although not an 
emergency, was covered. However, my view is the policy booklet does clearly define the 
policy as covering emergencies in the home. This is repeated for the optional plumbing 
cover and throughout the booklet.  
Given the initial and repeated reference to the policy intending to safeguard home owners 
against emergency, it is reasonable to conclude that for a claim to be successful it must 
first be considered an emergency. 
As confirmed earlier the policy definition of emergency is, a sudden or unexpected event 
at your home which, if not dealt with straight away will:
be a risk to your health,
make your home unsafe or insecure,
cause damage or more damage to your home or its contents, or 
leave your home without main services or your main source of heating.
I agree with Great Lakes view that the hot tap issue was not an emergency as defined by 
the policy terms. For these reasons I do not think Great Lakes has acted unfairly in relying 
on the terms of the policy and declining Mr Ps claim.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman