DRN-2658459
The complaint
Mr N complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt send him notification of a reduction to 
its interest rates in respect of his savings account. 
What happened
In April 2020 Nationwide sent notice to all relevant customers of a reduction to its interest 
rate in respect of its savings accounts. This was reduced from 2% to 0.5% and took effect 
from 1 May 2020.
Mr N had an account with Nationwide and when he checked his online account in July 2020, 
he noticed the interest rate had changed. He complained to Nationwide saying he hadnt 
received any notice of the reduction. He wanted to be compensated by receiving the 2% rate 
from 1 May 2020 until he closed his account following Nationwides final response letter in 
August 2020.
Nationwide rejected Mr Ns complaint. It said that Mr N along with other customers who held 
over £100 in their account, were sent notice of the interest rate change. It said that no error 
had been made in Mr Ns case.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. She noted that as a variable 
interest rate account, Nationwide were entitled under its terms and conditions to change the 
rate with fourteen days notice. She noted that Nationwide had sent notices to relevant 
customers between 6 and 15 April 2020 and that Mr N was included on the list of customers 
that were sent a letter about the change. She considered, on balance, that Mr N received the 
notice from Nationwide.
Mr N disagreed. He said that he would have remembered receiving the notice if itd been 
sent. He asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Im satisfied Nationwide were entitled to change its interest rates in the way that it 
did. This is clearly set out in the terms and conditions of Mr Ns savings account. As a 
variable interest rate account, Nationwide could change this at any time with the 
required notice.
As Mr N had over £100 in his savings account, Im satisfied he should have been 
sent this notice  again, this is set out in the terms and conditions.
I note Nationwide says that Mr N would have been sent notice before the interest rate 
reduction and a second letter would have been sent advising the rates had dropped. 
Mr N says he didnt receive any communication about this and only found out about 
the change when he logged into his online account in July 2020.
However, I can see Nationwide records show Mr N was on the list (a data log) of 
customers who were sent a notice about the reduction. And that this notice was sent 
between 6 and 15 April 2020 which was two weeks prior to the change on 1 May 
2020. As the notice was sent as part of a mass mailing, it would not have been 
included in Mr Ns contact notes with Nationwide. But Im satisfied the evidence 
supports that Mr N was included in the customers that were sent notice of the change 
to the interest rates.
I see from Nationwides records that Mr Ns address is correct. Ive taken into 
account that the majority of correctly addressed mail is correctly delivered, and Ive 
not been told about any problems Mr N had in receiving his post. In fact, Mr N says 
that hes never had any problems with his postal service. So although I accept its 
possible that Mr N didnt receive the letter, I must assess what is more likely to have 
happened on the balance of probabilities. And I think its more likely than not that the 
notice was both sent and delivered to Mr Ns postal address.
I appreciate that Mr N thinks Nationwide should have used other communication 
methods as well as post to notify him of the reduction  he says this would have 
ensured it reached him. I can see that for customers with less than £100 in their 
accounts, provision is made for them to see this information via the Nationwide 
website and also in its branches. So whilst Mr N was sent a notice by post, this 
information was also communicated to all Nationwide customers via its website and 
in its branches. All in all, I think Nationwide has taken reasonable steps to 
communicate the reduction in interest rates to Mr N. 
For all these reasons, although I understand Mr Ns frustrations, Im not upholding the 
complaint and make no award.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman