DRN-2949478
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Acasta European Insurance Company Limited. He isnt 
happy that it turned down a claim under his furniture insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M bought a reclining leather chair and took out insurance with Acasta. A few years later 
he had a problem with the arm of the chair after hot water had spilled from a hot water bottle. 
And so he made a claim under his policy. 
Acasta sent an engineer to have a look at the chair. But their report concluded that the 
damage was caused by wear and tear which wasnt covered under the policy, so it declined 
the claim. As Mr M wasnt happy about this he complained to Acasta and then this service. 
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought that Acasta 
hadnt done anything wrong as the policy didnt cover wear and tear. And he didnt feel that 
Acasta had acted unreasonably in following the engineers advice.
As Mr M didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment 
to Mr M but as our investigator explained there isnt sufficient evidence to support his 
position. 
I know Mr M has strong feelings about how the damage was caused to his chair and I can 
understand that. I know he feels that the spillage of hot water on the arm caused the peeling 
of the leather. 
But Acasta appointed an expert who called out to Mr Ms address, surveyed the chair and 
concluded that the damage was caused by wear and tear over a period of time. They 
identified that the damage caused to the arm of the chair had caused the top coat of the 
leather to peel around the elbow contact area. And that hot water will not cause peeling 
such as this. The expert went on to say that this area has been affected with elbow contact 
through use over time suggesting that the pigment started to lift and peel around the elbow 
contact area. And that the surrounding leather showed dirt within the grain. 
The policy specifically excludes cover for wear and tear which it defines as the gradual 
deterioration associated with normal use and age of the product. So, without any 
independent evidence to support Mr Ms position I cant say that Acasta has done anything 
wrong in turning down the claim. But as our investigator highlighted if Mr M gets any 
independent evidence to support his position then I would expect Acasta to consider this. 
So, despite my natural sympathy for Mr M, I dont think Acasta has done anything wrong and 
so Im not asking it to do anything further.   
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman