DRN-3835309
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice given by Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited 
to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes he would be in a 
better, and more secure, position if he had remained in the DB scheme. He says this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the DB pension scheme) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was 
closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated 
Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if 
risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ps employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices 
was 11 December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr P approached Acumen in January 2018 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. He 
was also concerned about the situation with his employer and the BSPS. 
Acumen recorded that Mr P had elected to join the BSPS2 whilst he was recieving advice 
about his pension arrangements. 
Acumen completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ps circumstances and 
objectives. This showed that Mr P was aged 28 and married. He had no dependent children. 
He was employed full time earning around £30,000 a year plus overtime. He held around 
£10,000 on deposit. Mrs P was also working full time and a contributing member of a DB 
scheme. She held an investment portfolio with a value of around £100,000. They owned 
their own home which was subject to a mortgage.
Acumen also carried out an assessment of Mr Ps attitude to risk, which said was six on a 
scale of one to ten or medium - high. His capacity for loss was recorded as being small. 
In respect of Mr Ps pension arrangements: 
Mr P had received a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from the BSPS in October 
2017. This showed that he had over eight years service in the BSPS. He was entitled to a 
pension of about £3,800 per year at the date of leaving the scheme. The CETV was about 
£79,900.  
Mr P had also joined his employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme. He was 
contributing 6% of his salary into this and his employer was contributing 10%. 
On 9 February 2018, Acumen advised Mr P to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds in funds that it said matched his attitude to risk. The 
suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were:
To help Mr P retire early, possibly at age 58. 
He was keen to provide a legacy for his wife.
He wanted to have value for money and flexibility and he was prepared to forego the 
guaranteed income in order to potentially access his pension early or when he 
wanted to. 
He had concerns about the long-term operation of his employer. 
Mr P complained in May 2022 to about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said that he 
was of the sound belief that he would have been in a better more secure financial position if 
he had moved to the BSPS2. He didnt think the downsides to the personal pension were 
made clear. 
Acumen didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said that the transfer was suitable and was in 
Mr Ps best interests. Mr Ps circumstances were properly and fully assessed and he was 
given full information about the DB transfer. 
Mr P referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An Investigator upheld the 
complaint and recommended that Acumen perform a loss assessment, and pay 
compensation, if this showed that Mr P had suffered a loss due to the transfer. This was 
because he thought that the advice would likely lead to Mr P having lower retirement 
benefits. It was too early to plan for flexibility in his retirement and he should have been 
advised to concentrate on his own retirement income rather than the different death benefits 
a personal pension could offer. 
Acumen initially didnt respond to the Investigators opinion and so both parties were 
informed that an ombudsman would consider the complaint in due course. 
The industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has since developed a 
BSPS-specific redress calculator. And Acumen has now confirmed that it would be prepared 
to do a loss calculation using this calculator.  
That said, as far as I can see, Acumen hasnt performed a loss assessment yet and 
agreement hasnt been reached by both sides, even though Acumen has said that in 
principle it will calculate if any compensation is due to Mr P. So, Ive looked at whether the 
advice was suitable for Mr P and how Acumen should put this right if it isnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Acumen's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Acumen 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ps best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator. Ill explain why. 
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that Acumen was required to carry out by 
the regulator, said that the critical yield - how much Mr Ps pension fund would need 
to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme  was 
6.7% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 
65. To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid from 65 the critical yield was 
5.4%. There wasnt any analysis done for retirement at different ages, or if Mr P took 
tax-free cash. 
Despite the fact it was known by the point Acumen instructed the TVAS that 
continuing in the BSPS in its existing form wasnt an option for Mr P, the analysis was 
based on the BSPS benefits. And Acumen didnt undertake any analysis of the 
benefits hed have been due under the BSPS2, even though details were available 
and Mr P had elected to join the BSPS2. I think it shouldve done this. In any event, 
given what we know about the BSPS2, I think the critical yields to match the benefits 
the BSPS2 wouldve provided from age 65 were likely to be between those of the 
BSPS and the PPF.
Given Mr Ps recorded balanced attitude to risk, the discount rate of 4.7% for 36 
years to retirement and the regulators middle projection rate, I think Mr P was always 
likely to receive pension benefits, from age 65, of a lower value that those hed have 
been entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF by transferring and investing in line with 
that attitude to risk. And if Mr P wanted to retire early its likely that these critical 
yields would be higher still and he would be even more likely to receive lower 
benefits than either the BSPS2 or the PPF. And the suitability report noted that transferring to a personal pension was unlikely to 
achieve the relevant critical yields in order to match the benefits of the DB scheme. 
Acumen said that, from an investment perspective the transfer wasnt feasible. In 
other words Acumen recognised that transferring would most likely mean Mr P would 
be worse off in retirement by transferring. So, I think the transfer wasnt in Mr Ps best 
interests for this reason. 
Acumen said the transfer was suitable for Mr P as it allowed him to potentially retire 
early and to access his pension flexibly. And he was prepared to receive a lower 
income to do this. It is true to say the personal pension could be more flexible, as 
from the DB scheme Mr P would have to take any tax-free cash he wanted at the 
same time as he took an income. He wouldnt have had to do this in the personal 
pension. 
But the first problem with this is that Mr P was only 29 at the time of the advice, and 
based on what Ive seen he, understandably, didnt have any defined retirement 
plans. Other than a generic want to retire early if possible. So, I dont think it was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr P to give up his guaranteed benefits now when he 
didnt know what his needs in retirement would be. I think it was too soon to make 
any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. 
And if Acumen had advised Mr P to stay in the BSPS2 and he decided he needed 
greater flexibility than the scheme provided later on, then he could have chosen to 
transfer from that scheme nearer to his retirement age.
Secondly, I understand that Mr P and his employer had begun contributing to a 
recently set up DC pension scheme. Mr P and his employer were together 
contributing around 16% of Mr Ps salary to that pension. Given the amounts that 
was being invested, that his salary and contributions would likely increase over time 
and investment returns would increase all of this, Mr P would likely build up a 
significant amount of money in the DC scheme. 
This would provide Mr P with flexibility  he wasnt committed to take the benefits in a 
set way. Mr P could have taken lump sums as and when required and adjusted the 
income he took from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr P retained his DB 
pension, this combined with his new workplace pension, would have likely given him 
the flexibility to retire early - if that was what he ultimately decided to do. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr P needed to transfer to increase the flexibility in 
how he took his pension benefits at this time.
Acumen said Mr P was keen to provide a legacy for Mrs P. But the priority here was 
to advise Mr P about what was best for his retirement. And as a start the existing 
scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses pension, that couldve been 
valuable to his wife in the event of his death.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by any income Mr P drew in his lifetime. And so may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr P may have thought it would.
Furthermore, Mrs P doesnt seem to have been dependent on Mr Ps income. She 
was employed full time herself and had her own significant investment portfolio and DB pension provision. And whilst it can be problematic to rely on potential 
inheritances it was noted that she was expecting to receive over a million pounds in 
the future from her family. Overall, I dont think there was any need for Mr P to 
provide a legacy here, such that it was reasonable to advise him to limit his own 
retirement provisions in order to provide this.  
But if Mr P had still wanted to do this, Acumen couldve explored life insurance as an 
alternative. And this couldve been considered on a whole of life or term assurance 
basis  which was likely to be cheaper. But there's little evidence Acumen did so.  
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr P. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately Acumen should not have 
encouraged Mr P to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.
I also think Mr Ps desire for control over how his pension was invested was 
overstated. I cant see that he an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage 
his pension funds on his own. And the recommendation seems to have been given 
on the basis hed receive, and pay for, ongoing support with his pension. So, I dont 
think that this was a genuine objective for Mr P  it was simply a consequence of 
transferring away from his DB scheme.
Mr P may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was Acumens role to objectively 
address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed toward the 
BSPS2 being fully established. But even if not, the PPF still provided Mr P with 
guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free cash. Mr P was unlikely to 
improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as 
concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this 
meant that transferring was in his best interests.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ps best interests to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr P wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB 
scheme. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr P received from Acumen 
was unsuitable for him.
Our Investigator recommended that Acumen also pay Mr P £300 for the distress caused by 
the unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr P has been caused distress and concern in 
relation to his retirement planning. Finding out that he may receive less in retirement would 
have caused him some distress as he says. And this is particularly given the circumstances 
under which the transfer took place. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for 
the unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator 
recommended is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr P would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and moved to the BSPS2, as he'd 
already chosen to do, if suitable advice had been given. Acumen must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Acumen should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr P and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what 
Acumen based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr P has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ps 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Acumen should:
calculate and offer Mr P redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr P before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment his 
DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr P receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr P accepts Acumens offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr P for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ps end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr P as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Acumen may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments 
to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ps likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Acumen should pay Mr P £300 for the distress and inconvenience its advice gave him. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited pays Mr P the balance.
If Mr P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman