DRN-4215638
The complaint
Mrs N has complained that Canada Life Limited (Canada Life) failed to consider new 
medical evidence in relation to her previously declined income protection claim.
What happened
Mrs N had an income protection policy underwritten by Canada Life. 
She made a claim which was declined by Canada Life. She complained about the decline of 
her claim and referred her complaint to this Service under a separate reference number. A 
different Ombudsman decided that complaint was made out of time and was therefore out of 
jurisdiction. 
Mrs N sent further medical evidence to Canada Life in 2020 and complained that it refused 
to consider her new evidence despite promising to do so. She referred her complaint to this 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt agree that Canada Life had failed to 
review the new evidence and didnt think it had acted unreasonably.
Mrs N disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
She doesnt understand why this Service cant ask Canada Life to look into new 
evidence past May 2019.
As soon as medical evidence was available, this was sent to Canada Life. 
The previous complaint was made prematurely before her diagnosis was completed. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
But first I must make it clear that my decision is limited to Canada Lifes actions in relation to 
the new medical evidence Mrs N submitted to it following its previous decline of her claim. I 
cannot revisit the previous complaint or previous decision. So that means I cannot comment 
on whether or not the claim was declined unfairly. I will only consider whether Canada Life 
reviewed Mrs Ns new medical evidence and whether it responded to her appropriately.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. 
I have seen that Mrs N provided new medical evidence to Canada Life in 2020. Canada Life 
responded to Mrs N and confirmed it would review the new evidence. 
Following an exchange of correspondence between August 2020 and January 2021, 
Canada Life responded to Mrs N in October 2020 and January 2021 explaining why the new 
medical evidence didnt change its opinion on the claim. I cannot comment on whether that 
conclusion was a fair one without revisiting the original claim decision. And I have already 
confirmed I cannot revisit the original claim decision.
The only thing I can consider is whether Canada Life reviewed Mrs Ns new medical 
evidence and responded to her appropriately. 
Having considered all the communication, I am satisfied that Canada Life did review Mrs Ns 
medical evidence and explained why its decision hadnt changed. 
Furthermore, I am satisfied that Canada Life has clearly explained to Mrs N that it will no 
longer consider any further appeal to its decision. I dont think that is an unreasonable 
position to take, taking into account the length of time since it first declined the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman