DRN-4121617
The complaint
Mr R and the estate of Mr R complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc poorly conducted a 
safeguarding review and closed his account using unreasonable grounds.
What happened
Mr Rs father passed away in 2010 without a will and Mr R was appointed as the 
representative of the estate. In February 2013, Mr R opened a community account with 
HSBC in order to disperse future income accrued by his late father to the beneficiaries of the 
estate. 
In 2021 Mr R was contacted by HSBC as they were conducting routine safeguarding reviews 
on business accounts, which the community account fell under. Despite conversations with 
HSBC, Mr R was unsure what information they required to complete their safeguarding 
review and was sent multiple letters in which HSBC said he had not provided what they 
needed. 
Eventually, HSBC said that as the administration of the estate had been completed more 
than eight years prior, they could no longer justify Mr R having a community account which 
was intended for administrators/executors/trustees. Because of this, they issued a notice of 
closure in September 2021, access to the account was withdrawn in December 2021, and it 
was closed in January 2022. HSBC explained that a Will Trust account would be a more 
suitable account but did offer Mr R £100 compensation for the poor customer service he 
received during the safeguarding review. 
Mr R referred the complaint to our service as he felt the community account had been closed 
in retaliation for him expressing his dissatisfaction with the safeguarding review. In addition, 
the closing funds in the account of £111.90 had been sent in a cheque with the incorrect 
name, meaning he could not cash it. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and felt that Mr R had not been given a fair notice 
of closure as they felt the community account had not been the most suitable account for   
Mr Rs needs in 2013. So, he therefore could not have provided the information needed 
during the safeguarding review. In light of this, they recommended compensation of £350 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused, as well as 8% interest on the £111.90 from 
6 January 2022 when Mr R should have had access to the funds. 
HSBC agreed to the recommendations however Mr R remained unhappy. In summary, Mr R 
felt the account had been closed due to unfair bias and felt we should direct HSBC to re-
open it. He felt the closure notice and decision was unfair as he was unable to provide the 
information they requested. Mr R highlighted that he has not been able to receive royalty 
payments into the account since it was closed and that the compensation amount should be 
higher.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the recommendation of £350 compensation as well as 8% simple 
interest on the closing balance is fair in the circumstances. And I dont instruct HSBC to re-
open the community account. Ill explain why in more detail. For simplicity, Ill refer only to  
Mr R in this decision. 
Mr R opened the account in 2013; on the application form completed by HSBC it stated the 
principle activity of the business was trustee to the late Mr Rs estate. Mr R has said that 
the purpose of the account was for the ongoing administration of the estate as he had to 
continue to distribute royalties from the account. 
HSBC has since said that while it was appropriate to provide community accounts to 
executors, trustees and administrators, these were intended to be for short term use while 
the affairs of the estate were being sorted. It therefore appears that the community account 
was not suitable for Mr Rs needs, as he required an account for ongoing use to distribute 
royalties following the estates affairs being finalised. 
As a result, I think Mr R should have been given a more suitable account in 2013 that could 
have been used on a long-term basis. Mr R has said the Will Trust account that HSBC has 
suggested as an alternative would not be suitable as it would cost him in legal fees to set up 
and maintain. While I do think the community account wasnt the most suitable account for 
Mr R, I also have to consider that it was a free account. So, while I recognise its closure in 
2022 has been an inconvenience, on balance I dont think that prior to that point Mr R has 
been disadvantaged as a result of having the community account. As it allowed him to 
distribute funds to the beneficiaries of the estate at no additional cost. And it should be noted 
that HSBC are not obliged as a business to provide these kind of banking services for free.  
I think that the safeguarding review was a largely automated process that was not fit for 
purpose for Mr Rs specific circumstances. This has led to confusion on HSBCs part as to 
what they needed from Mr R and generic letters being sent to Mr R that did not suit his 
situation. Its therefore clear that this was a frustrating and stressful situation for Mr R who 
was trying to be proactive. 
As a result of the poor safeguarding review, Mr R was sent closure notices which also asked 
for information he could not provide. And I recognise that, as a result, he thinks these were 
not valid notices of closure. I agree that the closure notices did ask Mr R to provide 
information that had not been specified and I think this is related to the automated nature of 
the safeguarding review. 
My role is to put Mr R back in the position he would have been in had an error not been 
made. In this circumstance, had HSBC correctly set out the notice of closure, they likely 
would have explained that they did not feel the type of account was suitable for Mr Rs needs 
and therefore intended to close it, but would give two months notice, as per the terms and 
conditions of the account. Because of this, I think Mr R is in the same position he would have 
been in had the notice of closure been set out correctly, and I dont direct HSBC to re-open 
the account.Having carefully considered all of the information available to me, I think the 
recommendation of £350 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience the 
safeguarding review has had on Mr R is in line with what I would have recommended. While 
I do think the safeguarding review process has caused Mr R upset, I still think it was 
reasonable for HSBC to make the decision to close the account in question so I do not agree 
it should re-open it. I recognise that Mr R has not had access to the closing balance as 
HSBC issued it to the title of the account, instead of Mr Rs name. And I agree that HSBC 
should pay Mr R the closing balance, as well as 8% simple interest from 6 January 2022 to 
the date of payment. 
Mr R has also requested that HSBC include the royalty payments that have not been 
credited to the account since it was closed. Ive thought about this, and I dont agree HSBC 
should include these in the redress. I say this because I think HSBC gave notice that it would 
close the account, so Mr R had over two months to find an alternative way to receive the 
royalties.     
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr R £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience 
caused. And they should pay him the closing balance of £111.90 plus 8% simple interest 
from 6 January 2022 to the date of payment.     
My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint in part and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay the redress as 
outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and the 
estate of Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman