DRN-2260820
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Calpe Insurance Company Limited avoided (treated it as if it never 
existed) his motor insurance policy and refused to pay his claim following the theft of his car. 
He wants it to allow him to pay an increased premium and to settle his claim. 
What happened
Mr A took out a motor insurance policy with Calpe in 2017 which auto-renewed in 2018 and 
2019. When his car was stolen from outside his house, he tried to claim on his policy. 
Calpe declined Mr As claim, avoided his policy and kept the premiums hed already paid. 
When Mr A complained it said hed answered the question hed been asked about his 
previous motoring convictions incorrectly. And that it considered this to be a deliberate or 
reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy and refuse his 
claim. But Mr A thought he was being treated unfairly because of an administrative error on 
his part. He thought the policy hadnt been explained to him properly when it auto-renewed.
Mr A brought his complaint to us, but our investigator didnt recommend that it should be 
upheld. He agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and he thought this was 
deliberate or reckless. So he didnt think Calpe had acted unfairly in declining the claim and 
avoiding the policy.  
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Mr A 
thought Calpe should have known about his conviction.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Calpe thinks Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
didnt disclose a motoring conviction at the renewals of his policy in 2018 and 2019. And Ive 
looked at the question he was asked when he completed the application and I agree he 
failed to take reasonable care. 
This is because he was asked in his renewal documents to tell Calpe about any changes, 
including motoring convictions. Mr As policy documents then asked him to check that all his 
information was accurate. The policy also required Mr A to tell Calpe immediately about any 
changes including motoring convictions. So I think Calpe asked Mr A sufficiently clearly to 
tell it about any motoring convictions. No motoring convictions were disclosed. 
But Mr A had a DR40 offence resulting in 10 points on his licence in August 2017 which I 
think he should have disclosed. And I think this means Mr A failed to take reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation when he didnt declare his motoring conviction. 
Mr A said he thought Calpe should have known about the conviction. But I disagree. I think it 
was for Mr A to disclose it when asked. He had a duty under CIDRA to take reasonable care 
to answer all questions as fully and accurately as possible. 
Calpe has provided evidence from its underwriting criteria which shows that if Mr A had not 
made this misrepresentation it would have at least charged him a higher premium. This 
means I am satisfied Mr As misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
I also think Mr As misrepresentation was a reckless or deliberate misrepresentation. This is 
because I think Mr A must have realised that he had this serious conviction. Hed had to 
attend court and pay a large fine. 
The conviction wasnt present on his policy documents at renewal when he was asked to 
check them for accuracy. And when Mr A was interviewed by Calpes claims investigator, he 
admitted that the insurer didnt know about the conviction. So I think Mr A must have known 
that he should have declared the conviction, but hed chosen not to do this. 
Therefore, Im satisfied Calpe was entitled to avoid Mr As policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Calpe does not have to deal 
with his claim following the theft of his car and it can retain his premiums. And  as CIDRA 
reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Calpe to 
rely on it to avoid Mr As policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Phillip BerechreeOmbudsman