DRN-2512304
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy Tesco Personal Finance PLC wont refund payments she made as part of 
a scam.
  
What happened
Mrs M developed a relationship with someone she met through an online dating application. 
He claimed to be working on an oil rig and, though the two hadnt met, he promised hed visit 
her  even showing airline tickets that had apparently been booked. Unfortunately for Mrs M, 
she was actually communicating with a fraudster.
An elaborate story followed  the fraudster needed to purchase a crucial part for the oil rig 
and was unable to do so himself. Mrs M was asked, and agreed, to purchase the part. 
Rather than simply giving the money to the fraudster, she believed she was communicating 
directly with the retailer of the part  seemingly a U.K. based company.
It claimed she couldnt make the payment using a credit card, only using a different financial 
business specialising in international payments, which Ill call T. Mrs M says that she was 
guided through every stage of the process.
On 11 December 2020, Mrs M instructed T to make a payment of £2,610 to an individual in 
another country, which she funded using her Tesco credit card. The payment was stopped 
by Tesco for security reasons and she confirmed, by text, that she was making the 
transaction.
She instructed T to make a second payment on 13 December 2020, this time of £6,090 and 
again funded by her Tesco credit card. 
Tesco blocked the transaction and her card until they could speak to Mrs M. She called and 
asked Tesco to remove the block on the card. During the conversation, Tescos adviser 
asked her some security questions and about previous use of the card. The adviser did not 
make any enquiries about the transaction she was attempting to make and, following the 
call, Mrs M successfully completed the transaction.
After the Tesco transactions Mrs M tried to make further payments using a bank account 
held at a different bank. She says that they asked her questions about the payment she was 
trying to make. Though shed been given, and gave, the other bank a cover story  saying 
the payment was for her brother-in-law, they questioned her further and the scam came to 
light. 
Mrs M complained to Tesco. It said that as she had made the payments herself, it wouldnt 
refund them.
Mrs M asked our service to look into the complaint and one of our investigators upheld it in 
part. They didnt think Tesco was obliged to do any more than it had done in relation to the 
first transaction but, for the second, they thought Tesco ought to have asked further 
questions and, if they had done, the scam would have come to light and been prevented. 
They pointed to the fact that another bank had done just that. 
Tesco disagreed, in summary, it said:
- Mrs M confidently and assertively asked for the restrictions in relation to the second 
transaction to be removed
- Tesco didnt transfer the money to the fraudster, another authorised financial 
business did. So, Tescos only role in the matter was to facilitate transactions which 
funded Mrs Ms own account. 
- The matter may simply be a dispute between Mrs M and the person she transferred 
the money to. Theres no evidence this was a scam.
- According to information provided to them, Mrs M misled her bank about the purpose 
of another payment she made to the fraudster, so theres no reason to think she 
would have answered honestly had Tesco asked her the same questions.
- Mrs M did not tell them that she was prevented from carrying out further transactions 
using a different bank account after she made the payments using her Tesco credit 
card. This information did not form part of their review of the complaint and it wouldnt 
be fair for our service to decide a complaint based on information which they havent 
had a chance to review.
Overall Tesco felt the expectations the investigator placed on it were unreasonable and it 
couldnt be expected to interrogate its customer.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, its necessary to say that Im overwhelmingly persuaded that this was a scam. The 
circumstances, as Ive set out in the background to this complaint, have all the hallmarks of a 
common type of scam. 
Im also satisfied that Tesco have had a chance to review information which it says is new  
that another bank successfully intervened to stop her making payments after she made the 
transactions in dispute here. Though I note that Tescos original submissions suggest a 
different series of events, it hasnt provided any evidence to support this claim. Our 
investigator has specifically asked Mrs M about the timeline of events and, in the absence of 
evidence to the contrary, Im persuaded by her testimony which has otherwise been 
consistent and plausible. 
Its also necessary to address Tescos arguments in relation to whether they or T ought to 
bear responsibility for what happened. Having reviewed the evidence carefully, I think theres 
an important distinction to make here. The other financial business appears to offer two 
different services to customers:
- An electronic money account, which can be topped up, used for everyday spending 
and used to make international payments.
- A service that allows customers to instruct individual payments funded by either a 
bank transfer or plastic card.
Based on the evidence Ive been provided with, Im persuaded that Mrs M used the second 
service and I think thats significant. Though it remains true that T ultimately made the 
payment to the fraudster, Mrs M did not transfer her money into her account at T and then 
transfer it on to the fraudster. Seemingly the payments were executed by a single instruction 
from Mrs M.
It follows that, if it can be established that Tesco ought to have intervened to prevent either 
transaction from taking place, then the payments would not have reached the fraudster and I can fairly say that its failure caused Mrs Ms loss. So, Ive gone onto consider Tescos 
actions in relation to each transaction. 
While this was a sophisticated scam, Mrs M used her security credentials to request the 
payment. So, although she did not intend the money to go to the fraudsters, under the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, Mrs M is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Tesco should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute that Tesco did find both transactions to be unusual enough for it to 
contact Mrs M. Like the investigator, I dont think the first transaction necessarily indicated 
Mrs M was at risk of financial harm. I think the step Tesco did take  to contact Mrs M and 
confirm she was carrying out the transaction was proportionate and fair, considering the size 
and nature of the transaction. 
However, the second transaction was not only significantly larger, but it used almost all of 
her credit balance. Again, its not really in dispute that this payment was unusual  thats 
seemingly what prompted Tesco to block the account. The dispute is about whether Tescos 
actions were adequate once a risk had been identified.
The purpose of the conversation between Mrs M and Tesco following the second payment 
was not to discuss that specific transaction, but seemingly rather to establish whether Mrs M 
had been recently using the card. I dont think that line of questioning was adequate here, 
regardless of how assertive or confident she might have been about having the block 
removed. It failed to consider, despite the size of the payment, the possibility that Mrs M was 
at risk of financial harm from fraud. Tesco ought, in the circumstances, to have attempted to 
establish the facts around the payment.
The obvious starting point would be what the payment was for, why Mrs M was, over the 
course of two transactions, using almost her entire credit balance and why she was sending 
money through T to another country. 
It appears that Mrs M would have given some sort of cover story if asked, just as she did 
when another bank questioned the payments she was making. But I dont think she would 
have been able to give convincing answers to those questions. Her account of what 
happened when the other bank asked about the payments shows how fragile that cover 
story was. It took just one question in that case  whether she was really paying who she 
said she was for the story to unravel. 
And, while I dont suggest Tesco ought to have second guessed the reasons she gave or 
have interrogated her, Im persuaded that it would have just taken some simple questions for the story to unravel and, had that happened, the truth of the situation should have 
immediately alerted Tesco to the fact Mrs M was the victim of a scam, as it would have come 
to light that:
- She was sending money to another country for the purchase of an oil rig part on 
behalf of someone shed developed a relationship with but never met. 
- Though the fraudster had gone to fairly elaborate lengths to convince Mrs M she was 
purchasing a part from a genuine company, theres no evidence that company 
actually existed. And, though the company was supposedly based in the U.K., it 
couldnt take a credit card payment and asked that the money was sent to an 
individual in another country. 
Overall, I dont think Mrs Ms cover story would have held up to any simple probing questions 
and I think its likely that the scam would have come to light and, consequently, Mrs M would 
not have lost £6,090. 
Ive thought about whether Mrs M should bear some responsibility for what happened by 
way of contributory negligence. While elements of what Mrs M believed might seem far-
fetched, its important to consider those requests in the context of what Mrs M thought was a 
relationship, which had been built over time. As mentioned, the fraudsters went to some 
considerable lengths to convince her of the legitimacy of the requests they made and I can 
understand why, without any knowledge of scams of this nature, Mrs M found this 
convincing. So, Im satisfied there should be no deduction for contributory negligence. On 
the other hand, with its experience and knowledge of this type of scam, Tesco would have 
been able to quickly identify that Mrs M was the victim of fraud. 
Therefore, Tesco should fairly and reasonably reimburse the second disputed transaction - 
£6,090 without any deduction. In addition, it should put Mrs M, as far as is possible, back in 
the position she would have been had the transaction never taken place.   
My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold in part this 
complaint about Tesco Personal Finance PLC  and I therefore require it to:
Refund the £6,090 payment to Mrs Ms credit card account within 28 days of 
receiving notification of her acceptance of my final decision; plus
Refund any interest and charges accrued as a result of that payment to Mrs Ms 
credit card account
If the above results in a credit balance, that balance should be paid to Mrs M; plus
8% simple interest per annum on the payments Mrs M has made which would have 
resulted in a credit balance had the £6,090 transaction not taken place  from the 
date of those payments to the date of settlement
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Ms credit file which has been reported as 
a result of the £6,090 payment
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman