DRN-3883991
The complaint
Miss R complains that Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd unfairly rejected a 
claim she made on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss Rs car was stolen from where it was parked on the road outside her house. Miss R 
notified Berkshire of the theft. The car was recovered, but had been damaged. Miss R made 
a claim on her motor insurance policy.
Berkshire declined Miss Rs claim. It referred to paragraph 12.6 of her insurance policy:
Taking care of your car
You or any person in charge of your car must take reasonable precautions to:
Maintain your car in an efficient and roadworthy condition and ensure it is 
safe to drive; and 
Protect your car and its contents from damage or loss.
Berkshire said that since it was apparent that the door to Miss Rs house hadnt been locked 
when the keys were taken, shed failed in her responsibility under the policy to protect the 
car from damage or loss.
One of our investigators considered Miss Rs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. 
He said, in summary, that given that Miss Rs front door had been unlocked, he thought it 
was reasonable of Berkshire to conclude that she hadnt taken reasonable precautions to 
protect the car. So he didnt think it had been unfair to decline Miss Rs claim.
Miss R didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss R 
and to Berkshire on 29 November 2022. I explained that based on what Id seen so far, 
I thought Miss Rs complaint should be upheld. I said:
Berkshire turned down Miss Rs claim saying she didnt comply with the policy requirement 
to take all reasonable steps to protect her car from loss or damage.
Our approach in cases like this is that Berkshire would need to show that Miss R acted 
recklessly in order for it to be fair and reasonable to turn down her claim for this reason. 
This is in line with the leading case in this area, the Court of Appeals decision in Sofi v 
Prudential Assurance. The test to decide whether someone has acted recklessly has two 
parts:
First, the insurer must show that the insured recognised that there was a risk their car 
might be stolen;
Second, the insurer must show that, having recognised the risk, the insured took no 
action to prevent their car being stolen  or took actions which they knew were 
inadequate.
The test isnt what an average or reasonable consumer would have thought or done, but 
what the individual consumer thought or did at the time.
So if Berkshire wants to rely on the policy term its pointed to, its not enough for it to show 
that Miss R was careless. Instead, it needs to show that she recognised the risk of her car 
being stolen. Then it needs to show that she ignored that risk, or that she took steps to 
minimise the risk which she knew perfectly well were unlikely to be enough.
It isnt in dispute that the front door to Miss Rs house wasnt locked when a thief entered 
and stole her car key. But in my view, that doesnt automatically imply that she was reckless. 
Having thought carefully about what Miss R has said, both to us and to Berkshire, I think that 
she recognised that there was a general risk of car theft if sensible precautions werent taken 
to prevent it. But Im satisfied that she took what she regarded as sufficient action to prevent 
this. She left the car locked, with the windows closed. And she kept the key in her house, 
away from the car. I think she thought this was enough. It doesnt matter that she might have 
done things differently with the benefit of hindsight.
I acknowledge that Berkshire has commented that Miss Rs account of what happened 
hasnt been fully consistent. It says that she originally told it the front door was unlocked. But 
it says she later told it that shed locked the door, but that her daughter had unlocked it to let 
a pet out and there was some uncertainty as to whether she locked it again afterwards. She 
said her daughter had also popped out later in the evening, and couldnt remember whether 
shed locked the door as soon as she returned, or only later when she went to bed.
But I think that Miss R was simply trying to piece together the sequence of events in what 
was a stressful situation, and thats the most likely explanation for any apparent 
inconsistency.As it is, I dont need to know the precise sequence of events to make a decision on this 
complaint. I dont need to decide who failed to lock the door, or when  or for how long- it 
was left unlocked. The important thing here is that Miss R thought shed done enough to 
protect the car by leaving it locked with its windows closed and keeping the key in her house. 
There was no requirement in the policy to keep her house locked at all times, and Miss R 
didnt think it was necessary to go that far.
Given that I dont think that Berkshire has shown that Miss R was reckless in failing to 
protect her car from loss, I dont consider that it was fair of it to rely on the policy term to 
reject her claim.
I said that Berkshire should put things right by doing as Ive set out under the heading 
Putting things right below.
Further submissions
Miss R has told us shes happy with my provisional decision and has nothing further to add. 
Berkshire hasnt responded to my provisional decision, and the time for doing so has now 
expired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can see no reason to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
To put things right, Berkshire should:
Settle Miss Rs claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy;
If the settlement of Miss Rs claim involves a financial payment to Miss R, pay her 
interest on the amount paid at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of the theft 
to the date of payment*; and
Pay Miss R £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
*If Berkshire considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Miss R how much its taken off. And it should give her a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Berkshire Hathaway International 
Insurance Ltd to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman