DRN-3361264
The complaint
Mr C and Miss S complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) hasnt given 
them assistance under their home insurance policy, after their neighbours garden works 
caused problems in their garden.
What happened
Mr C and Miss S took out legal expenses cover as part of their home insurance. The legal 
expenses cover is underwritten by RSA, but claims are handled by a third-party agent. Its 
my understanding that Mr C and Miss S contacted the legal expenses helpline about the 
problems caused by their neighbours work, but they were directed to claim under their 
buildings cover in the first instance and told their legal cover was a last resort. 
Mr C and Miss S went on to make a claim under their buildings cover. They explained their 
garden was flooding and they were concerned their house would be affected. They also 
explained their neighbours raised garden isnt appropriately retained and its applying 
pressure to their fence, causing the gravel boards beneath to crack and bow.
RSA noted Mr C and Miss S hadnt taken out the optional garden cover, so the damage to 
their lawn wasnt covered. RSA also explained there wasnt a valid claim for their house 
unless damage was occurring to it, and at present, there wasnt evidence of that.
Mr C and Miss S brought their complaint to our service. They said they would like RSA to 
assess the problems and the structural implications, so they understand whats needed 
going forward, as per the legal expenses guidance they received.
Mr C and Miss S also told us about additional damage. They said the flooding has caused 
their shed floor to rot, and in addition to the gavel board damage, their fence posts are 
cracked. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. 
She noted RSA hadnt considered the fence or shed. However, RSA had since offered to 
consider those items separately, which she thought was fair. Mr C and Miss S remained 
unhappy, so their complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
After our investigators findings, Mr C and Miss S told us their paving is also damaged. They 
also explained they have found a pipe which has been diverted into their garden from their 
neighbours, which has caused the flooding. Finally, they pointed towards their legal 
expenses cover, and the assistance that should provide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not considering whether RSA needs to assist under the legal expenses cover. I accept 
Mr C and Miss S made a legal expenses enquiry, but I havent seen they have pursued a 
legal expenses claim.
I accept that by pursuing a buildings claim first, Mr C and Miss S were following the guidance 
they received. But it doesnt necessarily follow that they received poor guidance. It isnt for 
the third-party agent that handles legal expenses claims to say whether a buildings claim 
would succeed.
What Im considering here, is whether RSA fairly declined to assist Mr C and Miss S under 
their buildings cover, having made a buildings claim.
Mr C and Miss S told RSA their garden is flooding, and whilst the water hadnt yet reached 
their house, they are concerned their house is being affected. They also advised RSA they 
are concerned their fence will collapse, and the gravel boards are cracking and bowing.
Mr C and Miss S hold buildings cover, which covers damage caused by a flood. They also 
hold accidental damage to buildings cover. In my view, these are the insured events, or 
perils, that potentially apply (subject to the policy terms and exclusions).
However, the buildings cover doesnt include damage to lawns, and Mr C and Miss S dont 
hold the optional garden cover. So, Im satisfied the lawn damage was fairly declined. In 
any event, even if they held garden cover, I note flood damage to lawns and accidental 
damage to lawns are both excluded.
At the time of the claim, there was no evidence of damage to the house. I understand why 
Mr C and Miss S are concerned about structural implications, but unless theres evidence 
the house is being damaged, RSA isnt under an obligation to investigate as part of a 
buildings claim. 
Having said that, Mr C and Miss S have recently told us that their paving is now uneven due 
to the water underneath. I note patios, paved terraces, and footpaths are all covered under 
the buildings cover. As such, if that paving forms a patio, terrace, or footpath, there may be 
cover under the flood or accidental damage coverages. If so, in addition to covering the 
paving, and depending on how close the paving is to the house, RSA may now need to 
investigate if theres damage being caused to the house under the buildings cover.
Ive seen Mr C and Miss S did previously raise their fence, but I dont consider it appropriate 
to pre-empt RSAs claim decision. Likewise, I also dont consider it appropriate to pre-empt 
RSAs claim decision about the shed or paving. I havent seen sufficient information at this 
stage to reasonably decide whether claims for those items should succeed, or whether 
damage to the paving should result in further investigations in respect of the house.
So, in conclusion, I dont uphold Mr C and Miss Ss complaint. However, the parties should 
discuss the fence, shed, and paving in respect of the buildings claim, and the next steps in 
respect of a potential legal expenses claim. After doing so, if Mr C and Miss S remain 
unhappy, they can raise new complaints about those matters.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C and Miss S, but for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold 
this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman