DRN-4329047
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy with the interest rate she received from Flagstone Group LTD.
What happened
Miss F held money in a third-party deposit account via her Flagstone account. Miss F raised 
a complaint with Flagstone because she noticed that the third-party account that she was 
holding via Flagstone was paying a lower rate of interest than she would have received if 
shed opened the third-party account with the third-party directly.
Flagstone responded to Miss F and explained that the interest rate for the third-party 
account held with Flagstone is set by the third-party, and that Flagstone accounts arent 
guaranteed to have the same rate of interest offered by third parties directly. Miss F wasnt 
satisfied with Flagstones response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Flagstone had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, so they didnt uphold the complaint. Miss F 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
Flagstone can be said to operate as a deposit account aggregator. By this I mean that 
Flagstones own account is a holding account, into which account holders can deposit their 
own money and from which they can move their money to a number of various third-party 
accounts offered on the Flagstone platform. 
Miss F is unhappy because she noticed that, for a period of time, the interest rate that she 
was receiving on a third-party account she held with Flagstone was lower than the interest 
she would have received if shed opened an account with that third-party directly.
But it must be noted that when an account is held with a third-party via Flagstone, this isnt 
the same as holding the account directly with that third-party. Rather, Flagstone have 
arrangements with the third parties they work with, such that an account opened with a third-
party via Flagstone is separate and distinct to directly held third-party accounts.
Additionally, the interest rates for third-party accounts held with Flagstone are set by the 
third-party, and not by Flagstone. And the separate nature of Flagstone held accounts 
means that interest rate changes for Flagstone accounts are implemented by the third-party 
separate to any interest rate changes they might make on their own, directly held accounts. 
And this means that it can be the case, as it was here, that a third-party might choose to 
raise interest rates on its directly held accounts and not on its accounts held via Flagstone.
Notably, theres nothing in Flagstones terms which guarantees that interest rates on 
accounts held via Flagstone will always match interest rates being offered by third parties 
directly. And given the nature of how Flagship operate, as described above, neither would I 
reasonably expect such a guarantee to be provided.
So, while I can understand Miss Fs displeasure that she could, for a period of time, have 
earned a better rate of interest had she held an account with a third-party directly, it was 
never guaranteed by Flagstones terms that interest rates on third-party accounts accessed 
via their platform would match interest rates offered by third parties directly. 
Furthermore, it wasnt Flagstone who created the disparity in interest rates. Rather, it was 
the third-party themselves which did this when they increased the interest rate they offered 
on accounts they offered directly but didnt correspondingly increase the interest rate offered 
on Flagstone held accounts.
All of which means that I dont feel that Flagstone have done anything wrong or acted 
unfairly here as Miss F contends. Rather, I feel that Flagstone have administered Miss Fs 
account in line with their terms and conditions and that Miss F has an expectation about 
interest rates which isnt reasonable, given the terms of her Flagstone account.
I realise this might not be the outcome Miss F was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Flagstone to take any further action here. I hope that 
Miss F will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman