DRN-4047634
The complaint
Mr A complains about the advice Tavistock Partners (UK) Limited trading as Abacus 
Associates Financial Services (Tavistock) gave to him to transfer the benefits from his 
defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British Steel Pension Scheme 
(BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr As employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension 
schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The 
compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits 
for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. 
Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr As employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
On 16 October 2017, the BSPS provided Mr A with an updated summary of the transfer 
value of his scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £326,304.
The same month (October 2017) members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter 
which gave them the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to 
the BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
Mr A asked Tavistock for pension advice. It conducted a fact-find with him and assessment 
of his attitude to risk. Amongst other things it recorded that Mr A was 47 years old and lived 
with his partner, Ms P, who was aged 55. They were both working. Ms P had recently also 
started receiving pension income. Mr A had no children or other financial dependents. He 
had also started contributing towards his employers recently set up defined contribution 
(DC) pension scheme. Together with his employer they were contributing a sum equivalent 
to around 16% of his salary into that. He had a second small DC pension pot worth £7,067. 
He owned his own home which was worth £110,000 subject to an outstanding mortgage of 
£65,000. He had existing debts which he was paying by means of an Individual Voluntary 
Arrangement (IVA) which would be repaid in 2019. He also had a loan which he would repay 
in 2022.
After obtaining a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, on 21 November 2017 Tavistock 
sent Mr A its Occupational Defined Benefit Pension Transfer and Recommendation Report 
(Suitability Report), which set out its analysis. It recommended Mr A transfer his DB 
scheme benefits to a named personal pension. It noted that by transferring Mr A was unlikely 
to achieve the growth rates required to match the benefits from the BSPS2 or the PPF. It 
said that if his sole objective was to match the scheme income then a transfer would not be 
suitable. But it recommended the transfer because:
He could retire at his preferred retirement age of 58.
It would allow him to take control of his pension.
He could leave any residual pension to his partner or his family on his death.
He would meet his household costs in retirement of £15,000 a year from his state 
pension and other income sources; so he didnt need another monthly income.
Transferring would allow him to take his pension benefits in a flexible manner 
convenient for him.
Mr A accepted Tavistocks recommendation and transferred his DB scheme funds to the 
named personal pension.
Mr A complained to Tavistock in 2022 that the advice to transfer might not have been 
suitable for him. Tavistock didnt uphold his complaint. amongst other things it said 
transferring allowed him to achieve his objectives. Notably, he had lost faith in his employer, 
wanted flexible access to his funds, autonomy over his pension pot, and the provision of 
death benefits. Transferring met those objectives.
Mr A referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into it. He thought Tavistocks advice was unsuitable for Mr A. In brief the Investigator 
said Tavistocks assessment that Mr As household income needs in retirement of £15,000 a 
year was unrealistic. The Investigator didnt think Mr A would be better off by transferring. 
And his desire for flexibility and control was overstated. The Investigator also didnt think that 
different death benefits were worthy of a lower income in retirement for. So he 
recommended the complaint be upheld. 
To put things right the Investigator said Tavistock should establish if Mr P had suffered a 
financial loss as a result of its unsuitable advice and if so pay him compensation. He added 
that it should also pay Mr A £250 to address the distress and inconvenience he experienced 
as a result of learning he had received unsuitable advice to transfer.
Tavistock didnt agree with our Investigators complaint assessment. In brief it said it 
believed it had correctly assessed Mr As income needs in retirement, which Mr A could 
achieve from a transfer. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion. So as the matter wasnt resolved 
informally it's been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Tavistock's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Tavistock 
should have only considered recommending a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate it was 
in Mr As best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our investigator gave.
Reasons for my decision 
Tavistock obtained a TVAS report which showed the relevant critical yields to match the 
benefits from both the DB scheme at Mr As preferred retirement age of 58 and the schemes 
normal retirement age of 65. Having done so it noted the critical yields were unlikely to be 
achieved by transferring. It said that if Mr As sole objective was to match the scheme 
benefits, its advice would be not to transfer and to remain within the scheme. I agree with 
Tavistock's analysis here. So I don't intend to do an in-depth analysis of a comparison 
between the DB scheme benefits and those from the named personal pension. Save to say 
that I think by transferring Mr A was, most likely, potentially making himself poorer in 
retirement.
Tavistock said Mr A and Ms P together required a net income in retirement of £15,000. It 
arrived at that figure by running through their regular outgoings which it said were £1,940 a 
month. That figure included discretionary and leisure costs of £85 a month. Tavistock noted 
that by the time Mr A was 58 he would have repaid his loan and IVA debt, which would 
reduce his outgoings by around £548 a month. And, after he finished his mortgage, when he 
turned 62  in 2032, his outgoings would reduce by a further £476 a month. And factoring 
those things in it said Mr A and Ms P agreed they would only need a joint income of £15,000 
a year in retirement. Ms P was already receiving a pension of £12,000 a year, which would 
reduce to £7,000 a year once her state pension became payable at age 67. And they could 
meet their income needs from other sources, including Mr As transferred pension, in 
retirement.
I agree with Tavistock that the figures as presented do show that Mr A and Ms P should 
have been able to afford their regular outgoings with an income of £15,000 in retirement. But 
I think Tavistock could have done more to check the accuracy of Mr As expenditure figures. Mr A and Ms P kept their incomes separate. Mr A paid all the household bills. Ms P paid for 
holidays and other lifestyle expenses. 
Mr A had a net income of around £474 higher each month than all of his outgoings (including 
his mortgage, loan/debt repayments and discretionary expenses). So, according to those 
figures, he had a disposable income of around £5,688 a year. But he had no savings and 
only £350 in the bank. So Mr As spending was clearly a lot more than Tavistock recorded. 
Similarly, prior to beginning to receive her pension income some months before Tavistock 
gave its advice Ms P had acquired credit card debts of over £20,000. She was soon to pay 
those off using the tax free cash (TFC) lump sum from her pension. But that debt indicates 
that together Mr As and Ms Ps income only just met, or fell behind, their actual outgoings. 
So it seems likely that their actual regular outgoings were underestimated. And that could 
mean their income needs in retirement would be significantly higher than they expected, 
even after Mr A settled all his loans and debts. I think Tavistock should have identified this 
anomaly and challenged Mr A as to what his likely retirement income needs would be.
I accept that its common for people to reduce their spending in retirement. However, prior to 
Ms P receiving her pension, the couple had a net income of around £48,000 a year. And 
given the absence of savings, it appears they were spending all of that income. Paying off 
Mr As debts would reduce his outgoings by £12,288 a year. But they would still have to find 
a further reduction in spending of around £20,700 in order to bring their outgoings down to 
£15,000 a year. That would seem a tall order.
However, even if Mr A and Ms P could get by on only £15,000 a year I don't think that meant 
a transfer was in Mr As best interests. Tavistock acknowledged in its suitability report that 
Mr A could retire early and meet his income needs while remaining in the BSPS2 or the 
PPF. So he had no need to transfer in order to be able to take early retirement. But by 
transferring he was exposing his pension fund to the volatilities of the investment markets. 
So he was putting his otherwise safeguarded DB scheme pension income at unnecessary 
risk. I dont think that was in his best interests. 
Also, as I've said above, Tavistock acknowledged that the critical yields were unlikely to be 
achieved. In those circumstances it said Mr A would receive a lower income in retirement. 
In other words he was, most likely, making himself poorer by transferring. For that reason 
alone I don't think a transfer was in Mr As best interests. So Ive gone on to think about the 
other reasons Tavistock said supported a recommendation to transfer.
Tavistock said that meeting the critical yield wasn't important to Mr A as he was looking to 
access his benefits flexibly, which he couldnt achieve from the BSPS2 or the PPF. Its true 
to say that Mr A couldnt have had the same level of flexible access to his DB funds as he 
could from a personal pension. While he could have chosen to take those early, if hed 
wanted to take TFC, then he would have had to take that at the same time as drawing a 
regular income from his pension. Whereas the personal pension would allow him to draw 
down funds as he saw fit.
But while I can see why that might have been an attractive prospect for him, Im not 
persuaded Mr A had any concrete need to vary his income throughout retirement. But, if he 
believed he did there was no requirement for him to give up the safeguarded benefits from 
the DB scheme in order to have some flexible access to retirement funds.
Tavistock noted that Mr A and his employer had begun contributing to a recently set up DC 
pension scheme. Mr A and his employer were together contributing a sum equivalent to 16% 
of Mr As salary to that pension. He could have anticipated continuing to contribute to that pension (or a similar one if he were to change jobs in the future) for the remainder of his 
working life. And Tavistock noted in its suitability report that by the time Mr A reached 65 his 
DC pension could be worth £137,000 if it had a growth rate of 1% a year or £224,000 if the 
pension managed a growth rate of 3.9% a year. So, potentially, Mr A could look forward to a 
significant sum in his DC pension pot in the future.
The nature of a DC pension means this already provided Mr A with flexibility  he wasnt 
committed to take its benefits in a set way. Mr A could have taken lump sums as and when 
required and adjusted the income he took from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr A 
retained his DB pension, this combined with his new DC pension, would have likely given 
him flexible access to pension funds if that was what he needed.
Also, if Tavistock had advised Mr A to join the BSPS2 and he had later decided he needed 
greater flexibility than the scheme provided, then he could have chosen to transfer from that 
scheme nearer to his retirement age. And I think this was something that he could have 
explored closer to his intended retirement age; it wasnt a decision he needed to make 
straightaway. 
In addition Tavistock essentially said that Mr A didn't need the regular income from his DB 
scheme as, by the time his state pension became payable, he would have sufficient income 
from other sources and his DB pension wouldn't be needed. That might have been so, but I 
think its rarely the case that people complain of having too much money. And by remaining 
in the DB scheme Mr A would have had a higher safeguarded income which he could use to 
spend and improve his lifestyle, use as an emergency fund or to save and leave as a legacy 
if he chose. So I don't think having an extra guaranteed income would have provided too 
much of a burden for him. 
Tavistock also recommended the transfer because it would allow Mr A to leave any residual 
pension to his beneficiaries on his death. Mr A wasnt married to Ms P and he had no 
financial dependents. So, unless Mr A married in later life, which couldnt be discounted, the 
spouses benefit from the DB scheme was unlikely to be of value to him and his pension 
would die with him. In contrast he could leave any sums remaining in his personal pension 
on his death to Ms P or his wider family. But I dont think the possibility of more attractive 
death benefits was a sufficient reason to recommend a transfer. 
Tavistocks priority was to advise Mr A about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to 
beneficiaries after death. But in transferring out of his DB scheme Mr A was essentially 
giving up a guaranteed, index linked, increasing income in retirement, for the potential for a 
lump sum for his beneficiaries that they may not receive for many years to come. 
I don't doubt that the CETV figure would have appeared an attractive sum to be able to leave 
as a legacy. But, in reality, the amount remaining on death following a transfer was always 
likely to be different. As well as being dependent on investment performance the fund would 
be depleted by Mr As withdrawals from it in his lifetime. So, how much would remain in it on 
his death depended on a number of factors. And there may not have been much left in his 
personal pension if he lived a long life, the investments performed poorly, or if he took large 
sums from it early in his retirement. 
It follows that I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr A. And ultimately Tavistock should not have 
encouraged Mr A to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.I understand Mr A approached Tavistock because he was concerned about the stability of 
the BSPS and the actions of his employer. Tavistock said transferring would allow Mr A to 
take control of his pension. I can certainly understand Mr As concerns about the safety of 
his pension. His employer had been consulting about the future of the scheme and there 
was still a possibility, albeit a slim one, that the BSPS2 wouldn't go ahead. I'm also aware 
that many scheme members were concerned that, in time, the BSPS2 itself might also move 
to the PPF. And that had likely motivated Mr A to seek advice. 
But Tavistocks role was to objectively address any concerns Mr A might have had. Its job 
wasnt to simply transact what he might have thought he wanted to happen. And the PPF 
would have still given Mr A a guaranteed income worth roughly 90% of his BSPS 
entitlement. He would be unlikely to improve on these benefits by transferring. He could also 
have still taken early retirement from the PPF and, as the table below shows, the benefits 
from it at age 58 could be more generous than they were from the BSPS2 at the outset if he 
chose to take TFC:
Age 58 BSPS2 PPF
Full pension £13,087 £12,617
TFC and £63,840 £70,178
Reduced pension £ 9,576 £10,532
So, entering the PPF was probably not as concerning as Mr A might have thought, and I 
dont think any fears he held about this meant transferring was in his best interest. 
Further, while Tavistock said transferring gave Mr A autonomy to control his pension, I think 
it has overstated his desire for this. He wasnt an experienced investor. And I can't see he 
had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. 
Tavistocks recommendation seems to have been given on the basis it would continue to 
provide Mr A with ongoing financial advice about his investments. In other words he would 
be handing over the management of those investments to Tavistock and paying it to do so. It 
follows that I don't think that controlling his pension investments was a genuine objective for 
Mr A  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr As best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr A wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB 
scheme. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think Tavistocks advice to Mr A was 
unsuitable for him.
Also, as I'm aware that learning he might have compromised his security in retirement has 
been a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr A, I think Tavistock should pay him £250 
to address that.
 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Tavistock to put Mr A, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr A would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if 
Tavistock had given suitable advice. 
Tavistock must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Tavistock should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr A and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what 
Tavistock based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr A has not yet retired and as far as Im aware has no plans to do so at present. 
So, compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr A 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Tavistock should:
calculate and offer Mr A redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr A before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr A receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr A accepts Tavistocks offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr A for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr As end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr A as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Tavistock may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments 
to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr As likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Also, as I think that learning that he might have unnecessarily put his pension funds at risk 
was a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr A, I think Tavistock should also pay him 
£250 to address that.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Tavistock Partners 
(UK) Limited trading as Abacus Associates Financial Services to pay Mr A the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Tavistock Partners (UK) Limited trading as Abacus Associates Financial Services pays Mr A 
the balance.
If Mr A accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Tavistock Partners (UK) 
Limited trading as Abacus Associates Financial Services.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr A can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr A may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman