DRN-3678110
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt paid a claim for a 
cancelled holiday under their travel insurance policy. All references to Great Lakes include 
the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D bought an annual travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes, in January 
2020. Mr and Mrs D were due to travel abroad in early February 2020. Unfortunately, as Mrs 
Ds mother was very ill, they cancelled their holiday. Mrs Ds mother sadly died during the 
time Mr and Mrs D were due to be away, as did Mr Ds father. 
Mr and Mrs D made a claim with Great Lakes. Great Lakes said the claim wasnt covered as 
Mrs Ds mother had fallen ill before Mr and Mrs D bought their policy. Mr and Mrs D said 
theyd contacted Great Lakes, who told them theyd be covered if they cancelled. Otherwise, 
Mr and Mrs D said theyd have gone ahead and travelled as they couldnt afford to lose the 
cost of their holiday. Great Lakes said it listened to the call which Mr and Mrs D were 
referring to and they were not told their claim would be covered but were told to submit it for 
consideration. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs D brought the matter to the attention of our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with our investigators 
findings and asked whether he had listened to the conversation between Mr D and Great 
Lakes. The complaint has now been referred to me as the final stage in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator say insurers must handle claims fairly, provide 
reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and shouldnt unreasonably reject 
a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when making my decision. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs D paid a higher premium than theyd usually have paid for their 
insurance, but this doesnt mean that every situation is covered under their policy. Mr and 
Mrs Ds travel insurance policy  in common with most, if not all, travel insurance policies on 
the market  doesnt cover claims caused by the illness of a non-travelling relative which the 
policyholder was aware of at the time of purchasing the insurance. 
I accept Mr and Mrs Ds point that Mrs Ds mother wasnt given a death sentence when she 
first became ill in November 2019. But insurance is designed to cover unforeseen and 
unexpected events which the policyholder is unaware of when buying the policy. At the time 
Mr and Mrs D bought this policy, Mrs Ds mother was unfortunately already ill and she had 
been transferred to a community hospital for comfort care only. This means that Mr and Mrs 
Ds situation isnt covered under the terms and conditions of their policy. Im not aware of 
any travel insurance policy which would provide cover for the cancellation of a holiday in 
these circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs D say theyd have gone ahead and travelled were it not for the advice they were 
given by Great Lakes on the phone. Great Lakes hasnt been able to provide me with a copy 
of the call recording in question. It says it no longer keeps records after certain time periods 
have elapsed, and the calls no longer exist. I know that Mr and Mrs D will be disappointed by 
this, as theyve said from the outset that they wouldnt have cancelled the holiday were it not 
for the information which they say that Great Lakes provided in the call. But I have no reason 
to doubt what Great Lakes has said, and I cant punish Great Lakes for its failure to retain 
the call or draw any inferences from its inability to now provide the call to us. 
When Mr and Mrs D first made their complaint, Great Lakes said it listened to the call and Mr 
D was never told the claim would be covered but was told to submit a claim for 
consideration. Mr D says Great Lakes advisor told him he thought he was covered, so he 
should cancel the holiday as soon as possible. As I cant be certain exactly what was said, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities, so, what I think is more likely than not 
to have happened.
I wouldnt generally expect an insurer to give definitive advice about whether a claim will be 
accepted when its contacted with an initial query. All claims are subject to the detailed terms 
and conditions set out in the policy documentation, and an insurer is entitled to ask for 
reasonable evidence and carry out reasonable investigations into a claim before confirming 
cover. In my experience of dealing with complaints of this type, most advice given by a travel 
insurer in response to an initial query of the kind Mr D made will be generic and a 
policyholder will usually be advised to submit a claim form, with supporting documentation, 
for consideration before a claim is accepted. So, I think its unlikely that Mr D would have 
been given any firm assurances by Great Lakes that his claim would be covered. 
Im very sorry to hear about the sad circumstances surrounding this complaint, but I dont 
think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask Great Lakes to accept 
Mr and Mrs Ds claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman