DRN-3551522
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a number of packaged 
bank accounts. His account history is as follows.
Account opened some time prior to September 2001 earliest records show that it was 
a fee-free account
Upgraded to a fee-paying Select account in December 2001
Upgraded to a fee-paying Platinum account in August 2005
Upgraded to a fee-paying Premier account in October 2007
Downgraded to a fee-paying Platinum account in February 2008 
Upgraded to a fee-paying Premier account in August 2008
Downgraded to a fee-free Classic Account in June 2020
Amongst other things, he says that the accounts were not suitable for him and he thought 
that he had to have these accounts in order to have an overdraft facility.
What happened
Lloyds said that we could not look at the sale of the Premier account taken out in August 
2008, as they believed the complaint was brought too late. A decision was issued by an 
ombudsman on this and they agreed that we could not look at this sale.
One of our adjudicators then assessed the sale of the remaining accounts and they didnt 
think that Lloyds had mis-sold them. Mr B disagreed with this and therefore his complaint 
was referred to me for a final decision. 
This decision will only address whether his accounts (apart from the Premier account taken 
out in August 2008) were mis-sold. I note that Mr B is also unhappy with the way he was 
treated in relation to his overdraft and financial difficulties that he says he has suffered. As 
we have explained, if he remains concerned with this, he would need to direct these 
concerns to Lloyds to investigate in the first instance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Mr Bs complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened - based on the evidence that 
I have been provided with. With this in mind, and having considered everything that Mr B 
and Lloyds have said and provided, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Firstly, I have considered whether Mr B was given a fair choice in taking out these accounts. 
Mr B had held a fee-free account with an overdraft prior to the first upgrade. So I think that 
he wouldve been aware that fee-free accounts were generally available with overdrafts. 
Mr B says that he had not held a fee-free or interest-free overdraft prior to taking out these 
accounts. But this was not something that was available on the fee-free accounts that Lloyds 
offered. So if he thought he needed to take out a packaged bank account in order to get fee-
free or interest-free portions of his overdraft, then that was correct. 
So overall, on balance, I think that Mr B agreed to these accounts knowing he did not have 
to and after being given a fair choice. I also note that the sale of the Premier account in 
October 2007 was taken out online without the presence of a Lloyds member of staff. This 
suggests he saw some benefit of these accounts and actively chose to upgrade his account, 
knowing that there was no obligation to do so.
Apart from the Premier account taken out in October 2007, these accounts were 
recommended to Mr B. Given this, Lloyds had to ensure that they were broadly a reasonable 
fit for his circumstances at the time.
At the time the Select account was taken out it cost £4 a month and came with a £50 interest 
free overdraft facility and breakdown cover. I can see that Mr B went on to use the 
breakdown cover and was using his overdraft facility so I cant say that Lloyds did anything 
wrong by recommending this account to Mr B.
At the time the Platinum account was taken out, it cost £15 per month, whereas by this point 
the Select account cost £7. 
The Platinum account included comprehensive breakdown cover and worldwide family travel 
insurance, mobile phone insurance, a fee-free and interest-free £250 overdraft buffer. This 
was in addition to a preferential interest rate applied to overdrawn balances above £250, 
which was around 7% less than what was charged to use an overdraft on the Select 
account. 
Mr B has explained that he did not need the travel insurance, the breakdown cover or the 
mobile phone insurance. But whilst I accept that he may not have needed the travel 
insurance, he did go on to use the mobile phone insurance and breakdown cover. Also given 
Mr Bs regular overdraft use at the time, and based on the interest he was being charged 
prior to the upgrade,  Mr B wouldve saved a similar amount in overdraft interest compared 
to the additional monthly cost of having the Platinum account (compared to the Select 
account).So essentially for little to no extra cost, Mr B was able to receive more 
comprehensive breakdown cover by upgrading from the Select to the Platinum account. So 
again I dont think that this account recommendation was unreasonable in the 
circumstances.In relation to the Premier account taken out in October 2007, I can see that it was taken out 
online by Mr B. So I dont think that Lloyds recommended this account to Mr B. This means 
that it was not up to Lloyds to ensure the account was right for Mr B. It did though need to 
give Mr B enough information to decide whether the account was suitable. And I am 
satisfied, albeit on balance, that he wouldve been told what the major benefits were to make 
the account seem attractive to him. Afterall, I dont see why Mr B wouldve upgraded from 
one packaged account to an even more expensive account, unless he was aware of and 
attracted to the additional benefits that it came with. 
In relation to the final Platinum account sale in February 2008 at the time it was taken out it 
cost £15 as opposed to the £25 that Mr B was being charged for the Premier account. So 
this essentially represented a downgrade to a cheaper account.
The main differences at the time were that the Platinum account did not come with Home 
Emergency cover; it had a smaller fee-free overdraft buffer; and a slightly higher interest rate 
for an overdraft facility above the buffer amount, compared to what the Premier account 
offered. It did still include comprehensive breakdown cover and worldwide family travel 
insurance, mobile phone insurance, a fee-free and interest-free £250 overdraft buffer with 
preferential interest rates above this amount. 
Looking at the overdraft interest that Mr B was being charged before and after this account 
change, I think the reduction in the account cost (£10) was more than the potential additional 
interest charged on the overdraft. So downgrading the account potentially saved him money 
on a monthly basis. I also can see that Mr B, whilst holding the previous Platinum account, 
had made use of the enhanced breakdown cover that it came with. So overall I think that 
Lloyds recommending this account over the other accounts it provided at this point was 
broadly not unreasonable.
I accept that Mr B may not have been told everything during the sales, about all of the 
benefits that all the accounts came with. But I have not seen anything specific about Mr Bs 
circumstances from either sale, that makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing 
to them, had he been given even more information about the benefits that the accounts 
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, and perhaps with what Mr B mayve read 
recently about financial products being mis-sold, he may now believe that his accounts were 
mis-sold. But based on what Mr B has said, alongside all of the available evidence that I 
have seen, I cant say that its more likely than not that his accounts were mis-sold in the first 
instance. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman