DRN-2866817
The complaint
Mrs G complains that the car she obtained from Clydesdale Financial Services Limited 
trading as Barclays Partner Finance (Barclays) was not of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
Mrs G acquired a used car in November 2017 through Barclays. It was a Ford C-Max and 
was around 3 years old and had around 25,000 miles on the clock. In October 2020, Mrs G 
complained because the timing chain/belt had failed on the car. Barclays investigated the 
complaint and responded in November 2020 to say they didnt uphold the complaint. They 
said that as it had been almost 3 years since they supplied the car, they felt the car was fit 
for purpose at the point of sale. 
Mrs G had also complained that she had been told the engine was too small for this size of 
car, which might have had an impact and caused the issues. Barclays rejected this and said 
that she had agreed the specification of the vehicle prior to acquiring it. 
Barclays said that if Mrs G wanted this investigating further, she would need to provide 
evidence to confirm the current faults were present or developing at the point of sale, and 
that would need to include an independent inspection carried out by a VAT registered 
garage. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs G bought her complaint to our service in February 2021. Mrs G had 
provided a screen shot of an email from an independent garage, saying they had looked at 
the car in February 2021. This confirmed the car had now travelled 53,000 miles and said 
that the timing belt had failed. They felt this was premature for a car of this age and mileage, 
and that this shouldnt have occurred with normal daily use. It went on to say that they felt 
this was a design fault. The car in their opinion was too large for the 1 litre engine, and it was 
an issue to be taken up with Ford UK as they felt it was inevitable that the engine would fail 
when having to drive such a large car. 
An investigator here investigated the case in June 2021 and did not uphold the complaint. 
They felt that there was no evidence that the issue had been present or developing at point 
of sale, and as such, they couldnt uphold the complaint.  They said that it had been made 
clear to Mrs G that the engine size was 1 litre prior to her acquiring the car and did not feel it 
was reasonable to hold Barclays responsible for the design of the car.  
Mrs G didnt agree with this view, so asked for an Ombudsman to review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have exchanged many emails with Mrs G about her case in the last few months. I felt that 
there might be more evidence or better evidence here that would be relevant to her case and 
wanted to get a better understanding of the timeline as to what happened. 
Firstly, let me deal with the concerns that the car has a design fault regarding the engine 
size. Ive found no evidence of any widespread concerns with this when investigating, and 
there has been no manufacturer recall about this issue. Smaller engines producing more 
power has been a trend in the industry for several years now, and despite this model being 8 
years old, I havent found any persuasive evidence that the engine size causes issues in this 
model of car. 
Mrs G hasnt provided any evidence other than the testimony of two mechanics who looked 
at the faults with the car, and I have searched the internet for details of any similar issues 
other people have had with this model, and found nothing relating to the problems Mrs G has 
experienced. If there were problems like this, Id expect by now to have found details and 
probably to have seen a recall by the manufacturer, but there doesnt appear to be either. As 
such, I cant say there is a wider issue with this car and engine size which the finance 
company should be liable for. 
I think that this comment by the mechanic has in some ways deflected from the most 
important part of this case. In reality, we need to decide whether this particular car was of 
satisfactory quality, taking into account the Consumer Rights Act. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says the quality of goods are satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
It also says the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other 
things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods.
I feel that a key aspect here would be the durability of the car. The complaint says that the 
timing belt has failed in the car, so Ive gone on to investigate whether this is something that 
could be expected, what evidence we have of the cause, and what might have had an 
impact on the durability of it. 
When I contacted Mrs G, she was unaware the case was still open at our service. This was 
unfortunate, as it meant she had got the car repaired and disposed of it. I apologised for any 
confusion here, but Ive checked our communication and confirmed that Mrs G did ask for an 
Ombudsman to review her case, and we confirmed the case would be queued for an 
Ombudsman to review. 
The first thing I wanted to do was to check the service history of the car. This vehicle would 
be expected to be serviced every 12 months or 10,000 miles, which came first. The timing 
belt of the car would usually be expected to last longer than it did, but this could be partly 
dependent on how the car was used, and on it being maintained properly, including being 
serviced correctly at the relevant intervals.  Mrs G was unable to provide any details of the 
service history from prior to her owning the vehicle, as she had disposed of the car now so 
didnt have any service book or records. I asked her for evidence of service history during 
the 3 years she owned the car. 
She went back to the garage she had used and was able to provide me with some details. 
She said it had been serviced in November 2018 and November 2019 alongside the MOTs 
carried out. 
The garage was unable to reprint an invoice for 2018 for her, but provided a screen shot 
from their internal systems. They provided a copy of a 2019 invoice. 
Its not clear from the 2018 evidence whether a service was carried out; there are costs listed but it isnt clear what they are other than an MOT charge. However, I can see the MOT 
history of the car online, and this seems to suggest the car passed the MOT on the 22 
November 2018 with no work required. This is the date on the screen print, so I think its 
possible that a service was carried out at this point, as this would explain the charges 
showing on the screen printout. The mileage was noted as 37,545, so it had travelled around 
12,500 miles since she had acquired the car, and was slightly late for its service at 10,000 
miles. 
However, in 2019, the invoice provided doesnt include a service. It includes an MOT test, a 
replacement bulb which matches with the fail on the MOT test I can see online, and possibly 
an oil change. But there hasnt been a service noted on the invoice, and there arent any 
further charges on the invoice which might indicate a service being carried out. The mileage 
was 50,142 at this point. 
So, I have no service history from prior to Mrs G owning the car and it seems to have had at 
most one service in almost 3 years before she raised her complaint. 
I also tried to clarify the timeline with Mrs G. The first mention in the business notes of the 
problems comes in October 2020, when she raised her complaint. The view issued by the 
investigator here quoted October 2020 as the date the timing belt had failed. However, Mrs 
G told me that it was in the summer of 2020 that the problem had occurred. She said it had 
taken some time due to availability of mechanics and Covid restrictions for her to have the 
car checked out and diagnosed.
I looked at the contact notes from the business, and these included some contact in October 
2020 and prior to this. The notes from October 2020 say that Mrs G had told the business 
that engine had failed, and shed been told by mechanics that the wrong engine is in the car, 
that the 1 litre engine was too small for the car. It says Mrs G told the business that shed 
spoken to 3 mechanics and that the car dealer had said it wasnt their issue. 
Prior to this, there are notes from August 2020 where Mrs G had called them to discuss a 
voluntary termination of the agreement. The notes say there was £400 left owing to reach 
the 50% and be able to carry out the voluntary termination, and that Mrs G had told them 
she couldnt afford to keep the car so they transferred her to their internal collections team to 
discuss options. 
The notes of that conversation say that they explained that the £400 wouldnt be due until 
the car was collected, and they could set up a payment plan for her to pay off that £400. The 
notes confirm that paperwork for the voluntary termination was sent out to her. 
I discussed this by email with Mrs G. She says she had told them at this point about 
problems with the car and they said it would need to be in working order, but there is no 
mention of this in the contact notes. She says she was aware they would inspect the car on 
its return and that if the engine wasnt working, she would still be liable for this. She also said 
that she hadnt told them she couldnt pay, so wasnt sure why it said this.  
I asked Mrs G for any evidence about the conversations with other mechanics prior to her 
raising the complaint, but unfortunately due to the passing of time, she didnt have any of the 
details anymore. She felt shed sent them in to us previously, but I have checked the case 
file and we have only received the screenshot of the email she received in February 2021, 
nothing from before she complained to the business. 
I also asked for details of the work she had done in 2021 before she disposed of the car. 
She sent me a copy of a letter from a mechanic, but not on headed paper. I have looked for 
the garage on the internet to verify the details but cant find any details. I asked if she had an invoice with more detail, but she didnt have this to send to me. 
The letter says again that the engine is too small for the car and this was the problem, and 
details that they charged her £2,750 for the parts and labour to strip and rebuild the engine. 
Overall, what I am left with as evidence is not a clear picture. At some point in or after July 
2020, Mrs G has had a significant problem with the car, almost certainly a timing belt failure 
which has damaged the engine. But there isnt any evidence from any garage or mechanic 
who inspected the car at this point. Mrs G complained to the business in October 2020, and 
in their final response they said they felt the car was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied, but would re-consider this if Mrs G provided a report from a VAT registered garage 
which contradicted their assessment. 
In February 2021, when bringing the complaint to us, Mrs G has provided us with a 
screenshot of an email from a garage, saying that the timing belt had failed because the 
engine is too small for this car. There is no letter on headed paper to confirm if they are VAT 
registered. It also doesnt give any details of the fault and the damage caused but focuses 
on saying that the engine is too small for the car. There is no indication as to whether they 
felt the fault was present or developing at point of sale or anything else that may have 
caused it. 
In the letter from the mechanic who fixed the car in July 2021, there is similarly no detail as 
to what damage the fault had caused, but instead a list of the parts stripped and replaced. 
The only suggestion around the cause is that the engine was too small for the car.
I empathise with Mrs G for the problems she had with the car. But as I explained to her, once 
she had owned the car for over 6 months, the relevant legislation puts the onus on her to 
demonstrate the faults were present or developing when the car was supplied or prove the 
car wasnt durable. Ive asked her for evidence to support her complaint, but due to the 
passage of time, she doesnt have any more details. 
The evidence Ive been provided doesnt confirm the details of the faults or provide any view 
on why they have occurred, other than to say that the engine was too small for the car. Im 
not persuaded that this is the case from my wider investigations into this model of car, as I 
have explained earlier. 
Alongside this, I dont have evidence that the car has been maintained/serviced at the 
required intervals. This could have led to some of the parts in question wearing more quickly 
or becoming damaged, so I cant say that the car wasnt durable when supplied.
Im sorry that this isnt the answer Mrs G was hoping for, but I wont be upholding her 
complaint, and I dont require the business to do anything more here. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman