DRN-2860558
The complaint
Mr J complains Santander UK Plc unfairly closed his account and it holds a large sum of 
money belonging to his friend. He wants Santander to return the money to him or his friend.
What happened
Mr J held a basic bank account and savings account with Santander. In 2020 he received a 
large sum of money paid into his basic account from a person he says is a friend. He told our 
service his friend made a mistake transferring the funds.
Santander reviewed the payment and the activity on Mr Js basic account.  It froze his 
access to the account and asked for information about the source of the payment. Mr J sent 
Santander some information which it wasnt satisfied by. Santander completed its review and 
gave Mr J notice his account would close. It allowed him to withdraw his funds but withheld 
the payment funds.
Mr J complained to Santander, who rejected his complaint. It said it could hold on to the 
remaining funds, and it had closed his accounts in line with the accounts terms. Mr J 
brought his complaint to our service. An investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. In 
summary they found:
Mr J held a basic bank account, so certain rules applied for the account to be closed.  
Based on all the information available, Santander reasonably closed the account and 
gave enough notice to Mr J. Santander had no obligation to provide the reasons 
behind its decision.
Santander has important legal and regulatory obligations to follow. And it may review 
activity on accounts and prevent anything happening on an account while it does so. 
Santanders decision to stop him accessing most of the funds in the account was 
reasonable. And it completed its review within a reasonable time and allowed Mr J to 
withdraw his funds
Santanders decision to retain most of the funds was reasonable. It had legitimate 
grounds for its decision, which complied with its legal and regulatory obligations. The 
remaining funds didnt represent a loss to Mr J. Instead they were his friends alleged 
loss, and it was for them to pursue this matter against their former account provider.
Mr J and his friend responded to the view. They said Santander stole the funds without 
giving any proper reason. They asked where the funds are now and what will happen to 
them. Mr J asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so the complaint was passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why:
Mr Js friend represents Mr J in bringing this complaint, but they are also complaining 
about Santander, as this is the firm holding their funds. But I cannot consider a 
complaint brought by Mr Js friend. They are not eligible to bring a complaint to our 
service against Santander under the rules we must follow. 
The rules are called the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP), and they form part of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys regulatory handbook. The rules are not discretionary, 
so if someone brings a complaint who isnt eligible under DISP, our service does not 
have the power to consider their complaint.
Mr Js friend does not have a qualifying relationship with Santander under DISP, 
which means we cannot consider their complaint  it falls outside of our jurisdiction. 
This doesnt mean they dont have a claim they could bring elsewhere, such as a 
court of law; but whether they do would be a matter for the court to decide.
So, I have only considered the complaint brought by Mr J and the losses he claims to 
have suffered. He is Santanders customer, and he is the person whose account was 
closed.
Santander had to meet certain requirements to close Mr Js basic account. A 
decision to close a basic account should not be taken likely, especially if this was    
Mr Js only current account. But after carefully considering Santanders reasons and 
the information it considered, I find its decision was reasonable. Mr J would like to be 
told Santanders reasons, but Santander is not obliged to reveal them. So, I wont be 
revealing them either.
Santander has important legal and regulatory responsibilities, which arent just 
towards Mr J or to his friend. To meet its responsibilities Santander must monitor 
accounts, particularly for unusual activity. And given the large payment made to Mr J, 
I understand Santanders concern. The payment was unusual in view of his previous 
account activity and the information Santander holds.
Im satisfied Santander acted reasonably by stopping Mr J accessing the payment 
funds. Mr J and his friend provided some information to establish where the money 
came from. But considering all the other information I have, I understand why 
Santander remains dissatisfied that releasing the funds would not potentially breach 
its obligations, especially considering the serious consequences it would face if it was 
later found to have breached them.
Mr J and his friend have asked a variety of questions which they want answered. But 
Santander do not need to provide anymore answers than they currently have. And 
where I find Santander acted reasonably by not giving revealing any more 
information than it has, it is not my role to provide answers to Mr J or his friend 
instead. 
For the reasons I have given, I am not directing Santander to release the funds it holds to Mr 
J or his friend.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman