DRN-1705830
The complaint
Mr P is complaining about the repairs carried out under his home emergency insurance 
provided by British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas). 
What happened
Mr P has had a home emergency insurance policy with British Gas for many years. In early 
May 2018, British Gas diagnosed a leak in the hot water pipe under the concrete floor in the 
kitchen. They repaired the leak shortly afterwards.
Mr P says he had to have extensive repairs to his home as a result of the leak. Although his 
buildings insurance covered this, his buildings insurance claim resulted in a significant 
increase to his premium. In addition, he says his health and that of his family has suffered 
from the damp conditions and continual noise from dehumidifiers as it took a long time to dry 
the floor. He said that hed reported the issue with the hot water in February 2018 and the 
restoration work was completed in May 2019  so theyd suffered for 15 months.
Mr P says that British Gas should have diagnosed the leak on their first visit. He says this 
was on 14 February 2018. And he says that if the leak had been diagnosed and repaired at 
that point he would have avoided all the distress and ill health as it would have prevented the 
damage to the floor. Instead, he says it took British Gas three months to resolve the leak.
In British Gass final response to Mr P they detailed the call-out history to Mr Ps home. They 
said that the 14 February visit was to resolve an issue with the toilet cistern. They said when 
they returned in early April to look at the hot water, it seemed that the issues were being 
caused by mechanical problems with parts  so they resolved these. They said there was no 
indication of a leak under the floor until 30 April. And they said that they progressed things 
as quickly as possible once their engineer raised the possibility of a leak under the floor.
They said their terms and conditions didnt cover Mr P for consequential damage from water 
leaks unless the leak had been caused by British Gas. And they said theyd taken 
appropriate actions within a reasonable timeframe.
Mr P wasnt happy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold 
his complaint  he said he thought British Gas had acted fairly and resolved the issues with 
Mr Ps plumbing within a reasonable timeframe. Mr P remained unhappy so his complaints 
come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate Mr P and his family have suffered as a result of the leak under their 
kitchen floor, Im satisfied that it isnt British Gass fault  so Im not upholding his complaint. 
Ill explain why.
In order to uphold Mr Ps complaint, Id have to be satisfied that British Gass work was 
inadequate. 
Ive looked at the notes from the engineers visits to Mr Ps home between February 2018 
and May 2018. Its clear that the visits in February were only in relation to the toilet and there 
was no mention of any issues with the hot water. 
The next visit was on 27 March. The notes in relation to this visit say that the engineer 
checked the hot water temperature and the valves and couldnt find any faults. This visit was 
closely followed by visits on 6 April and 9 April. During these visits, the notes say that the 
engineers identified an issue with some of the valves and arranged for these to be replaced. 
The notes say the valves were changed on 20 April but problems continued with the valves 
which led to two further visits on 23 April and 27 April to try to resolve these problems.
I can see from the notes that the first mention of a possible leak was on 30 April. I can also 
see that leak detection took place on 4 May, but that Mr P didnt want British Gas to dig up 
the floor in order to fix the leak on that day. The notes suggest that the hot water was then 
turned off until the leak was fixed on 17 May.
I appreciate that Mr P believes he first reported the hot water issues in February, but Ive 
seen no evidence to support this. Im satisfied with the notes Ive seen  and these suggest 
that the hot water issues were first reported at the end of March. I can appreciate Mr Ps 
frustration that it then took a month to diagnose the leak under the floor. But I can see that 
British Gass engineers visited several times and addressed several visible issues with the 
hot water system. Mr P says that British Gas should have tested the entire system on their 
first visit. But, given that they were able to identify problems with the valves visually, I dont 
agree. Its not unreasonable for them to have assumed the visible issues were causing the 
problems. 
British Gass notes from 30 April say that the hot water tank was draining without use and 
there were no visible leaks. It was only at this stage that it was clear to British Gas there was 
also an invisible issue. That doesnt seem unreasonable to me. Im satisfied the engineers 
made reasonable efforts to diagnose the faults. I also cant be sure when the leak in the 
pipework developed  as British Gas clearly identified some other problems with the hot 
water system. Its possible that the leak could have been ongoing for quite some period of 
time, even before Mr P first contacted British Gas.
I can see that once the fault was diagnosed, there were some concerns about access to the 
pipework  but these were resolved and the pipework was fixed within two weeks. Looking at 
the notes I cant see that British Gas caused any unreasonable delays during this time. 
I know that Mr P doesnt think British Gas treated him fairly. And I appreciate that the water 
damage and consequent suffering to Mr P and his family might have been less if British Gas 
had identified the leak in the pipework earlier. But Mr P may still have had problems if the 
leak had been going on for some time. And I can see British Gas visited on at least ten 
separate occasions between 27 March (when the hot water issue was first noted) and 
17 May (when it was resolved) and Im satisfied that they made every reasonable effort to 
identify and resolve the issues with Mr Ps hot water.
In addition, I havent seen anything to suggest that British Gas caused the leak in the 
pipework. On that basis, I have to conclude that neither the leak nor the consequential water 
damage is British Gass fault. Similarly, I cant say the increase in Mr Ps buildings insurance 
premium is British Gass fault. And so I cant ask British Gas to compensate Mr P for what he 
and his family have been through.My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
5 October 2020.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman