DRN-2213901
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with their home insurer Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance 
Plc (RSA) because it avoided their policy (treated it as though it hadnt existed) on 
grounds of fraud from the point RSA felt the fraud had occurred.
What happened
There was a fire at Mr and Mrs Ps home. Mr P was able to put it out with water but some 
furniture and contents items suffered damage. RSA was contacted and it sent a cleaning 
company to Mr and Mrs Ps home. Items were packed and taken away  the company told 
Mr and Mrs P that certain items had been damaged beyond repair, notably a rug, some 
curtains and some books. All Mr and Mrs Ps items were returned to them  those that had 
been cleaned and those which had not.
Values for most of the beyond repair items were considered by RSA but it asked 
Mr and Mrs P to obtain a valuation for the rug.
Mr and Mrs P took the rug to a specialist. Mr P and the specialist discussed the rug and the 
specialist told Mr P that his initial assessment was it would cost £2,000  £3,000 to replace. 
The specialist agreed to provide a formal valuation. When it carried out some further 
research it decided the rug could be replaced for £1,450. It also added comments to the 
valuation document stating that it thought the rug could be cleaned. It sent this document to 
Mr and Mrs P.
Mr P was disappointed to see the replacement value was now half that hed been led to 
believe he could expect. He also noticed the cleaning option. He asked the specialist to 
revise his quote for replacement (given the price originally discussed) and asked that the 
comment regarding cleaning be removed, because what he had asked for, and been asked 
to provide by RSA, was a valuation for replacement. On 26 February 2019 a revised 
document was provided  the reference to the possibility of cleaning was removed and the 
price was increased by £100 to £1,550.
Meanwhile RSA had a concern about the number of bedrooms in the house  it thought 
there were more than had been declared to it. It sent an investigator to Mr and Mrs Ps 
property to look into the matter and discuss it with them. The investigator felt there was an 
extra bedroom (a downstairs room being used as a bedroom). Mr and Mrs P initially said 
the room was nothing more than a storeroom which happened to have a bed in it, but 
during the conversation they agreed their son, studying at university, used this room when 
he was at home. RSA noted an extra bedroom would have meant an increased premium 
would have been applied and it revised the cost of cover.
However, whilst at their home the investigator noticed Mr and Mrs P had re-hung the 
curtains that had been returned to them which the cleaning company had said were beyond 
repair; the investigator didnt think there was much wrong with them. She noted some 
books returned as beyond repair were bagged on the kitchen table. She began making 
enquiries as she was concerned that Mr and Mrs P were keeping beyond repair items but 
claiming their replacement cost from RSA. Mr and Mrs P explained that the books, for 
personal reasons, needed to be disposed of in a certain way.
On 12 April 2019 Mr and Mrs P sent the rug valuation to RSAs investigator. The 
investigator made enquiries with the rug specialist and discovered that the document 
Mr and Mrs P had provided had been amended at their request. RSA decided this was 
fraud, particularly as Mr P had pressurised the specialist to increase its valuation and 
withheld from RSA information that showed the item couldve been cleaned. RSA said it 
was avoiding Mr and Mrs Ps policy on the grounds of fraud.
In respect of a concern Mr and Mrs P had raised to it about a scratch in their laminate 
flooring which they thought RSAs contractor had done, RSA said this issue was further 
evidence of Mr and Mrs P trying to gain unfairly from the insurance contract. RSA said its 
contractor had taken photos of the property when it first attended and these showed the 
scratch in the flooring was already there. RSA said it is a prominent scratch and its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs P wouldnt have known it was there.
Mr and Mrs P sought advice from a loss assessor which then made a complaint to us on 
their behalf. Our investigator felt RSA had acted unfairly by alleging fraud and avoiding the 
policy. He said RSA should accept the claim and pay the loss assessors costs as well as
£500 compensation.
Mr and Mrs P said they were happy with the findings. RSA objected to them. RSA said Mr 
and Mrs P had consistently acted with a lack of good faith, particularly regarding the
valuation. RSA said it had told Mr and Mrs P at the outset that it would want to repair where 
possible, with replacement being a last resort. It had noted that the specialist had also told 
Mr and Mrs P that the insurer would likely want to know if the item could be repaired. Yet, 
RSA said, Mr and Mrs P had actively chosen to withhold from it the fact that the specialist, 
whom it thought was better qualified to say so than its cleaning company, had said that the 
rug could be repaired.
Our investigator reviewed matters and confirmed on more than one occasion to RSA that 
he felt it had acted unfairly by accusing Mr and Mrs P of fraud. He said it should consider 
their claim, pay the costs for Mr and Mrs Ps assessor, and £500 compensation. RSA 
disagreed and the complaint was passed to me for review.
I also felt the complaint should be upheld but felt slightly different redress was required. 
I issued a provisional decision to explain what I felt was required. My provisional findings 
and suggested redress were:
I note that our investigator didnt direct RSA to reinstate the cover  and the claim cant be 
considered without any policy against which to frame it. The record of the fraud and 
cancellation will also likely need removing as my current conclusion is that the accusation of 
fraud and the act of cancelling the policy were unfair and unreasonable. But I also note the 
award regarding the assessors costs and Im not minded to make RSA reimburse these. 
We are a freely available service which Mr and Mrs P could have utilised rather than 
incurring costs. So Im issuing a provisional decision to allow both parties to comment on 
my findings before a final decision is made.I understand RSA is unhappy with how it perceives Mr and Mrs P have acted at times 
during this claim. However, I think RSA acted unfairly when it alleged fraud in respect of the 
valuation. Simply put I dont think RSA has ever tried to see this from Mr and Mrs Ps 
perspective.
Whilst I note that RSA said it had explained to them how it usually likes to settle claims, by 
the point Mr P spoke with the specialist Mr P had been told the rug was beyond repair and 
would need replacing. He had no reason to doubt that advice and he was not told to seek a 
specialists advice about whether or not repair was possible. I accept the specialist did 
advise Mr P that the insurer would likely want to know whether or not an item can be 
cleaned. But the specialist was not aware of what point Mr Ps claim was at. Conversely, 
Mr P was aware  he had been told to obtain a replacement price. In light of that I dont 
think it was unreasonable that he seemingly disregarded or at least disagreed with the 
specialists unbidden advice.
It therefore, in my mind, seems to follow naturally and with no suggestion of deceit attached 
that, when the valuation with the repair estimate was received by Mr and Mrs P they asked 
for this to be amended. They were merely seeking to obtain the evidence that RSA had 
asked them to provide  a replacement valuation.
In terms of the value it also doesnt surprise me that they asked the specialist to review this. 
The specialist himself told RSA that he had given Mr and Mrs P an initial value which was 
revised following research. Yet he doesnt seem to have managed Mr and Mrs Ps 
expectations in this respect. He didnt tell them that the value might change or explain in the 
valuation that it had changed as result of research undertaken. So it doesnt surprise me 
that Mr and Mrs P were disappointed when they saw the figure on the document and felt it 
necessary to ask for the value to be revised.
I accept that Mr and Mrs P orchestrated the amendment of the document. But I also accept 
that was done only with a view to obtaining what they reasonably thought they were entitled 
to receive from the policy at that point in their particular claim and given what RSA had 
asked them to do. Theyd been told the item was beyond repair and to get a price for 
replacement so RSA could settle the claim. They went about doing that, Im satisfied that 
was the intent behind their actions, not to gain a benefit from the policy to which they knew 
they werent entitled (which would be fraud). I think the accusation of fraud coupled with the 
act of cancelling the policy, was unfair and unreasonable.
RSA clearly has concerns about some of Mr and Mrs Ps other actions. Whilst I note they 
had wanted the books back I understand this was so they could be disposed of in a certain 
way. This has been independently verified and confirmed by a reliable source. In any event 
RSAs file shows that all items deemed beyond repair were returned to Mr and Mrs P, not 
because theyd asked for them to be, but because the cleaning company RSA had 
instructed didnt offer a disposal service.
I agree it is odd that Mr and Mrs P felt able to use the curtains the cleaning company had 
deemed beyond repair. But if RSA is upset about that I suggest it reviews the work 
undertaken and the decisions made by its cleaning company  it wasnt up to Mr and Mrs P 
to second guess what they were told by RSAs experts. And I bear in mind that they hadnt 
had any settlement for the curtains at that time with which to buy replacements  so I dont 
think its fair to say they pocketed funds they knew they werent due because they could still 
use the curtains. I think its more likely that they needed window coverings until such a time 
as RSA completed its enquiries and put them in funds to replace them. Usually they 
wouldnt have that option, as once an insurer decides items are beyond repair they are 
disposed of (apart from in certain circumstances, such as with Mr and Mrs Ps books). But 
RSAs process, on this occasion, was different.Turning to the scratch to the laminate, RSA thinks Mr and Mrs P must have known it was 
there. They say they did not. It isnt unusual, in my experience, for home owners to not 
always notice minor damage that occurs to their home with little incident, only for them to 
note that damage when a significant and/or unusual, unrelated incident occurs. Ive no 
reason to doubt Mr and Mrs P when they say they only noticed it after RSAs cleaning 
company had been in and completed work on their home. It wasnt unreasonable for them 
to raise this with RSA as a possible issue of damage caused by its contractor. RSAs 
conclusion that they must have known about it and, therefore, had set out to dupe RSA into 
replacing their flooring, was, in my view, unreasonable.
RSAs investigator clearly had a view about the store/bed room. Mr and Mrs P had a 
different view. In the end they agreed it was a bedroom. That doesnt mean they set out to 
deceive or mislead RSA. In any event RSA has taken action to correct the situation, which 
didnt involve it accusing them of deliberately misleading it when the policy was arranged or 
renewed  which Mr and Mrs P havent to date objected to.
That being said there is legislation that exists which deals with the obligations and rights of 
both parties when a policy is arranged or renewed. The important aspect of that legislation 
in respect of this situation is that if misleading information is provided which would 
otherwise have meant a higher premium would be charged, and there is a claim being 
considered, the insurer may pro-rate the claim settlement in line with the difference in 
premium (that which would have been charged against that which was). Theres no 
provision for the insurer to revise the policy premium. But I see no issue, where the parties 
are both happy to do so, in agreements being made that dont reflect the strict obligations 
set out in, and the rights afforded by, the legislation. And that seems to be what has 
occurred here.
Whilst Mr and Mrs P have, in the latter stages of their claim, utilised a loss assessor, it is 
clear to me that theyve been caused upset by RSAs allegations. Theyve also had the 
worry of having their policy withdrawn and being without cover. RSA should never have put 
them in that position. Whilst I cant reasonably require RSA to cover the loss assessors 
costs which Mr and Mrs P may incur  because we are a free service which policyholders 
can refer to if they are unhappy with an insurers decision  I can award compensation for 
distress and inconvenience suffered as a result of an unfair decision. That is what Im going 
to do here.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that RSA needs to:
Reinstate Mr and Mrs Ps policy.
Remove the record of the fraud and cancellation from its own and any external 
database.
Resume consideration of Mr and Mrs Ps claim.
Pay them £500 compensation.
RSA objected. In summary it said:
The word of the rug specialist should be accepted, not least because he was willing to 
sign a formal statement.
The context of the claim as a whole must be considered  cumulatively there was only 
one natural conclusion, Mr P acted decisively to deny RSA information.It believes it is unlikely that the scratch to the lounge floor had gone unnoticed.
It never concluded its review of the misrepresented information about the number of 
bedrooms at the property.
RSA also explained that it feels strongly that Mr and Mrs P have sought to benefit unfairly 
from this claim. It suggested I dismiss the complaint, without issuing a final decision on its 
merits, as being better suited to consideration by a court. It also said that if it is caused to 
reinstate the cover it will charge an increased premium and pro-rate the claim settlement. 
I felt these latter two points needed commenting on before I moved to make a final decision. 
I issued the following interim findings to both parties:
the complaint should be dismissed
RSA has suggested that I consider dismissing this complaint  this would mean I wouldnt 
make any final decision on the merits of the complaint. Mr and Mrs P may not be aware that 
our rules allow me to decide, where I think it is appropriate, to dismiss a complaint without 
considering it. This can be done for various reasons, but one of which is that the 
ombudsman feels the complaint is better decided by a court. We may sometimes say this is 
the case where for example, an outcome turns on the testimony of third-parties. That is 
because we cant compel third-parties to talk to us and we cant cross examine them under 
oath to verify their testimony, in the way that the courts can.
Here RSA feels that much of the complaint turns on the third-party testimony of the rug 
specialist. RSA thinks the specialists account of events should be further considered in 
order it can be fully understood how pressured he felt and how adamant he viewed Mr P as 
being, when Mr P insisted that the valuation document was changed.
Ive considered RSAs suggestion that the complaint is dismissed. But Im satisfied that is 
not appropriate or necessary here. I explained my view provisionally on the issue of the 
amended document. I noted that the rug specialist was not a party to the claim and was not 
aware of what had occurred during the claim to that date. I did not doubt that the specialist 
felt pressured, or that Mr P was adamant the document should be changed. In fact I said 
I was satisfied that Mr and Mrs P had orchestrated the amendment. But I also explained 
why I felt this had occurred and why I felt  in that particular context  the actions did not 
amount to fraud. In light of that I do not agree with RSA that this complaint needs 
dismissing as better suited to court because the specialists sworn testimony is key to any 
fair and reasonable finding being made. I do not intend to dismiss this matter.
an increased premium was not charged, but will be
The other issue raised by RSA that I need to deal with before a final decision is made is 
regarding the policy premium. I noted provisionally that in response to discovering
Mr and Mrs P had an extra bedroom, RSA said it was increasing the premium. I explained 
the legislation which exists to deal with such matters, does not allow RSA to take this 
action  it could pro-rate the claim settlement, but theres no option for it to increase the 
premium. But I said Mr and Mrs P seemed to be happy with this as an alternative to the 
claim being pro-rated, so I wouldnt make any direction for RSA to amend things. However, 
RSA has said it did not increase the premium but if my final decision remains that it should 
reinstate the policy and consider the claim, it will pro-rate the claim settlement and increase 
the policy premium.
To clarify, RSA cant do both those things  at least not as far the policy in the year of the 
claim is concerned. However, I need to take account of RSAs stated intent to, if my final 
decision remains the same, pro-rate the claim. I also need to consider RSAs comment that 
the premium wasnt increased, and the fact that the policy, had it remained in place, would 
have renewed in 2020.Given that Mr and Mrs P apparently gave RSA misleading information when they took out 
the policy, I cant reasonably say that, following my final decision should it remain the 
same, RSA should not be able to act to pro-rate the claims settlement as allowed by the 
legislation. So it may well be that any further settlement RSA makes will be pro-rated.
Regarding the premium increase, I dont accept RSAs assurance that it did not apply an 
increase before the policy was voided. RSAs file shows several references to the fact the 
premium was increased. This seems to have occurred around March 2019. And in 
April 2019 its special investigator specifically says that she previously acted to remove the 
policy reservation so that the increased premium could be applied. It was then not until 
June that action was taken to avoid the policy for fraud. It seems likely to me then that the 
monthly premium amount could easily have been increased between March and June 2019 
 RSAs considerations and actions regarding fraud dont seem to automatically preclude 
that. So if I require RSA to reinstate the policy, it must be at the original rate of premium 
from the voidance date until the 2020 renewal. And it must refund Mr and Mrs P any 
additional premium it has previously taken from them.
However, as the reinstatement will need to be to date as Mr and Mrs P shouldnt be left 
with a gap in cover due to RSAs unfair action, I think an increased premium could 
reasonably be applied from the 2020 renewal date. Thats because RSA could always have 
made a change like this at renewal because renewal is seen as a new contract. The parties 
will then be free to do what they wish at the next renewal (2021).
Neither party objected to my interim findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that RSA feels strongly about this matter. However, I dont agree with it that 
its allegation of fraud has been justified. I dont doubt the word of the rug specialist  
what he said to Mr P and what Mr and Mrs P asked him to do regardless. But as Ive 
explained the specialist was not aware of what RSA had asked Mr and Mrs P to do at 
that stage. Even in light of everything RSA has asked me to consider, I dont think its 
shown Mr and Mrs P  likely acted fraudulently. I am going to require RSA to remove its 
accusation of fraud and cancellation of the policy from its own and any external 
database.
As my interim findings above explain, it is also clear to me that RSA did conclude its 
investigations regarding the misrepresented information about the number of bedrooms at 
the property before it chose to take action in respect of the alleged fraud. I remain of the 
view that, in respect of the policy year in which the claim occurred, it cannot charge an 
increased premium. If it has done so, any increased amount will have to be refunded. 
However, it can pro-rate the claim and change the premium from the point of the renewal 
which occurred in 2020. 
My provisional findings and updated interim findings have not changed. They now form part 
of the findings of this, my final decision.Putting things right
Im satisfied that RSA needs to:
Reinstate Mr and Mrs Ps policy from the date it made it void to date, but at the 
original rate of premium (with no increase for the number of bedrooms) until the 
2020 renewal, at which point an increase can be applied.
Refund any extra premium that was added prior to the voidance on accout of the 
number of bedrooms. 
Remove the record of the fraud and cancellation from its own and any external 
database.
Resume consideration of Mr and Mrs Ps claim, which it will be able to pro-rate.
Pay them £500 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to settle the 
complaint by undertaking the actions detailed above (putting things right).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2020. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman