DRN-2875895
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly declined their claim 
for escape of water due to an endorsement on their home insurance policy.
What happened
On 19 February 2021 Mr and Mrs S found damage from an escape of water incident 
throughout their property. The property wasnt usually occupied although Mr and Mrs S were 
planning on moving in soon.
The loss adjusters report notes that Mr and Mrs S turned off the water supply on finding the 
damage.
Mr S tried to report the claim but had some issues getting through. But he was eventually 
able to register the claim with his broker on 22 February 2021. He explained the extent of the 
internal damage.
On 23 February 2021 a plumber attended the property. His report noted a burst joint of a 
pipe on the water storage tank in the loft. Ageas loss adjuster agreed that the water came 
from the cold-water storage tank located in the loft. But they couldnt be certain whether the 
pipe had burst due to cold temperatures or simply failed due to wear and tear. The loss 
adjusters report notes that Mr and Mrs Ss plumber didnt fix the leak. Mr S also said hed 
been opening all the windows on the first floor for the last two days to help to dry out the 
property.
On 24 February 2021 Mr S said he spoke to an agent of Ageas. They asked him to provide 
the plumbers report and further details of the damage. Ageas said that Mr S told them the 
water supply to the property had been turned on before the escape of water. Mr S said the 
water was on so that the property could be heated during a cold period.
On 26 February 2021 Ageas said they e-mailed Mr S to decline the claim due to the 
following exclusion in the policy schedule:
AF024 - Unoccupied Endorsement and refers to:
3. Cover in respect of escape of water or burst pipes irrespective of the initial or proximate 
cause shall only apply provided that the water be turned off at the mains.
Mr and Mrs S told Ageas they werent aware of the endorsement and asked for their claim to 
be reviewed. In their final response letter, Ageas confirmed their decision to decline the 
claim due to the endorsement. But they noted that Mr and Mrs S may be able to complain to 
their brokers about that.
So Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He 
felt that the extent of the damage was directly linked to the endorsement not being met. So 
he felt that Ageas could rely on the endorsement.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. They felt that whether the water had been turned off or not, there 
would still have been some damage from the water inside the tank. They felt Ageas should 
be liable for that damage. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S feel strongly that some damage wouldve been caused by the water in the 
system and in the tank even if the mains had been turned off. They feel Ageas should be 
liable for that damage. Ageas think that the endorsement means they can fairly decline cover 
for all of the damage. So I need to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. 
Its a condition of Mr and Mrs Ss policy that unless the water is turned off at the mains, no 
cover will be provided for an escape of water or burst pipes incident, regardless of the 
cause. 
The exact wording of endorsement AF024, which was printed on the second page of the 
policy schedule is:
1. It is warranted that the Insured or his representatives visit the premises for internal 
and external inspection purposes at least once every 14 days and a record of all 
such inspections to be kept and any defects revealed by such inspections remedied 
immediately.
2. All loose material to be kept clear of the home.
3. Cover in respect of escape of water or burst pipes irrespective of the initial or 
proximate cause shall only apply provided that the water be turned off at the mains.
In my opinion, the endorsement was clearly worded and placed in a relatively prominent 
position on the policy schedule. Its also a common endorsement for home insurance 
policies like this one, which provides cover for an unoccupied property. 
Mr and Mrs S have said they werent aware of the endorsement. They made a separate 
complaint to their broker about this. 
But in relation to their complaint about Ageas, Ageas only provided escape of water and 
burst pipes cover for Mr and Mrs S if the water was turned off at the mains.
Mr and Mrs S acknowledge that the water was turned on. But that they did this so that they 
could heat the property during a cold spell. They felt this was what any reasonable person 
would do. 
I consider that Ageas can fairly and reasonably rely on the endorsement as long as the 
damage was caused, or was made worse, because the water was turned on. 
Was the damage made worse because the water was on?
To decide whether Ageas have fairly declined the claim, citing the endorsement, I need to 
consider whether the damage was caused or made worse by the mains water being on.
Mr S said: Whether or not the water was turned off from the mains, there still would have been some sort of damage from the water within the system and tank. Mr and Mrs Ss 
plumber suggested that the tank itself contained in excess of 1000 litres of water. In his 
report he said: Considerable damage to the ceilings, wall and flooring, couldve still been 
possible if the water contained in the system had escaped, with stopcock closed.
On receiving the plumbers report, Ageas sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damage. They 
found that the tank actually had a capacity of around 120 litres, not 1000. The loss adjusters 
report notes: Had the water been turned off at the mains supply, as per the Unoccupied 
Endorsement, we believe that there would have only been a small element of damage when 
the cold-water storage tank emptied itself as opposed to the water continually running which 
in turn caused additional damage.
The loss adjusters report also said: had the water supply been turned off, we believe that 
the damage would have relatively minor in comparison to what was seen onsite and would 
have mainly comprised of redecoration to the upper levels with potential plaster-work to the 
ceilings. 
Having read both the plumbers and the loss adjusters reports, and having seen the photos 
of the cold-water tank, Im more persuaded by the loss adjusters points. Im satisfied that as 
the mains hadnt been switched off, the tank wouldve kept re-filling and more and more 
water was allowed to escape, causing considerably more damage. 
I agree with Mr and Mrs S that some damage wouldve been caused from the tank emptying 
even if the mains water had been turned off. But Ageas only provided escape of water cover 
if the terms of the endorsement were met. And its clear in the circumstances of this case 
that they were not.
I note that Mr S said: Unless an independent expert could comment on the reason for the 
initial leak that claim should not be dismissed. But the wording of the endorsement rules out 
cover in respect of escape of water or burst pipes regardless of the cause. So I cant agree.
So despite my sympathy for the situation Mr and Mr S find themselves in, I cant reasonably 
say that Ageas have unfairly declined their claim for escape of water damage. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman