DRN-4007753
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with how Zopa Limited handled her request to cancel her consolidation 
loan and reopen the original loans shed held with them.
What happened
On 17 October 2022, Mrs R took out a consolidation loan which was used to clear two 
existing loans Mrs R held with Zopa at that time. A few days later, on 19 October, Mrs R 
called Zopa and asked to cancel the new loan and have the original two loans reinstated. 
Zopas agent advised Mrs R that she would need to pay £84.66 in due interest to be able to 
cancel the new loan but didnt explain to Mrs R that Zopa wouldnt be able to reinstate the 
two older loans, given that theyd now been settled. 
Mrs R made the payment of £84.66 in line with what Zopas agent had told her. Then, having 
not heard anything about the reinstating of the two old loans, she contacted Zopa about this 
on 11 November. Mrs R was then told that she wasnt able to cancel her consolidation loan 
because Zopa couldnt reopen the loans that had been settled by the new loan. Mrs R wasnt 
happy about this, so she raised a complaint. 
Zopa confirmed to Mrs R that they cant reopen settled loans. Zopa apologised that this 
hadnt been made clear to Mrs R when shed first spoken with them and offered to pay £25 
to her as compensation for any trouble and upset that she may have incurred as a result. 
Mrs R wasnt satisfied with Zopas response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt it was reasonable for Zopa to not 
be able to reopen settled loans. But they didnt feel that £25 offer of compensation Zopa had 
made for the provision of incorrect information to Mrs R was fair and recommended that 
Zopa should pay £100 compensation to Mrs R in settlement of this complaint. Zopa didnt 
agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zopa dont dispute that Mrs R wasnt given the correct information when she first asked to 
cancel the consolidation loan and to reinstate the two older loans the new loan had been 
used to settle. And Zopa have apologised to Mrs R for this and offered to make a payment of 
£25 to her as compensation for the frustration and inconvenience she incurred as a result. 
I dont feel the £25 offered by Zopa provides fair compensation to Mrs R here, given what 
happened, and I agree with our investigator that Zopa should pay a further £75 to Mrs Z  for 
a total compensation amount of £100  in light of the trouble and upset shes encountered. 
I say this because when Mrs R first contacted Zopa on 19 October 2022, it should have been 
made clear to her at that time that she couldnt reinstate the two original loans as she 
wanted to. But Zopas agent didnt explain this to Mrs R, and instead told her to make a 
payment of £84.66  which Mrs R subsequently paid, on the understanding that her new 
loan would be cancelled and the two original loans reinstated. As such, Im satisfied that 
Zopas agent did give Mrs R a false expectation of what would happen and instructed her to 
make a payment that would never have led to Mrs R achieving the result she wanted. 
Additionally, it was only when Mrs R contacted Zopa herself  on 11 November  having 
heard nothing from them up to that time, that it was explained to her that her desired 
outcome had never been possible because Zopa werent able to reinstate settled loans. 
It also appears that Mrs R wasnt given completely accurate information at this stage, as she 
was led to believe that her new loan couldnt be cancelled. This wasnt correct, and in the 
absence of being able to reinstate the original loans Mrs R could have cancelled her new 
loan if shed been able to clear the remaining capital balance of the loan at that time. And 
this information was only made given to Mrs R by Zopa in their response to her complaint 
dated 19 December 2022.
As such, Im satisfied that Zopa misled Mrs R about the feasibility of her request to reinstate 
the two original loans and led her to make a payment to her new loan on a false 
understanding. And Im also satisfied that Zopa then missed a further opportunity to 
accurately appraise Mrs R of her options regarding her loan  which wasnt done by Zopa 
until two months after Mrs R had initially contacted them. And I feel that because of these 
factors, Mrs R did incur an unnecessary degree of confusion, frustration, and inconvenience 
that she shouldnt fairly or reasonably have had to incur. 
As such, I dont feel that the £25 compensation amount offered by Zopa is a fair amount 
here, given the full circumstances of this complaint. And so, my final decision will that I 
uphold this complaint in Mrs Rs favour and that Zopa must pay higher compensation, 
totalling £100, to Mrs R  a £75 increase from their initial offer. 
Putting things right
Zopa must pay compensation totalling £100 to Mrs R.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Zopa Bank Limited on basis 
described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman