DRN-4071320
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain Tesco Personal Finance Plc (Tesco) failed to honour the 
amended interest rate on a revised loan agreement. 
What happened
Mr M says he applied online to Tesco for a joint loan with his wife for home improvements in 
early August 2022 and was sent a loan agreement with an Annual Percentage Rate (APR) of 
14.9%. Mr M says although he thought the APR was fairly high, he and his wife signed and 
returned the agreement a few days later. Mr M says following a telephone conversation with 
Tesco he was informed the APR had changed and new documentation would be sent with a 
significantly lower APR. Mr M says he and his wife then signed and returned the new loan 
agreement after being informed this was correct, only to be told later by Tesco it was a 
mistake and it could only offer the initial loan agreement at 14.9%.
Mrs M and Mr M feels Tesco are legally obliged to provide the loan at the revised second 
correct offer. Mrs M and Mr M want Tesco to honour the revised loan agreement at the 
lower APR and pay compensation for the trouble and upset caused, above the £300 it has 
already paid. 
Tescos says there was a system issue that created the second loan agreement at the lower 
APR and Mrs M and Mr M were not eligible for this lower APR. Tesco apologised for the 
poor customer service Mrs M and Mr M received during the application process and paid 
them £300 by way of compensation.
Mrs M and Mr M werent happy with Tescos response and referred the matter to this 
service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says while Tesco had made a mistake when issuing the revised loan agreement, 
because of an agent editing the loan request which inadvertently set the lower APR, that 
didnt mean Tesco had to offer that APR to Mrs M and Mr M. The investigator says he 
couldnt comment on Mrs M and Mr Ms legal position only what this service felt was fair and 
reasonable, and given Tesco had apologised for the error it had made and paid them £300 
by way of apology it had acted fairly. 
Mrs M and Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating and upsetting for Mrs M and Mr M to have 
understood Tesco had revised its loan offer to a much lower APR, only to be told it was a 
mistake and the original loan was all it could agree to. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Tesco should now honour the second revised 
loan agreement at the lower APR it sent to Mrs M and Mr M. 
The first thing to say here is Mrs M and Mr M have also made mention of the complaint 
process of Tesco, but its not the role of this service to scrutinise Tescos complaints process 
or to tell it how it should deal with complaints more widely. My role is to look at whats fair 
and reasonable in the individual circumstances of a complaint so Ill be looking at whether 
Tesco need to do more here than the £300 compensation it has paid Mrs M and Mr M for the 
poor service it provided back in August 2022. The investigator has also explained that were 
not legal advisors simply an impartial service to help settle disputes between consumers and 
UK based financial companies.
From the information provided to this service its clear Tesco have made an error when it 
sent the revised second loan agreement to Mrs M and Mr M offering a lower APR in mid- 
August 2022 and it has accepted that, apologised and paid them £300. 
From the information sent by both parties and having listened to the two phones calls Mr M 
refers to, it seems the error was made following a request to alter the repayment date by Mrs 
M and Mr M when they sent the original signed loan agreement dated 10 August 2022. In 
one of the telephone calls Mr M asks if its possible to amend the loan payment date to 
closer to the end of the month and he is told that isnt possible and it would be best to leave 
things and amend it at a later date, which he accepted.  
Tesco have confirmed an agent at some point in error attempted to revise the agreement 
which in error triggered a new loan agreement at a lower APR, and this was sent to Mrs M 
and Mr M. Unfortunately, in the meantime Mr M received a message to call Tesco again and 
without knowing what had taken place the agent confirmed the loan agreement had been 
altered now to a substantially lower APR, but now with no initial payment holiday, not 
knowing exactly why this had happened. 
Having listened to the call recordings and the evidence provided by Tesco its fair to say this 
revised loan agreement was a mistake by Tesco and it has accepted that. I say this because 
its hard to say that Tesco, who had already underwritten the loan previously at a higher 
APR, would then without further discussions with Mrs M and Mr M, remove the payment 
break, not change the payment date as asked, and substantially reduce the APR, unless a 
mistake had been made  on balance I am satisfied it had here. 
While Tesco have clearly made an error and without trying to minimise the frustration this 
would have undoubtedly caused Mrs M and Mr M, its not my role to penalise businesses 
when genuine mistakes like this occur only to see it apologies in those circumstances and 
puts the customer back to the position it would have been before that mistake, and I am 
satisfied it did that here. 
Taking everything into account it wouldnt be fair of me to tell Tesco it must now provide the 
loan to Mrs M and Mr M at the lower APR on the second loan agreement they signed, rather 
than the first signed loan agreement, simply due to an error and misunderstanding by a 
member of its staff  that said it should offer redress for that mistake. Here Tesco have paid 
Mrs M and Mr M £300 for this and the poor service at that time, and I am satisfied that is a 
fair and reasonable offer in the circumstances.
While Mrs M and Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Tesco. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman