DRN-4479438
The complaint
Mr M has complained PrePay Technologies Limited, trading as PrePay Solutions, did 
nothing to intervene and stop payments Mr M was making which turned out to be an 
investment scam.
What happened
Mr M has held an account with an institution (who Ill call M) for a long period of time. M is a 
registered agent of P.
In late 2022 Mr M saw an advert on Facebook encouraging him to invest in cryptocurrency. 
He got in touch and was contacted by an individual through a social media network.
At the same time, Mr M felt hed undertaken the right checks to ensure the company he was 
investing with (who Ill call P) was genuine.
Someone from the company encouraged him to load software onto his laptop allowing them 
to help him set up an account with an electronic money provider (who Ill call S). 
Mr M set up an account with S and over a six-week period transferred money from his 
account with M (including money hed borrowed from family). He made six payments of 
£792, £2,600, £3,561, £3,626, £4,800 and £2,202. Three small credits were also received by 
Mr M amounting to £67.
After complaining to PrePay that hed been a victim of a scam, PrePay told Mr M they were 
not required to refund him as hed made payments to an account held in his name. Mr M 
brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. She believed there was no attempt by PrePay to 
intervene and they should have noticed the increasing frequency of payments being made to 
S. She asked them to repay payments from the fourth inwards. However she noted Mr M 
should bear some responsibility for what happened and felt he should bear half of those 
losses.
Mr M accepted this outcome. PrePay didnt and said Mr M should bear the full loss. Theyve 
asked an ombudsman to consider this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
I dont dispute Mr M was scammed and has lost a considerable amount of money including 
some that he borrowed. He has my sympathy about what he has gone through.
Theres no dispute that Mr M made and authorised all of the payments. Mr M believed he 
was loading up his account with S enabling trading to be carried out. 
Im satisfied the transactions were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
Its generally accepted that PrePay has an obligation to follow Mr Ms instructions. So in the 
first instance Mr M is presumed liable for his loss. But thats not the end of the story.
I appreciate that as an e-money provider, PrePay wouldnt have been subject to all of the 
same rules and regulations as banks and building societies. However they would importantly 
be subject to FCAs Principles for businesses and, under BCOBS 2, has a duty to protect its 
customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as reasonably possible.
Taking these aspects into account, I consider that PrePay should have had systems in place 
to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers were 
at risk of fraud. 
Mr M fell victim to an investment scam. These unfortunately arent particularly unusual but 
are invidious in the way those carrying out the scam inveigle themselves into someones 
trust. 
Ive noted the detail within our investigators view of 23 October 2023, along with PrePays 
response to that view, dated 20 November 2023.
At no stage did PrePay intervene or ask Mr M what he was doing. I note there were generic 
warnings provided in-app as Mr M was making the transactions, but these bore little 
relevance to Mr Ms situation so I can see why he wouldnt have acted upon them.
I consider that PrePay should have done more to identify the large, and unusual, payments 
Mr M was making to S. And if theyd done so, I believe this would have meant Mr M would 
have become aware he was the victim of a scam.
I say this because whilst PrePay argue that the payments were made over an extended 
period, I believe the trigger should be when the fourth payment was attempted. This is only 
three days after a payment of similar amount and would I believe have indicated to PrePay 
the nature of the transactions Mr M may have been making.
I cant be sure that if PrePay had intervened, Mr M would have listened to their warnings, but 
Ive seen nothing which would indicate that he wouldnt. Its the case that Mr M had not been 
given any story by the fraudsters to tell PrePay. And I think theres a high likelihood Mr M 
would have told them he was investing with P. This would have alerted them to the nature of 
the scam Mr M was involved in. At this stage the FCA had issued a scam warning about P 
so I believe PrePay should have stopped Mr M from making any further payments.
However Im going to be asking PrePay to only pay half of Mr Ms losses from the time I 
believe they should have intervened. I say this because:
Im not convinced Mr M did carry out suitable research into the company he was 
trading with. There was an outstanding FCA warning and if Mr M had looked 
thoroughly I believe he would have noticed this. Mr M was an innocent in the arena of 
investing so I wouldnt expect him to be fully aware. However I think by late-2022, he 
may well have seen warnings about cryptocurrency and investment scams as these were increasingly widespread.
Online reviews of P also indicate to me that Mr M didnt carry out sufficient research 
into what he was doing.
I appreciate PrePays stance that Mr M made transfers to an account in his name so believe 
he should pursue a complaint with S. Im not satisfied that that account, whilst in Mr Ms 
name, was in his sole control as Im aware that Mr M had downloaded software to his laptop 
which enabled P to help him set up the account with S. So Im happy that PrePay make 
good for part of Mr Ms losses. 
Putting things right
As I believe PrePay should have intervened prior to the fourth payment being made, Mr Ms 
losses amounted to £10,628. PrePay will need to refund half of that which amounts to 
£5,314, minus £14 for the two credits Mr M received. 8% simple interest a year will also 
need to be added to this amount from the dates of Mr Ms losses (6, 7 and 9 February).
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct PrePay Technologies Limited, trading 
as PrePay Solutions, to:
Refund £5,300 to Mr M; and
Add 8% simple interest dated from Mr Ms losses on 6, 7 and 9 February until the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman