DRN-3805546
The complaint
Mr R complains about the time it took Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to provide him with 
information about his investment, which led to the value of the investment decreasing. 
What happened
On 25 February 2022, Mr R called Aviva to find out the amount of the chargeable gain and 
tax liability on his bonds, with a view to surrendering them. He was concerned about the 
impact that the war in Ukraine would have on the investment markets. The person Mr R 
spoke to was unable to give him the information over the phone, but said that they would find 
out and call him back. 
On 9 March 2022 as he hadnt yet received anything, he called again and raised a complaint 
about the service provided so far. The information was sent to him by email on 11 March. On 
16 March, Aviva replied to the complaint and sent him a cheque for £100 to compensate him 
for the delay in sending the information about the chargeable gain. Mr R didnt agree this 
addressed his concerns, as his investment had decreased by around 10% and he wanted 
Aviva to make up for his losses. So, he returned the cheque for £100, and later brought his 
complaint to our service. He explained he hadnt yet surrendered the investment because he 
thought that would impact the complaint.
An investigator at our service looked into the complaint and found that the offer Aviva had 
made was fair. She found Aviva caused a delay of a week in sending the information, and 
that this caused distress and inconvenience. She felt that Mr R wouldnt have sold the 
investments on 25 February 2022, so wouldnt be entitled to the value of it on that day. She 
also found that he could have mitigated his perceived losses by surrendering the 
investments. At the time of writing her opinion in August 2022, she found that the value of his 
investments was higher than it was in February and so Mr R could surrender at that time, 
without suffering any loss.
Mr R didnt agree  he said that he wanted and intended to cash in the investment in 
February, but needed the information from Aviva in order to do so. He said that he felt the 
delay caused by Aviva was longer than the investigator had calculated  he remembers 
being told on 25 February that he would receive this information by phone within 24 hours. 
So, he felt Aviva should pay him the value of the bond as at 26 or 27 February. The 
investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind, so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered whether Aviva caused delays in sending Mr R the information he requested 
and if so, whether that delay caused him any financial loss, distress or inconvenience. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. 
Ive listened to the call between Mr R and Aviva from 25 February 2022 and during it Mr R 
requested information about the tax liability that would arise if he were to surrender his 
bonds. The call handler at Aviva explained he wasnt able to provide that information and 
would have to request it and once he had the information, he would call Mr R back to 
discuss it. He didnt give a timeframe for the call back. The correct process wasnt then 
followed  the right department didnt receive a request for the information. Aviva agrees this 
was a mistake. 
It was also incorrect for the call handler to say that he would receive the information and call 
Mr R back to discuss it. Aviva has explained that the normal process is that the relevant 
department sends this out to customers in writing, via post, which would take up to five 
working days plus postage time. This isnt unusual  calculating chargeable gains and the 
amount of tax treated as paid on a bond, is not something all staff at Aviva would reasonably 
be expected to do, as it requires expertise. So, Im satisfied its not unreasonable for this 
question not to have been answered in the call itself. However, I would expect Aviva to have 
explained this to Mr R in the call and to have let him know roughly how long the information 
would take to arrive. 
Based on the above, had everything gone as it should, Mr R likely ought to have received 
the information about the chargeable gain on his investments at some point during the week 
beginning 7 March 2022. As it was his plan to wait for that information prior to surrendering 
his investment, I dont think he would have received the value of the investment in February. 
Im persuaded the earliest he likely would have surrendered it would have been some point 
after 7 March. 
Overall, I agree that Aviva has caused delays to Mr R receiving the information of around a 
week. Im also persuaded that Mr Rs original intent was to sell his investment, after 
receiving the information on the chargeable gain. Ive gone on to consider whether its fair 
and reasonable to say that Aviva is the cause of the losses that Mr R has claimed for. 
Normally, my starting point would be to look at the difference between the price Mr R should 
have achieved and the one he did achieve. However, that approach wouldnt be fair here, 
and Ill explain why.
When Mr R received the information  a few days after it was posted to him on 11 March  
he didnt surrender the investments and so didnt crystalise any loss. Mr R explained that he 
didnt want to jeopardise the complaint in any way  or make Aviva think that he accepted 
that they werent at fault for the delay causing the value to drop. Hes not explained why he 
thought that would be the impact of surrendering the investments. I have to say that its not 
correct  surrendering an investment wouldnt have prevented him from pursuing a 
complaint.  Ive not seen any evidence that Aviva are at fault for this impression  for 
instance their response to his complaint didnt say that accepting the £100 offered, or 
surrendering the investments, would mean he couldnt complain further. 
Ive also noted that in August the investigator let Mr R know that he could have surrendered 
the investments without being prevented from pursuing the complaint. She also pointed out 
that the unit price for the fund Mr R was invested in, was higher than it had been in February. 
So, if he had surrendered the investments in August 2022, he wouldnt have made a loss.  
Ive considered the unit price of the investment in the week beginning 7 March 2022, as 
thats when I think Mr R would have surrendered the investments had everything gone as it 
should have. The highest unit price that week was 13.18 and there have been several times 
when Mr R could have achieved a higher value than that over the months since. That 
includes after the investigator let him know he could surrender the investment without 
impacting the complaint. I appreciate that on 9 March 2022 when he made his complaint, Mr R did perceive a loss to 
his investment compared with the value given in February, and this would naturally have 
been disappointing. However I dont think Aviva are the main cause of this perceived loss, 
nor do I think it would be fair to say that Aviva ought to pay the value Mr R would have 
received, had the bonds been surrendered in February or March 2022. This is because Mr R 
has had the opportunity to surrender the investment at a higher value since then and 
therefore mitigate any perceived losses. 
Mr R has chosen not to surrender the investment, despite having the opportunity, and Im 
satisfied that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to hold Aviva responsible for his perceived 
loss as a result. 
That being said, I am persuaded that Aviva caused unnecessary delays and gave Mr R 
unclear and incorrect information. I think the offer of £100 is fair and reasonable to make up 
for the inconvenience and uncertainty caused by those errors.  
My final decision
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay Mr R £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman