DRN-3226018
The complaint
Mr H complains U K Insurance Limited trading as Green Flag (UKI) unfairly declined a claim 
against his breakdown insurance policy. 
Mr H wants an apology and compensation for the way things were handled. 
What happened
In October 2021, Mr H suffered a puncture to two tyres and a damaged wheel as a result of 
clipping a kerb or pothole. Mr H only had one spare wheel, so he contacted UKI for 
assistance. Mr H said the incident occurred roughly 60 miles from his home in an unfamiliar 
location late at night. 
Mr H said UKIs online app wasnt working so he phoned them. And when he described what 
had happened, UKI said no assistance would be given as the circumstances were an 
accident, rather than a breakdown.
Mr H wasnt happy with this. He and his passenger were recovered as the passenger had 
alternative cover in place. But Mr H thinks UKI acted unfairly by declining to offer assistance 
given the circumstances. So, he raised a complaint. 
UKI looked into the complaint but maintained their position. They referred to the policy terms 
and said the punctures and damage occurred as a result of an accident, rather than a 
breakdown. As Mr H remained unhappy, he brought a complaint to this service for an 
impartial review. 
An investigator here considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She felt 
UKI applied the policy terms fairly as Mr H had clipped either a kerb or pothole which 
resulted in the incident occurring  rather than a breakdown. 
Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide. So, the case was passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms define a breakdown as a mechanical or electrical failure, amongst other 
things, and flat tyres. But the policy also says any costs to do with accidents that would 
usually be covered by car insurance arent covered. UKI relied on this when declining to offer 
Mr H assistance. 
Mr H says UKI should have assisted given he reported two punctures and the policy covers 
this. He also said punctures are in their very nature accidental which I do accept. 
I can understand why Mr H is frustrated and I do take his point of view. But its important I 
explain the policy isnt intended to provide an accident recovery service which was the type 
of assistance required in this case, based on what Mr H described. Whilst very minor, the 
incident occurred as a result of a road traffic accident, whereby Mr H clipped either a kerb or 
a pothole which resulted in his vehicle becoming immobile. 
Mr H says UKIs policy wording is ambiguous and they treated him unfairly when failing to 
assist him. But had Mr H clipped another object or obstruction, such as a third-party vehicle 
or traffic barrier for example, and the resultant damage was the same as it is in this case, I 
wouldnt expect the policy to provide Mr H with assistance. This is because this would also 
be deemed as a road traffic accident, such as what happened here. 
So, in this case, whilst the road traffic accident was minor given Mr H clipped either a kerb or 
pothole, Im not satisfied the policy is intended to cover such incidents. 
I must emphasise I do take Mr Hs comments and accept the road traffic accident was minor. 
And whilst he and his passenger were able to get recovery back home, Ive no doubt being 
60 miles from home late at night with an immobile vehicle would have been frustrating and 
concerning. But in this case, on balance, Im satisfied the incident occurred as a result of 
damage being caused to the vehicle by a road traffic accident. So, whilst I do accept why   
Mr H thinks UKI acted unfairly, Im not satisfied they did based on the circumstances of this 
case. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr H. But my decision ends what we 
 in attempting to resolve his dispute with UKI  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman