DRN-1802372
The complaint
Mr W has complained in his capacity as the trustee of a trust, D, that HSBC UK Bank plc 
acted unreasonably in the course of carrying out a check on the information held on the 
trust.
Mr W is legally represented. The representative says HSBC sent threatening letters, took an 
unreasonably long time to review information once supplied and failed to confirm that its 
review had been satisfactorily completed. As a result, she said Mr W was left unsure if Ds 
account would be closed or not, which caused considerable trouble and upset. 
What happened
On 21 January 2019, HSBC wrote to Mr W to say it needed the trust to update and confirm 
some business details by 11 April 2019. The letter asked Mr W to contact it as soon as 
possible to make a telephone appointment. 
In February, HSBC sent a reminder letter again asking for an appointment. 
In early April, the bank tried to phone Mr W, but later, after some exchanges, agreed to 
provide a list of its questions in writing instead. HSBC emailed the list of what it said were its 
initial questions on 23 April. 
On 10 May, Mr W replied to these questions. HSBCs case manager responded to say that 
the information would be collated and checked, but in the meantime, automatic letters will 
continue to be sent as they are system driven. 
On 20 May 2019, HSBC sent another letter, headed Important notice: This letter is to 
remind you that as we havent been able to obtain the information we require from you about 
you and your business, we will close your account on 17 June 2019. 
On 30 May, Mr W's legal representative complained to HSBC about the 20 May letter and 
the prospective account closure. HSBC replied the next day, but didnt uphold the complaint, 
although it did apologise for any concern caused by the 20 May letter. The letter mentioned 
that the bank was in the final stages of completing its review and would be in touch if it 
needed further information.
Over the next two weeks, Mr W's representatives continued to phone and email HSBCs 
case manager for updates and confirmation that the account wouldnt be closed. 
On 14 June, HSBC says that it completed its review and wrote to confirm this. Mr W has said 
that this letter was never received. HSBC took no further action and Ds account wasnt 
closed. 
In August, Mr Ws legal representative referred the complaint to this service. The letter said 
that HSBC had still not provided any update or confirmation that the account wouldnt be 
closed. In compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr W felt HSBC had caused, the 
letter asked for £1000, as well as £500 plus VAT to cover legal fees. Our investigator looked into things. She concluded that HSBC shouldnt have sent the 
20 May letter, as Mr W had already provided all the information requested. But she thought 
that HSBCs apology was sufficient and there was no need for further compensation. She 
said this because the case manager had warned Mr W that further system-generated letters 
might arrive. 
Mr W didnt accept our investigators view, so the case was passed to me. I issued a 
provisional decision on 9 June partly upholding the complaint. I said:
I didnt think HSBC should have sent the 20 May letter to D. I said this because Ds 
trustee had already provided all the information requested some ten days earlier and 
no further points had been raised. 
I didnt think the fact that it was an automated letter made any difference. 
I acknowledged that HSBCs case manager had attempted to alleviate the concern 
caused by the automated letter. But I had sympathy with Mr Ws argument that, in a 
business context, its good practice to attach more weight to formal written letters 
than verbal reassurance or emails.
I thought that it was clear that Mr W had been distressed and inconvenienced by this 
letter. He had appointed a lawyer and his representatives had repeatedly tried to 
contact the bank to find out the outcome of the review. 
I thought £300 was appropriate as compensation for this. 
I didnt think it would be fair to award legal fees, as it wasnt necessary to have a 
lawyer to pursue this complaint. 
I didnt uphold Mr W's other complaint points. I thought it was more likely than not 
that HSBC had sent a letter on 14 June confirming the completion of the review. And 
it wasnt HSBCs fault if Mr W hadnt received it. 
I didnt think HSBC had taken an unreasonably long time to complete its review. 
I didnt think it was HSBCs fault that it was so long before the trustee learned the 
outcome of the review. 
Mr W didnt wish to make any comments in response to my provisional decision. HSBC 
responded to say that it thought the compensation was a little excessive. It didnt give any 
reasons. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of any new arguments from either side, I havent 
changed my provisional view. So Im going to uphold this complaint in part.
It is still my view that HSBC shouldnt have sent the letter of 20 May saying Ds account 
would be closed. The bank had had all the information it had asked for for some time at this 
point, and hadnt come back with any supplemental questions. Ds account was an active 
one, used for regular transactions, particularly the receipt of rent. I think that by sending this 
letter, HSBC caused the trustee unnecessary worry and inconvenience. 
Ive thought again about the right level of compensation for the impact of the 20 May letter. I 
still dont think it would be fair to direct HSBC to cover Ds legal fees, since I dont think it 
was necessary to incur these to bring the complaint. Putting things right
I know HSBC thinks £300 is excessive. But Ive concluded its still the correct figure for 
compensation in this particular case. I say this because, while some trusts might have 
inactive bank accounts, Ds as Ive said was used regularly to receive rent on a portfolio of 
properties. In my view, this means that the prospect of having to open a new bank account 
and then inform all the tenants, was particularly distressing, and was likely to cause material 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank plc to pay 
Mr W £300 as compensation for the trouble and distress caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman