DRN-2480603
The complaint
Mr R complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund him for a £500 cash 
withdrawal which he said he didnt make.
What happened
On 14 May 2020, Mr R and his wife went to a Barclays branch. Mr R wanted to withdraw 
£500, but he said that on the first attempt, the machine returned his card but didnt dispense 
the cash. He tried again, and this time £500 was successfully dispensed. This took place 
during Covid restrictions, and Barclays wasnt allowing two people together to join the queue 
to go inside the branch. Mr Rs wife needed to pay in a cheque, so she joined a long queue 
to go into the branch while Mr R waited outside.
When Mr R received his statement, he saw that two £500 payments had been debited to his 
account. One was at the outside cash machine at 10.20 am, and the other at an ASD 
machine inside the branch at 10.28 am. 
Mr R complained to Barclays. He said he still had his card, and no-one else knew his PIN. 
He asked Barclays for CCTV for the transaction inside the branch, which he said would 
prove he hadnt made it. Barclays didnt uphold his complaint, so Mr R contacted this 
service.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. She said that Barclays had provided 
evidence that there had only been one withdrawal at the cash machine outside the branch. 
Shed seen no evidence that there was any cash left in whats called the purge bin of the 
cash machine. And Barclays had told her that the ASD machine inside the branch had an 
extra layer of security, so Mr Rs date of birth had had to be entered. The investigator said 
that as the genuine card, PIN, and Mr Rs date of birth had been entered, she thought it was 
most likely that Mr R had carried out both withdrawals himself.
Mr R didnt agree. He raised a number of points. In summary, he went over what he said had 
happened at the cash machine, and he said he was beginning to believe that someone 
inside the branch had seized the opportunity to block the first transaction and use the bank 
details to gain access to his account for the other £500. He said he couldnt have entered the 
branch at the time of the second transaction because of the long queue. Mr R asked for an 
ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CCTV isnt available, but in many cases it doesnt show definitely what happened. So Ive 
considered the other evidence in reaching my decision.
I recognise that Mr R feels very strongly about what happened, which I can understand. 
First, Ive looked carefully at the computerised evidence about the two £500 debits to Mr Rs 
account.
The computerised transaction evidence for the first £500 withdrawal at the outside cash 
machine is clear. It took place at 10.20am, and the correct PIN was entered. Mr R says he 
didnt receive the money at the first attempt. I dont know why that was, but its not relevant 
to the outcome here. Mr R and Barclays agree that Mr R withdrew £500 at the outside cash 
machine. Mr Rs account was correctly debited with one £500 debit, for his withdrawal at the 
outside cash machine. 
The disputed withdrawal is the £500 withdrawn from the ASD machine inside the branch, so 
Ive looked particularly closely at this. The computer evidence for that machine is recorded 
on a separate computer system, and the information is recorded in a different way. Theres 
an entry at 10:26 which shows Mr Rs card number with a label ID&V/Enq which means his 
debit card was entered and successfully identified. The next entry is at 10:28 and has a label 
Withdrawal. The relevant numbers for this entry show Mr Rs sort code and his account 
number.
Ive also checked the debit figure recorded. For the10:26 identification entry, there are just 
zeros, as would be expected for the authentication check. For the 10:28 withdrawal, there 
are numbers for £500.00. This also tallies with other figures on the spreadsheet for the 
money held in the machine before and after the 10:28 withdrawal.
So the evidence shows that a £500 withdrawal inside the branch was carried out using Mr 
Rs card which had been correctly authenticated using his PIN and date of birth.
Mr R didnt lose his card. I dont see how any fraudster could have stolen his card, known his 
correct PIN and date of birth to enter than on the ASD, and then returned the card without Mr 
Rs knowledge. Any fraudster would also have been likely to have kept the card to try and 
get more money from the account  and there were no other attempts. So I consider its 
more likely than not that Mr R, or his wife with his permission, withdrew the money inside the 
branch, as well as the undisputed withdrawal at the outside cash machine.
I recognise that Mr R has said he believes a dishonest member of staff somehow 
manipulated Barclays cash machine so his outside cash machine attempt was moved to the 
machine inside the bank. Im not a computer expert, but I consider this is very unlikely. Mr R 
still had his card. There was no link between the two machines. And as Ive discovered from 
closely examining the evidence, the two computer systems used by the outside and inside 
machines were completely different. So I think that technically this wouldnt have been 
possible.
Both sides agree that at this time the branch was very busy with long queues because of 
Covid restrictions. So even if it had been technically possible for a dishonest employee to 
carry out such a fraud, and without Mr Rs card, its highly improbable that theyd have had 
the opportunity to leave their duties in order to carry it out. And any such activity would have 
been observed by people in the long queue. So I consider fraud by branch staff is unlikely.
Mr R told us that he didnt go into the branch at all, and said that the 30 minute queues 
meant he wouldnt have been able to get to a machine between 6 and 8 minutes after the 
outside cash withdrawal. But Barclays told us that at this difficult time, anyone who entered 
the branch just wanting to use an ASD was shown to a separate shorter queue. Anyone 
needing something else would then have to wait in the longer queue. I consider its possible 
that Mr R might have forgotten the transaction, or his wife might have withdrawn money for 
him with his card and with his permission. Either of them would have been able to join the short queue for the ASD, before Mrs R joined the longer queue for her own cashier 
transaction which was completed at 10:55. 
Taking all these factors into account, I cant see any explanation for the ASD withdrawal 
which used Mr Rs genuine card and security details, other than that Mr R, or his wife with 
his permission, carried it out. So I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman