DRN-2857245
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as RSA 
declined a claim under their home insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
In December 2020 Mrs B and Mr B made a claim to RSA for storm damage after a serious 
leak was discovered in their flat roof.
RSA sent an assessor to inspect the damage. The assessor took photos from ground level 
outside the building using an extendable pole.
The assessor said the flat roof covering was intact and hadnt come loose. RSA declined the 
claim. It said the flat roof had been gradually deteriorating and hadnt suffered storm 
damage.
Mr B pointed out that the flat roof had been completely resurfaced four years previously with 
a rubberised liquid sealant and new gravel. He didnt think it was fair to say that the roof was 
suffering from wear and tear. He also didnt think RSAs assessor had carried out a thorough 
inspection.
Mrs B and Mr B brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator thought the 
assessor had given RSA enough evidence to make a decision on the claim. He also thought 
RSA had reached the right decision on the claim. 
As Mrs B and Mr B didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular Ive taken into account a letter from Mr B to this service dated 21 June 2021.
When considering a storm complaint, I generally take into consideration the following 
questions:
were there storm conditions on or around the date the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage claimed for consistent with the storm damage?
were the prevailing storm conditions the main cause of the problem?
If the answer to any of these is no, the complaint is likely to fail.
RSA hasnt disputed that there were storm conditions around the time that the damage 
occurred. I understand that there were high winds in the local area around the relevant time.
Regarding the second question, its possible for a flat roof to be lifted by high winds although 
its less likely if its in good condition.
Moving onto the third question, RSA appointed an assessor to look at Mrs B and Mr Bs flat 
roof. His report said that the flat roof had perished and as a result, water has started to 
enter into the property. The felt has cracked, blistered and blown. This is a natural 
breakdown of materials and is not consistent with storm.
I havent seen any expert evidence from Mrs B and Mr B to the contrary. I think it was 
reasonable for RSA to rely on the expert opinion from its assessor. 
Ive looked at the photos and I think they support the conclusions in the report. There are 
two separate sections of flat roof at the property which are next to each other. I appreciate 
that the majority of the photos are of the other section of flat roof which isnt the subject of 
this claim and which (particularly the fascia board) appears to be in a worse condition. But I 
still think theres enough evidence in the photos to support the assessors opinion that the 
relevant part of the roof was suffering from wear and tear. I dont think Mr B has thrown 
sufficient doubt on RSAs assessors conclusions to make me think RSA should change its 
position.
Mr B has also drawn my attention to the fact that rubberised liquid sealant was applied to 
the surface of the roof about four years previously and gravel had been laid on top of it to 
act as a heat barrier which was supposed to prolong the life of the felt. He disputed RSAs 
assertion that this was merely a quick fix and pointed out that such products could be 
effective for ten years or longer. I dont know what particular product was used on the roof or 
how long it was supposed to last. But overall I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to 
place more weight on the photographic evidence of the current state of the roof than the fact 
that it had been previously repaired. 
RSAs assessors findings show that a storm wasnt the major cause of the damage to the 
roof. Further, like most policies Mrs B and Mr Bs policy excludes cover for wear and tear 
and gradual deterioration. So I think RSA treated them fairly in saying that it wouldnt cover 
this part of their claim. I realise my decision will disappoint Mrs B and Mr B. But insurance is 
meant to cover unforeseen events, not take the place of routine repair and replacement of 
flat roofs, which do have a limited lifespan compared with other types of roof.
With regards to the internal damage the assessor found light water marks on the ceiling 
underneath the flat roof in question. According to RSA Mr B advised that this damage was 
caused when theyd had a separate leak about four years ago. As this was a separate 
incident I think it was reasonable for RSA to say it wouldnt consider the internal damage as 
part of this claim.
Mrs B and Mr B think the assessor should have gone out onto the flat roof which wouldnt 
have been difficult in the case of their property. I appreciate that it might have been 
relatively easy in their case. But its not unreasonable for assessors to have to follow 
health and safety protocols. In any event the photos which he took with his pole camera 
were sufficiently detailed for RSA to make an informed, and what Im satisfied was a 
reasonable decision on the claim. So Im not persuaded they were prejudiced by the 
manner in which the assessment was carried out.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman