DRN-4512321
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy a claim made under their home emergency cover was declined
by Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV).
Where Ive referred to LV throughout, this also includes any actions taken by agents acting
on LVs behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have a home insurance policy underwritten by LV which covers their buildings
and contents, this also has additional cover for home emergencies.
In May 2023 Mr and Mrs B contacted LV to make a home emergency claim for a blocked
toilet, and LV appointed an engineer to attend.
The engineer concluded that the blockage was due to scale, they said this was a
maintenance issue, not covered and the claim was declined. Ultimately Mr and Mrs B
arranged for their own plumber to attend, and they located and cleared the blockage.
However, they said this wasnt due to scale as LVs engineer had said, and instead was a
blockage of toilet paper. Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with LVs handling and decline of their
claim. They say that if LVs engineer had investigated properly, they would have discovered
the blockage wasnt due to scale and should have been covered under their policy.
Mr and Mrs B approached this service. Theyve asked for LV to cover the cost of their
plumber, damage to their kitchen ceiling, and theyve asked for compensation.
One of our investigators looked into things but she didnt uphold the complaint. She initially
said she had only seen LVs contractors report which said scale was the cause and a
maintenance issue and therefore not covered. So, she said LV hadnt acted unfairly by
declining the claim.
Mr and Mrs B subsequently provided a report from their plumber. Our investigator didnt
make any findings on this, and instead passed it to LV for comment. LV maintained the claim
decision.
The case was subsequently passed to me to decide.
I considered the report from Mr and Mrs Bs plumber and issued a provisional decision to 
give both parties an opportunity to comment on my provisional findings before I reached my 
final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision. As mentioned above, our investigator didnt make 
any findings on Mr and Mrs Bs plumbers report or say whether LV was still acting 
fairly based on this. Instead, they simply passed this to LV for comment and they 
maintained the claim decision, and the case was then passed to me as an 
ombudsman to decide. Im issuing a provisional decision to give both parties an 
opportunity to comment on my findings before I reach my final decision.
Mr and Mrs Bs home emergency policy provides up to £1,000 in cover for home
emergencies, such as blocked pipes. So, when their toilet was blocked, they reported 
this to LV.
An engineer attended and said scale was causing the blockage, and this was a 
maintenance issue and not covered under the policy. However, Mr and Mrs B say the 
agent didnt carry out a thorough inspection, and instead just carried out a cursory 
inspection with a camera.
The evidence to support LVs engineers findings is very limited. There are no images 
of what they said was a scale blockage as the images taken were poor.
However, after the claim was declined by LV, Mr and Mrs B arranged for their own 
plumber to attend and clear the blockage. Their report has since been shared with LV 
for comment. Mr and Mrs Bs plumber confirmed:
I attended the above address of (Mr and Mrs B), after they reported a 
blockage in the upstairs toilet. Upon arrival, I removed the rodding access 
point and attempted to clear the blockage. After a very short period of time, it 
was apparent that to enable better access, the toilet needed removing.
Once I removed the toilet and a small section of the floor, I could see there 
was a plug, blanking off a branch on a tee fitting. Once removed the blockage 
was immediately visible, it consisted of a considerable amount of toilet paper, 
not scale which had been previously reported by a third party.
On this type of domestic drainage system, I have never seen or experienced 
scale within the pipework.
Following removal of the paper blockage and toilet reinstatement, there has 
been no further issue reported.
When this report was sent to LV by our investigator, LV maintained the claim 
decision. They said that the report is recent, doesnt say when they attended, and 
this could have been another blockage. LV didnt think this provided any proof this 
was the cause.
I must say I find LVs comments here surprising. There has been nothing provided 
which persuades me this is from another blockage and not the one subject to this 
claim and complaint. Mr and Mrs B obtained this report in order to support their 
position of what their engineer did to resolve the blockage retrospectively, when 
asked to, and after our investigator didnt uphold their complaint and said theyd need 
to obtain their own report. So, it isnt surprising its dated more recently, two days 
after our investigator issued their findings saying they needed a report.Having considered what the report says, I think this supports what Mr and Mrs B 
have said, that LVs engineer didnt carry out a sufficient investigation into the 
blockage. And what their plumber discovered isnt routine maintenance. Instead, it is 
something which should have been covered under their home emergency policy in 
the first place, if LVs engineer had carried out a thorough investigation at the time to 
establish the cause of the blockage.
So, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional decision, 
Ill be directing LV to reimburse Mr and Mrs Bs plumber costs, subject to the policy 
limit and an invoice being provided to evidence the costs they incurred. 8% simple 
interest would also need to be added to this reimbursement from date of payment of 
the invoice to date of reimbursement.
Furthermore, unless anything changes, Ill also be directing LV to pay Mr and Mrs B 
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by declining the claim 
and not providing emergency assistance when needed to unblock their toilet, leaving 
Mr and Mrs B with an unusable toilet until they arranged for their own plumber.
Mr and Mrs B have also reported there was damage caused to their kitchen ceiling 
and provided an image in support of that. Mr and Mrs B have said that if LV had 
correctly identified and unblocked the leak when they attended, the damage wouldnt 
have occurred. However, its unclear how or when the damage happened based on 
the limited information provided.
Therefore, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional 
decision, Ill be directing LV to assess whether the damage wouldnt have been 
caused if theyd correctly identified and unblocked the toilet on that first visit, and if 
so, theyll need to cover the cost in putting that right.
However, if LV is able to evidence that the damage wasnt caused by their failure to 
identify and resolve the blockage, then theyd need to consider whether there is any 
cover under Mr and Mrs Bs home insurance policy. The buildings section of cover 
does in principle provide cover for damage caused by an escape of water, but the 
policy also has terms and conditions, limits, and an excess applicable which it would 
need to be considered against.
As neither point has been considered yet, Im unable to reach a decision on whether 
the damage is the fault of LV, or if not, whether the home insurance policy will cover 
it. So, thats why Ill be directing LV to assess this damage under both of these 
points. If after doing so Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with whatever decision is 
ultimately reached by LV, theyd be free to make a new separate complaint about 
that.So, I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct LV to:
Reimburse Mr and Mrs Bs plumbers costs, subject to the policy limits and evidence 
of the costs they incurred.
Add 8% simple interest to the reimbursement, from date of payment of the invoice to 
date of settlement.
Assess whether the additional damage was caused as a result of their failure to 
identify and unblock the toilet, and if so, put that right. Or if not as a result, assess 
whether it is covered under Mr and Mrs Bs insurance policy subject to the remaining 
policy terms.
Pay Mr and Mrs B £150 compensation.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs B responded to the provisional decision to say they agreed with the points made. 
They said the damage to the ceiling is directly below where the blocked pipe was. They say 
its hard to prove when this happened, but they did contact LV at the time.
Additionally, Mr and Mrs B said theyd like at least double the compensation as LV didnt act 
in accordance with the policy they pay for, communication was poor, and they were left with 
an unusable toilet.
LV responded and said the report from the plumber doesnt say when they attended so they 
are unable to substantiate when it happened, and they said the ombudsman should ask for 
the invoice and confirmation when they attended.
LV also said the plumber carried out trace and access to diagnose the issue and the policy 
doesnt cover this. So, they say it isnt fair to expect the engineer to have reached the same 
conclusion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional decision I reached and the responses to it. 
Having done so, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision.
LV has said that Mr and Mrs Bs plumber carried out trace and access and this isnt covered 
so it isnt fair to say their engineer should have reached the same conclusion. However, the 
policy covers emergency assistance where there is a failure of the internal plumbing and 
drainage and doesnt specifically say under that section that finding a blockage is excluded. 
Instead, the policy terms say that trace and access comes under home maintenance, and 
finding the fault after a temporary repair has been completed, which isnt the case here. But 
in any event, I can direct LV to pay something outside of the policy terms if I decide it is fair 
and reasonable to in all the circumstances of the case
LVs contractor failed to correctly identify the blockage and put it down to scale. But as 
outlined, the evidence to support LVs engineers findings is very limited. There are no clear 
images of what they said was a scale issue as the images taken were poor. So, I dont think 
they carried out a sufficient investigation into determining the cause of blockage in the first 
place. By contrast, Mr and Mrs Bs plumber identified there was a blockage immediately, 
rather than a scale issue which would be home maintenance, and then removed the toilet 
and flooring in order for better access and to clear it. My view remains that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case for 
LV to reimburse Mr and Mrs B plumbers costs, subject to the policy limits and an invoice 
being provided to demonstrate the costs they incurred. 8% simple interest will also need to 
be added to the reimbursement from date of payment of the invoice to date of settlement.
LV has also said Mr and Mrs Bs plumber report doesnt say when they attended and 
confirmation of this and an invoice should be obtained. I explained in my provisional decision 
why the report was recently dated, and there was nothing provided which led me to conclude 
there was a separate blockage that it related to. The report was dated after our investigator 
asked Mr and Mrs B to obtain one. I dont have any concerns with the validity of the report or 
that this doesnt relate to the same blockage which is the subject of this complaint, and Im 
satisfied it is persuasive in demonstrating LV reached the wrong conclusion when they 
visited. So, my final decision remains that Ill be directing LV to reimburse Mr and Mrs Bs 
plumber costs as explained above.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs B say the damage to their ceiling is 
below where the blocked pipe was. And they previously provided an image in support of that. 
But as outlined in my provisional decision, its unclear how the damage would have occurred 
if the pipe was blocked. So, Ill be directing LV to assess whether this damage wouldnt have 
been caused if theyd correctly identified and unblocked the toilet on that first visit, and if so, 
theyll need to cover the cost of putting that right.
But I also said that if LV is able to evidence that the damage wasnt caused by their failure to 
identify and resolve the blockage, then theyd need to consider whether there is any cover 
under the building and contents insurance cover Mr and Mrs B have.
As outlined, as neither point has been considered yet, Im unable to reach a decision on 
whether the damage is or isnt the fault of LV, and if not, whether that damage is covered 
under their home insurance. So, at this stage, Ill be directing LV to assess it under both 
points. If after that Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with whatever decision is ultimately reached 
by LV, theyd be free to raise a new separate complaint about that.
I recognise Mr and Mrs B believe the compensation should be higher, but having considered 
everything provided, Im satisfied £150 compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, so I wont be increasing that amount.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited:
Reimburse Mr and Mrs Bs plumbers costs, subject to the policy limits and evidence 
of the costs they incurred.
Add 8% simple interest* to the reimbursement, from date of payment of the invoice to 
date of settlement.
Assess whether the additional damage was caused as a result of their failure to 
identify and unblock the toilet, and if so, put that right. Or if not as a result, assess 
whether it is covered under Mr and Mrs Bs insurance policy subject to the remaining 
policy terms.
Pay Mr and Mrs B £150 compensation.*If Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman