DRN-4020629
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the service received from Marshmallow Financial Services Ltd 
(Marshmallow) when requesting proof of her no claims discount and incorrectly recording a 
claim on her car insurance. She also complains about their service which led to her policy 
being cancelled.   
What happened
Mrs R took out an insurance policy through Marshmallow, which was paid through a finance 
arrangement. Marshmallow requested documents from Mrs R which included proof of her 
no-claims discount (NCD). Mrs R says she was abroad at the time so she couldnt send the 
NCD until she returned. Mrs R says she isnt computer literate and also registered disabled 
so she asked for a paper copy of her insurance documents and was informed this would be 
sent. Mrs R says, while she was still abroad, she received a threatening email about her 
NCD. And then, despite agreeing an extension of time to provide her NCD, Marshmallow 
took steps for the NCD entitlement to be removed which led to Mrs R owing an additional 
premium. So, Mrs R raised a complaint about these points. 
Marshmallow responded and explained, while theyre able to verify some information using 
central databases, they do need to obtain certain documents from a customer to validate the 
information given to them. They explained this was the case for the NCD. Marshmallow 
accepted theyd made an error in applying the mid-term adjustment, by removing the NCD 
entitlement, prior to the extended deadline they agreed with Mrs R. Marshmallow said theyd 
now received proof of the NCD and agreed to reinstate this  but they couldnt do this at the 
time as there was an open claim recorded against Mrs Rs policy. They said they would 
contact Mrs R once the claim has settled to review the cost of the policy. 
Marshmallow acknowledged Mrs Rs concern about not receiving her policy documents 
through the post. They explained theyre an entirely web-based company and they rely on 
digital processes rather than posting documents. They said the documents can be 
downloaded by customers in a printable format. Marshmallow said they do offer the facility to 
print and send documents by post but theres a £10 fee for this. Marshmallow said they 
could see Mrs R asked for this but was given conflicting information. Marshmallow 
apologised and offered to send the policy documents by post with the £10 fee waived. 
Marshmallow also offered a £15 gift voucher for the stress and frustration caused to Mrs R.      
  
Mrs R remained unhappy with Marshmallows response, so she referred her complaint to our 
service. 
During our investigation, Marshmallow reinstated the NCD which led to a discount on Mrs 
Rs premium. They used this refund to pay off the finance and sent the remainder to Mrs R. 
Marshmallow then claimed there were payment arrears and took steps which led to the 
cancellation of Mrs Rs policy. Mrs R raised a complaint about this, and Marshmallow 
accepted this was an error as their system showed the finance had been paid in full. 
Marshmallow apologised and acknowledged Mrs R had been left without insurance and 
offered to refund the £50 cancellation fee as well as £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. Marshmallow said they understand Mrs R says she had to take taxis 
and buses due to the policy cancellation and said they would look to reimburse these 
expenses if Mrs R can provide receipts. Mrs R asked for this to be reviewed and 
Marshmallow responded and offered to increase the compensation to £300.    
 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs R. She agreed there had been errors by 
Marshmallow and recommended the offer made by them was reasonable. Mrs R disagreed 
so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mrs R will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. The key facts about a number of the complaint points arent in dispute. 
Marshmallow have admitted they got things wrong when they applied the mid-term 
adjustment prematurely and gave conflicting information about sending documents by post. 
They also accept they made an error in applying a claim against Mrs Rs policy and also 
taking steps which led to the cancellation of her policy. The only issue I have to decide is 
whether their offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I think its right that Marshmallow should compensate Mrs R for the upset, frustration and 
inconvenience caused by their poor service. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level 
of compensation should be, Ive looked at the errors by Marshmallow and what the impact of 
those errors have been. 
I can see there were emails exchanged between Mrs R and Marshmallow in September and 
October 2021 relating to proof of her NCD. I acknowledge Mrs R feels Marshmallow 
shouldve been able to obtain any required information from central databases but I dont 
think its unreasonable for a broker to ask a customer for information which they might not be 
able to validate from any internal or external databases. I can see Mrs R did send 
information to Marshmallow, but it doesnt appear this was in the correct format, for example, 
on one occasion Marshmallow email Mrs R to say the information is out of date. 
Marshmallow have made an error here though as the email exchanges show Mrs R 
explained she was abroad and that she would be returning on 29 October. Marshmallow 
agreed to an extension of time until 29 October for Mrs R to provide the proof of NCD but 
took steps to remove Mrs Rs NCD, by way of a mid-term adjustment, a week before the 
agreed extension date. This led to an increase in premium  which was spread across the 
remaining monthly instalments owed by Mrs R. 
If a broker doesnt receive any requested evidence, I dont think its unreasonable for them to 
take any steps which might lead to a mid-term adjustment and increased premium being 
applied by an insurer. But, in the circumstances of this case, I think it was unreasonable for 
Marshmallow to have taken steps which led to Mrs Rs NCD entitlement being removed prior 
to the agreed deadline date for her to provide proof. This is particularly the case as they 
were aware Mrs R was still abroad at the time and didnt have access to the documents 
required. I acknowledge Marshmallow say they applied the mid-term adjustment 42 days 
after their first request for proof of the NCD even though their normal timeframe is 21 days. But its clear they agreed an extension of time but then didnt adhere to this  and this 
caused upset and frustration to Mrs R.  
I think it was also unreasonable for Marshmallow to have only given a deadline date of 29 
October  knowing this is the date of Mrs Rs return. I think they couldve asked questions to 
help understand what time Mrs R would be returning in order to assess whether it would be 
possible for her to find and send the necessary proof. I acknowledge the NCD proof wasnt 
sent to Marshmallow in their required format until after this date but there was still worry and 
frustration caused to Mrs R knowing she had a very small timeframe on her return to get the 
NCD proof to Marshmallow. I can see Marshmallow did reinstate the NCD once they 
received the proof and this led to a reduction in the premium which was used to pay off the 
remaining finance and the remainder sent to Mrs R. So, beyond the worry and frustration to 
Mrs R, I cant say there were any other losses.  
Marshmallow acknowledge Mrs Rs concern about not receiving her policy documents 
through the post. I acknowledge Marshmallows processes are aligned to them being a web-
based company, but they do offer the facility to post documents subject to a fee. The 
information Ive seen shows Mrs R requested the policy documents by post and 
Marshmallow say she was given conflicting information. Marshmallow have apologised and 
offered to send the policy documents by post with the £10 fee waived. Marshmallow also 
offered a £15 gift voucher for the stress and frustration caused to Mrs R. Taking into account 
the impact of this on Mrs R, I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.             
I can see, once Marshmallow received the proof of NCD, they didnt use it to reinstate the 
NCD until around four months later. Marshmallow say this was down to a technical error 
where an open claim was mistakenly added to Mrs Rs policy. Marshmallow say their system 
wont allow them to make any amendments to the NCD while theres an open claim. Once 
this was resolved, the NCD was reinstated and this led to a decrease in the premium. I 
acknowledge this led to confusion for Mrs R as the exchange in emails between her and 
Marshmallow show she was worried about why a claim was showing on her policy. 
Marshmallow accept they made an error in taking steps which led to the cancellation of    
Mrs Rs policy. Marshmallow say their system showed the finance had been paid in full but, 
by error, Mrs Rs finance agreement appeared on a report suggesting there were payment 
arrears. This led to the policy being cancelled and Mrs R was refunded £68.24 for the 
unused premium minus their £50 cancellation fee. Marshmallow have apologised and 
acknowledged Mrs R had been left without insurance and offered to refund the £50 
cancellation fee as well as £300 compensation for the inconvenience caused. Marshmallow 
have also offered to reimburse any taxi and bus expenses incurred by Mrs R, due to the 
policy cancellation, if Mrs R can provide receipts. They also confirmed theyd recorded the 
cancellation as a customer cancellation. 
Mrs R says this caused her upset and frustration particularly as she had been assured by 
Marshmallow that no payments were due on her finance. The policy appears to have been 
cancelled around three weeks before it was due to end. So, while this impacted Mrs R for a 
relatively short period of time, I accept it caused inconvenience to Mrs R in not being able to 
use her car and having to rely on other means of transport. 
Taking this all into account, I think Marshmallows offer of compensation is fair and 
reasonable together with their offer to reimburse Mrs R any transport expenses incurred as a 
result of their error, if Mrs R provides receipts.   
I can see Mrs R raises a concern about having to repair her windscreen which she says 
broke before her policy was cancelled. I cant see Mrs R has raised a claim about this, but I 
would encourage Mrs R to take this step first to see whether this would be covered. Our 
service isnt able to consider a complaint about this until Mrs R has made a claim and, if necessary, raised a complaint and allowed either Marshmallow or the insurer an opportunity 
to address her complaint.  
Taking into account the overall impact on Mrs R as a result of Marshmallows errors, I think 
the steps theyve offered to put things right are fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Marshmallow have made errors in applying the mid-term adjustment 
prematurely and giving conflicting information about sending documents by post. They also 
accept they made an error in applying a claim against Mrs Rs policy and also taking steps 
which led to the cancellation of her policy. So, Marshmallow should provide Mrs R with her 
policy documents by post without charge, if they havent done so already. They should also 
send the gift voucher, if they havent done so already. Marshmallow should also refund the 
£50 cancellation fee and pay Mrs R £300 compensation, if they havent done so already. 
Marshmallow should also reimburse Mrs R any transport expenses incurred as a result of 
the policy cancellation, if Mrs R provides receipts.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Marshmallow Financial Services Ltd must 
take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman