DRN-3710798
The complaint
Mr D and Ms R complained about Society of Lloyd's. They arent happy about the way it 
settled a claim under their home insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to Lloyds includes the actions of its agents which it is 
responsible for.
What happened
Mr D and Ms R had a flood at their home address and made a claim under their home 
insurance policy. Lloyds looked into the claim for them and once the property dried out 
undertook repairs. And Mr D and Ms R advanced a separate claim and complaint in relation 
to their building warranty provider which is being considered separately. As they werent 
happy about the way Lloyds dealt with their claim they complained to Lloyds and then this 
Service.
Lloyds acknowledged that it couldve dealt with things better for Mr D and Ms R. And offered 
£1,500 by way of compensation for the delay in dealing with the original claim and not clearly 
communicating that its repairs were a temporary measure. And that it wasnt responsible for 
the cause of the claim which lay with the warranty provider more clearly. But Mr D and Ms R 
remained unhappy and so complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for them and partly upheld their complaint. He thought 
Lloyds offer of £1,500 compensation was fair in acknowledgement of its delay and poor 
communication. He thought it was clear that the repairs wouldnt have been completed under 
the building warranty by the time of the second flood even if the matter was referred earlier. 
However, he thought Lloyds should pay the cost of any damaged flooring caused by the 
second flood if Mr D and Ms R provided evidence that any additional damage caused isnt 
being covered by the warranty.
Lloyds accepted the position outlined by the investigator, but Mr D and Ms R didnt. They 
maintained they were told that the repairs Lloyds undertook would be lasting. So, the matter 
has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr D and Ms Rs frustration with how things were explained to them and 
the clear stress the flood claim caused them. But I have to be fair to both sides when I 
consider complaints and although I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr D and Ms 
R, I think Lloyds offer of £1,500 compensation feels fair in addition to the steps outlined by 
our investigator. Ill explain why.
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
I know Mr D and Ms R feel Lloyds initial repairs were meant to be a permanent repair in 
relation to the original flood. And that they would have taken additional steps which they feel 
would have prevented the second flood if they were aware of this. But I agree with our 
investigator that, even if this was the case, the original flood repairs wouldnt have been 
completed by the time of the second flood by the warranty provider. I say this as it is clear 
the warranty claim has taken a long time to be considered and so I agree, on balance, that it 
is unlikely to have been dealt with in time. So, even though it must have been very stressful 
for Mr D and Ms R to face the second flood I cant hold Lloyds responsible for any failings by 
the warranty provider or the issues caused by the second flood no matter how stressful this 
was. 
In relation to the claim Lloyds accepts it shouldnt have started completing the repairs in 
relation to the damaged flooring until the issues stemming from the warranty which caused 
the problem were fixed. Mr D and Ms R accept the building warranty provider is responsible 
for the problems they faced with the flood (and this is being advanced separately) and 
Lloyds declined this part of the claim because this specific cover was in place. So, if there is 
any further problem with the flooring that was replaced, and the warranty provider doesnt 
cover it, I agree it would be fair for Lloyds to pay for this.
Given all of this, and despite my natural sympathy for the position Mr D and Ms R found 
themselves after the floods at their property, I think Lloyds offer of £1,500 compensation in 
acknowledgement of its delay in dealing with the claim and not explaining things more 
clearly seems fair.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I agree Society of Lloyd's should pay £1,500 in 
compensation. And it should cover the cost of any flooring damaged by the second flood if it 
isnt covered by any other insurer. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman