DRN-3990856
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Creation Financial Services Limited closed her account without a 
reason. She would like to know the reason. She is unhappy the closure has affected her 
credit rating.
What happened
Mrs P had an account with Creation. On 20 January 2022 Creation closed her account with 
immediate effect.
Mrs P had told us that her card was declined when she went shopping with her husband. 
She said she felt embarrassed by this. Mrs P also said that her credit rating had deteriorated 
due to the closure of her credit card account.  She feels her honesty and integrity is being 
called into question.
Mrs P complained to Creation. It said that they were entitled to close her account- they had 
relied on Clause 12 of the terms and conditions. And they were not obliged to give her 
further reasons.
Mrs P complained to our service. One of the investigators looked into the complaint she said 
from the information provided she couldnt conclude that Creation had acted fairly in closing 
the account.
Creation was unhappy with the view. As there was no agreement the matter has come to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
I can see that Creation reviewed and closed Mrs Ps account with no notice on 20 January 
2023.
Its generally for financial institutions to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to 
continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a financial institution must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Financial institutions should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. 
Usually that means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. In 
this case Creation gave Mrs P immediate notice.
In order for me to be satisfied that Creations actions in closing the account with immediate 
effect were appropriate in the circumstances, I reviewed the information they provided to us 
to support the actions they took in respect of Mrs Ps account. What they have provided to 
this service isnt sufficient for me to conclude that the account was fairly closed with 
immediate effect.
From my review Im unable to conclude that Creation acted fairly in closing the account with 
immediate effect.
Regarding the impact that the immediate closure had on Mrs P she has told us about the 
inconvenience this caused and the embarrassment she experienced and how she feels. 
Because of this Im satisfied that Creation should pay Mrs P the sum of £100. 
Reasons 
Mrs P has said she wants to know the reason why Creation reviewed and closed her 
account. And to provide the information it relied on. Creation doesnt disclose to its 
customers what triggers a review of their accounts and its under no obligation to tell Mrs P 
the reasons behind the account block and closure, as much as shed like to know. So, I cant 
say its done anything wrong by not giving Mrs P this information. 
Credit rating
Mrs P has said the closure of the account has affected her credit rating and she has 
confirmed that shes suffered no financial detriment due to it. I appreciate her rating will have 
been affected but as Ive seen no evidence that this has had any impact on Mrs P I wont be 
asking Creation to compensate her. 
Putting things right
For the reasons stated above I require Creation to pay Mrs P £100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I require Creation Financial Services Limited to pay Mrs P 
£100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman