DRN-4180151
The complaint
Mr B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd added a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud database, 
when it closed his account.
What happened
Mr B says he has been the victim with his account being taken over. He says he wasnt 
involved in receiving any fraudulent funds and the marker was added unfairly. This is 
affecting his ability to access other financial products.
Monzo Bank said it hadnt made any mistake. It had received reports that money paid into 
Mr Bs account in January 2022 was obtained fraudulently. And it had decided to close the 
account and add the marker. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr B had told her that hed 
seen a payment into his account of £800 and he had no knowledge of the source. And that 
hed told Monzo Bank this and that his account had been used by someone else. He also 
said that hed lost his wallet which had his account card, driving licence and a card for 
another bank about four days earlier. He hadnt realised thinking this was in his room and 
had made card payments using his phone. 
She had listened to calls Mr B had with Monzo Bank about the account and the remaining 
balance. On 11 January 2022 hed requested that the remaining funds (of £791.80) be sent 
to his account at another bank. But this was the remainder of the funds Mr B had said he 
didnt recognise. He further called on 18 January 2022 saying that not having this money 
was causing him emotional trauma and he wanted reimbursement. Hed said that the money 
had been sent to him on his behalf. But that was inconsistent with him saying that this wasnt 
his money. There was no evidence of any other payments into the account, for example his 
salary, that could be his. And he did have another account to receive those payments. Shed 
discussed what happened with him and had asked him to provide any more information 
including about his own phone and the IP address hed been using.
Mr B didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that he thought that his 
salary had been mixed up with these payments and thats why hed mentioned the money to 
Monzo Bank. He had given the IMEI number already for his phone. And he didnt think that 
his side of the story had been listened to. Other funds in his account were legitimate. He 
thought that what hed said to Monzo Bank had been taken out of context.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Monzo Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted. The evidence must 
be clear, relevant and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention.
Monzo Bank has provided recordings of its calls with Mr B about the account. As our 
adjudicator says he asked for the remaining money in the account on 11 January 2022, 
when he knew it was being closed. He called again about this on 13 January 2022. And also, 
on 18 January 2022 when he said that this was money he needed to go to work, and that 
Monzo Bank was supposed to refund this. I didnt hear him say that any money in the 
account wasnt his.
Ive looked at the statement for the account with the first entry on 30 December 2021. Mr B 
was transferring small amounts into the account. There is no evidence of any salary or other 
payment. The credit of £800 and another payment reported as fraudulent for £300, which our 
adjudicator mentioned to Mr B too were both received on 9 January 2022. The £300 was 
transferred out. And only part of the £800 used before the account was blocked. Mr B 
discussed with our adjudicator having himself used the account on 8 January 2022 and 
making small transfers from an account at another financial business on 8 and 9 January 
2022.
Mr B says his account was taken over and used by someone else. I appreciate he says he 
lost his card which had his account number on it. But that doesnt explain how someone 
would also have the security information needed to access the account so that any money 
could be transferred on. Our adjudicator asked Mr B for his own IP address and phone 
details to compare to the records from Monzo Bank. He hasnt provided all of that. But Id still 
need to think about how it was possible for a device other than his to be used and whether 
say hed allowed this to happen. His explanation isnt for example that someone tricked him 
into getting access.
Ive taken into account everything that has been provided. I note in particular the lack of 
evidence to support his account being taken over. And also, that he seemed to want to 
receive the remaining funds when the account was to be closed. I consider it most likely     
Mr B was complicit in what happened. And that as a result it was reasonable for Monzo Bank 
to apply the marker. 
Monzo Bank says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr B received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Ive looked at whether Monzo Bank was fair to apply the marker, based 
on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. Having reviewed Mr Bs account of events and the evidence he has provided, Im satisfied 
that Monzo Bank had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to 
this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr B received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Monzo Bank 
at the time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Monzo Bank had grounds to believe that Mr B had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
As a result, I dont see it acted outside the terms and conditions in closing the account. I 
appreciate what Mr B says about the impact of the marker for him and his job but Im afraid I 
dont have a reasonable basis to require Monzo Bank to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman