DRN-3969465
The complaint
Mr O, through his representative, complains that Shelby Finance Ltd, trading as Dot Dot 
Loans (Shelby), lent to him irresponsibly. Mr O says that his credit file and earlier lending 
history ought to have demonstrated to Shelby he could not afford this loan. 
What happened
Mr O took one loan with Shelby. It was for £750 on 22 December 2019 and was due to be 
repaid over nine months at just over £157 a month. No payments of that amount went 
through successfully and currently Mr O is on a repayment plan at £15 a month.
The final response letter from Shelby explained what it had done upon receiving Mr Os 
application. And it did not consider it had done anything wrong. 
Mr Os representative referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
adjudicators looked at the complaint. He did not think that Shelby needed to put things right 
for Mr O. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Shelby had to assess the lending to check if Mr O could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Shelbys checks couldve considered several different things, such as 
how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Os income and expenditure. 
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Shelby should have done more to establish 
that any lending was sustainable for Mr O. These factors include:
Mr O having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr O having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr O coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
Shelby was required to establish whether Mr O could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr O was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Os complaint.
Mr O applied for the loan and as a new customer. Thinking about the proportionate checks 
Id expect Shelby to have carried out for a relatively modest loan of £750 over 9 months, 
then I think that it would have been proportionate to have relied on the information Mr O 
gave to it. 
Mr O had said he earned £1,800 (after tax) each month and his outgoings were £1,000. 
Shelby did go a step further and carried out a verification check of his income. Based on the 
information it obtained it reduced that monthly income to £1,446 each month. Still, to Shelby 
the loan would have looked affordable. 
Mr O had told Shelby that he had no reason to expect a drop in income. But I understand 
from his representative that Mr O ceased being employed full time in October 2019 and 
worked part-time for a while in November 2019. So, Mr O is saying he was unemployed 
when he applied.
Ive thought about this carefully as I looked into how it was that Shelby had chosen to reduce 
Mr Os income after its verification. The credit reference agency (CRA) tool it used took an 
average of his earnings and this is explained by Shelby as follows. It obtained data from the 
CRA: 
which verifies the stated income against the income they hold within
their database. This income is based on a current account turnover information
across a number of months, which provides a validation against an overage
income, rather than just the latest month. This helps Dot Loans take into
consideration possible instability in an applicants income
I do not consider this an unreasonable approach and I think it was proportionate. 
Ive reviewed the credit search Shelby did and the results were duplicated in the FRL sent to 
Mr O. Those demonstrate to me that Mr O had relatively little outstanding debt at the time he 
applied. The presence of current or settled previous high-cost instalment loans or other high-
cost short term finance loans would not be something that a lender such as Shelby would 
likely have been deterred by. And I say that because lenders such as Shelby are used to 
being approached by customers where their credit history may include those sorts of loans.
What Mr Os credit search results did not show were any defaults, insolvency entries, late 
payments or other payment issues such that Shelby may have been alerted to Mr O being in 
financial trouble. So, the combination of having nothing showing on its credit search plus the 
reduction in the income figure after a reasonable check on it, leads me to conclude that 
Shelby was not likely to have formed a view that it needed to delve further into Mr Os 
financial situation. And I would not have expected it to have gone further. Mr Os representative seems to be suggesting that the presence of having had other high 
cost short term loans (of whichever kind) would be enough for a lender to decline a loan 
application. But I disagree. I consider that Shelby carried out proportionate checks and did 
not need to do more before lending.
As for the health concerns that Mr Os representative has alerted us to  I was sorry to read 
of Mr Os troubles in or around December 2019 and which may be continuing. Mr Os 
representative ends by saying that He took this loan  at Christmas time to provide for his 
family but was not of sound mind to do so. Hence I feel that Shelby didn't complete the 
relevant checks. Ive deleted some of the words for privacy.
On this Id refer to the FRL where Shelby has addressed the part about Mr Os mental 
health. It said: 
Shelby Finance has on obligation not to discriminate against a person on the 
grounds they may not understand the loan, as it may constitute as [sic] 
discrimination to decline on application where it is presumed a person does not have 
the capacity to make a decision, based solely on their age or a protected 
characteristic set out in the Equality Act 2010.
Individuals with any protected characteristics should not be prejudicially excluded
or restricted from opportunities available to others because of the protected
characteristic. Where a borrower is understood to have a protected characteristic; it 
must be considered they may still be able to understand a borrowing decision. There 
are no notes on your account stating you informed us of any issues
Here Shelby is applying that part of the regulatory requirements with which a lender such as 
Shelby must comply and with which I am familiar: the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), chapter 2:10 Mental Capacity Guidance. 
CONC 2.10.4 of that Guidance states:
A firm should assume a customer has mental capacity at the time the decision has to
be made, unless the firm knows, or is told by a person it reasonably believes should
know, or reasonably suspects, that the customer lacks capacity.
And the FCA Guidance lists some indicators behavioural or otherwise which,  if the lender
observes, may lead to the firm having reasonable grounds to suspect that a customer may
have some form of mental capacity limitation. These indicators are listed in CONC 2.10.8
and are a guide list. Having reviewed them I am not persuaded that any apply here. 
And I have borne in mind that if Shelby did have any grounds to suspect that a
customer may have some form of mental capacity limitation, CONC 2.10.7 guidance states:
this does not necessarily mean that the customer does not have the mental
capacity to make an informed borrowing decision.
This has been part of my consideration. And the application by Mr O contains no indication 
that he may have been suffering and may have had trouble making the decision to borrow. 
And I would not consider it reasonable to conclude that Shelby knew, or ought to have 
known, of this at the time he applied. 
Going forward then Im sure that Shelby will take the current situation into account and Id 
remind it to treat Mr O and his debt with empathy and in a positive light considering that the 
information I have seen from him dated July 2022 indicates he is on Universal Credit and owes money to others as well as Shelby. The outstanding balance on 8 July 2022 was 
£1,092 which translates to being around six years from that date to pay off the loan at that 
rate. That can be considered a burden. I mention this here as an observation and Id remind 
Shelby to consider Mr Os health going forward. 
I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman