DRN-4319019
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC suspended his account after a regular 
transaction he made was stopped. He has also complained about the service he received 
when attempting to lift the suspension.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My Provisional decision of 11 August 2023
I issued my provisional finding on 11 August 2023 which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs complaint is that Barclays stopped a regular payment he made due to the payment 
flagging on its fraud detection system. After reviewing the contact notes, I am satisfied 
Barclays had legitimate cause for concern and intervened accordingly following its usual 
process in these circumstances. In response to our investigators opinion, Mr R explained 
that while he was still frustrated the regular payment triggered its fraud detection system, he 
accepted that a bank has a duty to protect its customers and keep them from financial harm.
He said, if an account is suspended, he accepted there was a need for further identification 
checks to be completed. As such, I wont be expanding on this point any further. Instead, I 
will focus on the aspect of Mr Rs complaint he remains unhappy with.
Mr R has said, after being told he needed to visit branch to verify the account and get the 
suspension lifted, he had to attend three different branches, resulting in him having to take a 
day off work, travel costs, and causing distress and inconvenience. He says when he spoke 
to the fraud detection team, they told him to pop into branch with two forms of ID. Mr R 
says when he visited the first branch, he was told it couldnt complete the verification checks 
as they needed an advisor in branch and didnt have one. As such, he was directed to the 
next nearest branch. When he arrived at that branch, it had a power outage, so he travelled 
to a third branch where he was told he couldnt be verified without an appointment. Mr R 
says he was told to go back to that branch the following day but as he was unable to attend 
the following day he waited and eventually was seen, and the suspension was lifted.
I have reviewed the contact notes Barclays has provided. I can see it says the advisor from 
the fraud detection team said he would need to go into branch with two forms of ID which is 
consistent with Mr Rs testimony. There is no mention of Mr R having to make an 
appointment and no mention of any guidance provided on which branches may be able to 
assist with this process. Barclays hasnt provided any comment on whether it is its policy that 
an appointment needs to be made in branch in order to verify an account. However, if it is 
the policy, I would have expected the fraud detection advisor to have informed Mr R about 
this, if it isnt its policy, its reasonable to conclude that Mr R was given the wrong information 
in branch. Either way I think its reasonable to conclude the customer service provided here 
was unsatisfactory.
I have also considered that the inconvenience Mr R experienced was compounded by the 
fact the first and second branch he visited was unable to assist him. And while the power 
outage couldnt be helped, I think on both occasions more could have been done to help him 
find a branch that could assist him without causing further inconvenience.
From reading Barclays contact notes I can see that Barclays have accepted this position and 
offered Mr R £50 for the distress and inconvenience it caused. But Mr R didnt accept the 
offer. As explained above, while I accept that Mr Rs frustration and inconvenience was 
compounded by the lack of customer service provided, I also accept that we're all 
inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and a certain level of frustration and minor 
annoyance is expected. So, for me to make an award I'd need to see that the impact of a 
mistake was more than most people would expect to experience as part of everyday life. I do 
accept in this case Mr R did experience a degree of inconvenience above what ought to be 
expected. As such, I feel a further £50 bringing the total award of £100 is sufficient in 
acknowledging the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr R.
My provisional decision
My provisional finding is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to
pay £100 to Mr R for the inconvenience caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Barclays responded and said it accepted my provisional findings and Mr R didnt provide any 
further comments for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there were no further comments for me to consider and Barclays accepted my provisional 
findings, my decision remains the same as I outlined in my provisional findings.
Putting things right
I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay £100 to Mr R.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
£100 to Mr R for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman