DRN-4239146
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the handling of a legal expenses claim by Amtrust Europe Limited and 
with the service provided by a legal helpline. 
What happened
In November 2021 Mr P entered into a conditional fee agreement (CFA) with solicitors in 
relation to a dispute about a will. In early March 2022 Mr P says mediation concluded without 
an offer his solicitors could support. He says those solicitors didnt act in his best interests 
and were focussed on obtaining their own fees. Mr P renewed his home insurance and 
included legal expenses cover with effect from 14 March 2022. Subsequently he sought 
advice from the legal helpline offered by his policy. 
Mr P made a claim on the policy in October 2022 as his solicitors were pursuing him from 
their own costs. Amtrust said the claim wasnt covered because Mr P was aware of the 
circumstances which had led to it prior to taking out the policy. It didnt think there had been 
any issues with the service provided by the legal helpline and that responses to issues 
raised by Mr P had been provided within a reasonable timeframe. 
Our investigator agreed the clam had been turned down in line with the policy terms. And 
she thought Mr Ps calls to the legal helpline had been dealt with appropriately. She 
accepted he hadnt always received a call back within an hour but thought that had 
nevertheless taken place within a reasonable timeframe. She also thought that action taken 
following a call on 29 September 2022 was appropriate. And she didnt think there had been 
any significant delay by Amtrust in dealing with Mr Ps claim. 
Mr P didnt agree. He said the insured incident couldnt have taken place before he took the 
policy out because the judgement which gave rise to his claim hadnt taken place. And he 
was unhappy at being given an expectation call backs would take place within an hour when 
that didnt happen. He didnt think response times were acceptable when dealing with his 
claim and information hed already provided was requested again. He also said following the 
decline of his claim hed sought an independent review which led to his solicitors 
withdrawing their claim against him. 
He questioned why this complaint was recorded against Amtrust given his provider was 
listed as a different company (and theyd told him another company was the insurer). He 
thought those companies should be referenced in the public record of the complaint. And he 
didnt think his complaint about customer service had been considered. 
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has queried why this complaint has been logged against Amtrust. I appreciate his 
policy has a different companys brand name associated with it and the claim itself was 
handled by separate claims handlers. But its clear from his policy document that Amtrust are 
the insurer of the legal expenses element of his policy which is why the complaint has been 
set up against them. However, an insurer is responsible for the actions of its claims handlers 
and agents so any references to Amtrust includes what they did. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Amtrust has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive thought first about whether Amtrust was correct to say the claim Mr P made in October 
2022 was caught by an exclusion in his legal expenses policy. The policy sets out the 
different sections of cover that apply. I think the only one that might apply to the claim Mr P 
made is that relating to contract disputes. 
That does cover costs to pursue or defend a legal action following a breach of contract you 
have forbuying or renting goods or services for your private use. So it could potentially 
cover a breach of the CFA hed entered into with his solicitors. But the policy specifically 
excludes within that section claims where the breach of contract occurred before you 
purchased this insurance.
In this case Mr P entered into the CFA with his solicitors in November 2021. And hes said 
as part of his claim to Amtrust that his solicitors didnt act in his best interests and were 
focussed on and driven by their fees. I can see those issues were raised in the email the 
solicitors sent him on 10 March (prior to the start date of this policy) and Mr P says he was 
aware from that email he faced being charged privately for costs. 
I appreciate Mr P wouldnt have been aware of a later court judgement which I understand 
led his solicitors to seek recovery of their fees when taking out the policy. But based on the 
information Mr P provided I dont think it was unreasonable of Amtrust to conclude the 
alleged breach of contract must have taken place (at least in part) prior to the start date of 
the policy. And the policy is clear it doesnt cover claims where thats the case. So I dont 
think it acted unfairly in turning down the claim Mr P made.
In any event it doesnt appear there is an ongoing claim here. Mr P has told us his solicitors 
have now withdrawn their demand for payment (and have paid him compensation). He 
hasnt suggested he incurred any legal costs in relation to this issue. So, even if he could 
show this claim was covered by his policy, I dont think there would be any further action 
Amtrust now needed to take in relation to it. 
Ive also considered the customer service issues Mr P has raised. Ive listened to calls he 
made to the legal helpline and reviewed call notes. Mr P was provided with advice on how to 
pursue issues following a decision of the Court of Protection and was also advised to make a 
claim on his policy in relation to issues he wanted to pursue against his solicitors. There may 
have been some instances where clearer information could have been given but, looking at 
the service provided as a whole, I dont think Amtrust has been at fault. 
I appreciate Mr P may have been given the expectation he would receive call backs within 
an hour but that isnt something his policy specifies. And I dont think the timeframes within 
which he did receive a response were unreasonable. 
Mr P has raised particular concerns about a call he had on 29 July and that the number he 
was given to call went through to a receptionist. The phone number hes referenced does 
appear to be correct though it seems Mr P didnt end up speaking to the right person when 
he called it. Im not sure why that was but I do appreciate that will have been frustrating for 
him. And I think the call handler could have done more to understand the difficulties that caused. But I think it was reasonable of her to arrange for the legal helpline to call Mr P back 
and I dont think theres more Amtrust needs to do to put things right here.   
Turning to the service provided in relation to Mr Ps claim I appreciate he initially had 
difficulties submitting this online. But Amtrust has evidenced there werent any problems with 
its systems on that day so I cant say this was because of anything it got wrong. And I can 
see Amtrust requested additional information in relation to the claim within five working days 
of it being received. It asked for further clarification within the same timeframe of that 
additional information being provided. 
Mr P says hed already provided that information but even if that is the case I dont think it 
caused significant delay to the progress of the claim. A decision was reached on 14 
November (around 10 working days after the claim was first submitted). I do understand that 
this was a difficult and stressful time for Mr P and he felt under pressure because of the 
demand for payment hed received from his solicitors. But I dont think those response 
timeframes were unreasonable in the circumstances. 
There was a delay by Amtrust in responding to the complaint Mr P made on 29 September 
but I dont think that prevented him from referring the matter to our service as he did that 
prior to receiving Amtrusts response on 7 December. In any event complaint handling isnt 
one of the regulated activities our rules allow us to consider. The way those rules work mean 
I could only direct Amtrust to do something to put things right here if I was also making an 
award for something to do with the handling of Mr Ps insurance claim. As Im not doing so 
this isnt an issue I can help him with. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman