DRN-1579616
The complaint
Mr R has complained that he has been charged an unfair price for his holiday home 
insurance by Arthur J. Gallagher (UK) Ltd (Gallagher).
What happened
Mr R bought a holiday home on a holiday park run by Business A. As part of the licence 
agreement between Mr R and Business A, Mr R had to take out insurance to cover his 
holiday home and he took out insurance through Gallagher. Gallagher didnt underwrite the 
policy, but it took payment from Mr R and undertook the administration of the policy. Mr A 
was sold the policy by a representative of Gallagher, who was also a director of Business A.
Mr R took out the policy in 2016 and it cost him £385. In 2017 it went up to £392 and the 
policy cost the same in 2018. Halfway through the year Mr R moved to a different property 
on the same site and the policy went up by around £2. In 2019 the policy cost £397.
Mr R complained in 2019 about the cost of the insurance. He said that one of his neighbours 
was charged £5 less even though they had a similar property to be insured. Mr R looked 
online and found he could get a policy through a subsidiary business owned by Gallagher for 
£273.23, so he felt he had been overcharged. Mr R also noted that in his license agreement 
with Business A, there was a charge of £48 made by Business A if he didnt get his 
insurance through them. As one of the directors of Business A was also the representative of 
Gallagher, he thought this led to a conflict of interest.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Rs complaint, but they didnt think Gallagher had 
done anything wrong. They explained that they couldnt look into the agreement between 
Mr R and Business A. They thought that Gallagher had provided clear enough information to 
Mr R so he could decide for himself whether to take out the insurance. When thinking about 
the price charged, they said that it wasnt as simple as comparing the price of two different 
insurance policies to say one was better value than the other and they thought Gallagher 
had priced the policy fairly.
Mr R didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be considered again by an ombudsman. He 
noted that a neighbours policy cost £179.89 for the same type of holiday home, so he felt he 
was being over charged. He also noted that Gallagher hadnt supplied all of the information it 
needed to until after hed agreed to take out the insurance and paid the full premium.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is helpful to set out which parts of Mr Rs complaint against Gallagher I am able to 
consider, and which parts I cant. Gallaghers representative was also a director of Business A. Its important to draw a 
distinction between when they were acting for Gallagher and when they were acting for 
Business A  Gallagher are only responsible for things done on its behalf.
Business A has explained that in its licence agreement with Mr R it set out a number of 
insurance requirements it needs from its customers who buy a holiday home. And it says it 
can arrange insurance directly or through brokers it works with that satisfy those 
requirements. If a customer chooses to get insurance through another method, Business A 
charges £48 to verify the level of cover and undertake other administrative tasks. Business A 
says this is a standard term in these types of license agreements.
Ive thought about whether Gallagher can be responsible for anything under this license 
agreement, but I dont think it can be. When Business A and Mr R entered into the 
agreement, Business A wasnt doing anything on Gallaghers behalf  it was selling a holiday 
home, not insurance  and I cant see that Gallagher are mentioned in this agreement. 
Business A did set out the level of insurance it expected Mr R to take out in the license 
agreement, but it doesnt say Mr R has to take out any specific insurance with a named 
company and it sets out the cost to Business A of checking policies not sold through its 
partners. Although I understand why Mr R might think parts of this licence agreement arent 
fair, thats not something Gallagher is responsible for. 
Ive considered whether I think the policy was mis-sold to Mr R and I dont think it was. Mr R 
hasnt said he was told he had to take out the policy with Gallagher. And from the documents 
available at the time of sale, I think he was given a choice about whether he wanted to take 
out the policy with Gallagher - his license agreement made clear he could take out other 
policies if he wanted. 
Mr R wasnt given a recommendation to take out the policy, so Gallagher had to make sure 
he was given enough information for him to make an informed decision for himself to take 
out the insurance. Mr R has said he wasnt given all the documents until after he decided to 
take out the policy, so its possible he wasnt given everything he needed at the time he took 
it out. But even if that was the case, I dont think it makes a difference in this case. Mr R 
needed to take out insurance that offered the cover as detailed in his licence agreement, 
which the Gallagher policy did. I dont think it would have made a difference to him if he 
knew more about what the policy did or didnt cover, as this policy was sufficient to cover 
what his agreement said he needed to insure. Mr R was aware of the price and he agreed to 
take out the policy, so he must have been content with paying £385 at that stage. So even if 
he wasnt given all the information he needed, I dont think it would have made a difference 
in this case and that he would have still bought the policy. And as Mr R wasnt given a 
recommendation, Gallagher (or its representative) didnt have to make it clear that he might 
have been able to get alternative cover cheaper elsewhere.
Ive also considered whether I think Gallagher or its representative have done anything 
wrong in the way the policy was sold that meant hed been treated unfairly. I understand 
Mr R believes there was a conflict of interest because Gallaghers representative was also a 
director of Business A. But I cant see how that gave rise to any situation where Mr R was 
treated unfairly. The representative was able to present Gallaghers insurance to Mr R, but 
as Ive set out above, I dont think this was presented in a way that meant it was mis-sold. 
Ultimately it was for Mr R to decide whether he wanted to take out insurance through 
Gallaghers and he chose to do so.
Mr R has said that he thinks hes been charged an unfair amount, noting that he could have 
got a similar policy online through a Gallagher subsidiary company for less and that a 
neighbour paid significantly less for their insurance.There can be a number of reasons why one policy is cheaper than another. Its not 
uncommon for different insurers to use different models to work out risk and how much it 
needs to charge its customers to cover that risk, whether that be due to the type of property 
being insured or the circumstances of the person insuring it. Also, different polices often 
cover different things and the level of what consumers need to pay in excess toward any 
claim also affects the price  it appears that Mr R had a high level of cover with a low 
excess. And the way consumers buy policies can have an effect on price  sometimes 
consumers buying insurance online find that they can get cheaper premiums. So just 
because other insurance policies were cheaper, it doesnt mean Mr Rs policy was priced 
unfairly. 
Gallagher has explained that Mr Rs policy was priced inline with the risk that the 
underwriters worked out. And Mr Rs policy price remained fairly static, ranging from £385 to 
£397. So I dont think this was a case where Gallagher were increasing the amount Mr R 
paid to take advantage of him not shopping around at renewal. It follows I dont think Mr R 
was treated unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against Arthur J. Gallagher 
(UK) Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman