DRN-4069753
The Complaint
Mr H says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance)
(BPF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to the purchase of timeshares in
October 2009 and June 2010. 
The claims, which are the subject of this complaint, are Mr Hs to make because they stem
from credit agreements in his name only. However, as they relate to purchases made by him 
and his wife (Mrs H), Ill refer to Mr and Mrs H at times throughout this decision.
Background to the Complaint
Mr and Mrs H bought membership of a timeshare from a third party (the Supplier) on 
11 October 2009 (the First Purchase). They purchased 1,000 points and they helped to pay 
for them by borrowing money from BPF in Mr Hs name (Credit Agreement One). 
Then, on 8 June 2010, Mr and Mrs H made another purchase from the Supplier  this time 
for 501 points (the Second Purchase). And, again, they borrowed money from BPF in Mr 
Hs name to help pay for them (Credit Agreement Two).1 
Unhappy with each sale, Mr H  using a professional representative (PR)  made claims 
under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA for misrepresentation and an unfair relationship on 
17 October 2019 (the Letter of Claim).
The reasons for the claims under Section 75 were described in the following terms:
1.At the time of sale, our [Clients] [were] advised by [the Supplier] that they were 
purchasing membership [] and were able to reserve holiday accommodation based on 
their point[s]. In addition, if our [Clients] [were] unable to reserve a suitable holiday, [they] 
had the opportunity to enrol for a 1 year exchange scheme [] to exchange occupancy 
rights for a holiday accommodation at one of 3700 resorts worldwide.
2.Our [Clients] did not realise that the contractual documentation states [they] purchased a 
Floating Weeks Timeshare with no mention of a resort location or allocated property []. 
Furthermore, our [Clients] were unaware that these Floating Weeks timeshare 
agreement[s] [have] been found to be Null and Void under the European Directive and 
confirmed by [a] Spanish Court of Law as the product did not conform to the description 
of a timeshare. [].
As for the claims under Section 140A, they related to PRs allegation that Credit Agreements 
One and Two were null and void because the purchase agreements were also null and 
void  having not accurately described the accommodation Mr and Mrs H had access to, 
including the location of the accommodation or the period of time that they had use of it, as 
required under European Directive 94/47/EC and Spanish law2.
1 BPF says that Credit Agreements One and Two were settled on 29 July 2010 and 17 November 2010.
2 PR said this was affirmed in a Spanish Supreme Court decision on 15 January 2015 (No 564/2015).
It doesnt look like Mr H got a substantive response to his claims from BPF. So, a complaint 
was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 25 February 2020. And accompanying 
that referral was a letter from PR adding to what the Letter of Claim had said (the Letter of 
Complaint). That letter covered a lot of the same ground as the Letter of Claim  which I 
wont repeat here. But to the extent that it added to the allegations that were first made, in 
summary, the Letter of Complaint also said the following:
1. Mr H was sold membership of the Club at an extortionate interest rate of 17.5%.
2. Having referred to Chickombe v The Financial Conduct Authority [2018] UKUT 0258 
(TCC) (Chickombe), Mr H suffered detriment for the same reasons alleged in that case:
i. The terms of the loan were not fully explained to him before he signed the Credit
Agreement.
ii. Proper credit checks werent carried out.
iii. He wasnt given adequate time to consider the terms of the proposed loan.
iv. He was subject to high pressure selling.
v. False representations were made by the [Supplier] in relation to the financial impact
of the Credit Agreement[s].
vi. He wasnt fully informed, [he was] misled or both as to the duration of the Credit
Agreement[s].
vii. He has concerns about undisclosed commission.3
3. BPFs decision to charge Mr H interest at 17.5% compared to the Bank of England base 
rate of 0.5% was an unfair contract term that caused him financial detriment.
4. As demonstrated in Chickombe, BPF didnt comply with Principles 2, 6 and 8 of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (the FCA) core Principles because it permitted a business 
other than the Supplier to misrepresent null and void purchase agreements.
5. The time limits under the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA) dont apply to Mr Hs claims 
because his date of knowledge fell within three years of when he claimed.
The complaint was passed to an investigator who, having considered the information 
available, concluded that Mr Hs claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA were out of 
time under the LA.
PR disagreed with the investigators assessment. Much of what it had to say repeated what 
the Letters of Claim and Complaint said. So, I wont repeat a lot of its response here. But, in 
summary, it did say the following in relation to the limitation period that the investigator 
thought was relevant to her outcome:
1. Whenever someone purchased a timeshare like the one in question, their only chance of
restitution was after the Financial Ombudsman Service issued Final Decisions in 2021
concluding that lenders were responsible for the acts and/or omissions of their agents
(i.e., timeshare providers). This complaint, therefore, was made within three years of the
date of knowledge of those Final Decisions.
2. It was only when Mr H engaged with PR in June 2019 that he became aware that the
purchase agreements were null and void.
3. According to a Statement of Account provided by BPF, Mr H still had a relationship with
it until 23 October 2015 because his loan account was still active until then. As a result,
the limitation period starts from 23 October 2015.
4. Section 14A of the LA gives Mr H more time to make his claims because BPF ought to
have known about European Directive 94/47/EC before providing Mr H with the finance
3 The extent to which vulnerable consumers werent treated appropriately was also listed by PR as one of the possible causes 
of detriment identified in Chickombe  though no direct reference was made to Mr H being vulnerable.to make the purchases in question. In PRs view, therefore, BPF owed Mr H a duty of
care and shouldnt have provided him with finance to purchase points-based timeshares
that were in breach of the relevant regulations.
The investigator wasnt persuaded by what PR had to say in response to her assessment. 
So, the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
While the complaint waited for that decision, PR made further submissions  primarily 
concerned with limitation. And, in summary, it made the following argument to support its 
assertion that Mr Hs claims were likely to have been made in time under the LA:
1. The purchase agreements entered into by Mr H failed to meet the information 
requirements in Schedule 1 of the Timeshare Act 1992 (the 1992 Act) because they 
didnt set out:
The exact nature of the right(s) that was/were the subject of the agreements.
An accurate description of the holiday accommodation and its location.
The exact period within which the holiday rights may have been exercised.
2. As a result, Mr Hs withdrawal period was 3 months and 10 days from the start date of
each purchase agreement. And as the money advanced under Credit Agreements One
and Two was paid to the Supplier by BPF during the extended withdrawal periods when
such payments werent permitted as per Clause 5B (F52) of the 1992 Act, both the
Supplier and BPF breached the 1992 Act.
3. In PRs view, as the Supplier and BPF breached the 1992 Act, that amounted to:
i. a contractual breach of the purchase agreements and Credit Agreements One and 
Two; and
ii. a breach of BPFs duty of care owed to Mr H to ensure that it and the Supplier didnt 
breach the 1992 Act.
4. In light of the Suppliers breaches of the 1992 Act, BPF acted negligently when it paid the 
Supplier what remained of the purchase prices in October 2009 and June 2010 because 
it owed Mr H a duty of care to ensure the relevant law was complied with. And as Section 
14A of the LA gives Mr H three years from he became aware (whether actually or 
constructively) of a claim, in PRs view, his claims were made in time.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD 1) on 7 October 2022 in which I provisionally found that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service didnt have the jurisdiction to consider a complaint about 
the CCA claims Mr H made in relation to the First Purchase because I hadnt seen enough 
information to suggest that BPF had financed that purchase. However, in response to PD 1, 
I was provided with more information from both sides that suggested otherwise. And having 
considered that information, I went on to decide that the Service did have the jurisdiction to 
consider Mr Hs complaint about the relevant claims after all.
With that being the case, the complaint was passed back to me to consider the merits of it. 
While I did that, PR wrote to me on 1 March 2023 to support its assertion that the Supplier 
failed to comply with the information requirements in Schedule 1 of the 1992 Act by drawing 
to my attention a statement by Mr H that suggests he wasnt provided with the following 
documents in either October 2009 or June 2010:
The Memorandum and Articles of AssociationThe Scheme Rules and Regulations
A Disclosure Statement
Having considered the information on file, I issued another Provisional Decision (PD 2) on 
14 April 2023 rejecting the complaint because:
1. I thought that the claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA were made out of time 
under the LA; and
2. I wasnt persuaded by the merits of the complaints about BPFs decisions to lend and the 
lawfulness of the purchase agreements along with the implications of that on the credit 
agreements Mr H entered into.
In response, BPF had nothing further to add. But PR disagreed and responded at length. 
Much of what PR had to say goes over a lot of existing ground. So, I wont repeat its existing 
submissions here. But I note that PR does take the view that I had taken too narrow an 
approach to this complaint instead of taking the same approach I took to a complaint (about 
a different type of timeshare) that was recently the subject of a judicial review.
As the deadline for responses to PD 2 has been and gone, the complaint was passed back 
to me to consider.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant
time.
As I said in PD 2, when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, 
Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
And having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I still dont think 
this complaint should be upheld.
In response to PD 2, PR added to what was already a considerable amount of information 
and submissions in an effort to explain what it thinks the outcome of this complaint should 
be. However, as Ive said before, the Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a 
quick and informal alternative to the courts. So, my role as an ombudsman isnt to address 
every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable 
given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what 
I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for 
reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue 
to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this 
complaint, when doing that.However, before I get to my findings, I think it might be helpful to address what PR says 
about the findings of the High Court following a recent judicial review of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service and the approach PR thinks I should take to this complaint  
which, in short, it thinks should be more or less identical to the approach I and anther 
ombudsman took to the complaints that were judicially reviewed.
As Ive said above, I found in PD 2 that Mr Hs claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the 
CCA were made out of time under the LA. And as limitation wasnt the subject of the judicial 
review, it isnt directly relevant to this complaint. The High Court did affirm the findings I 
made on Section 56 of the CCA and the extent to which it creates a statutory agency 
relationship between a creditor and supplier when theres a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement in place  such that any negotiations between Mr H and the Supplier before his 
purchases are deemed to have been conducted by the Supplier as an agent of BPF. And I 
note that PR thinks that I hadnt approached this complaint in the same way when I came to 
my provisional findings in PD 2. But for reasons I get on to below, I disagree.
The complaints at the centre of the judicial review were concerned with a particular type of 
asset-backed timeshare, known in the industry as a 'fractional ownership timeshare'. Such 
timeshares offered prospective members the same sort of holiday rights commonly 
associated with timeshares more generally. But they also offered prospective members a 
'share' in the 'ownership' of a specific property. They didnt usually confer any rights to stay 
in that property. But under the terms of the purchase agreement, the property is usually set 
to be sold at the end of the membership period and the net proceeds distributed (on a pro-
rata basis) among the fractional owners. 
But that isnt the type of timeshares Mr H purchased as I cant see that his membership 
offered him such an opportunity. And PR seems to be overlooking that fact when it says: 
We have shown that our Clients claim shares the same characteristics as the cases which 
were reviewed by the Judicial Court resulting in the Judicial Decision of 05/05/2023.
While fractional and non-fractional timeshares may have been sold in a similar way, the fact 
that the non-fractional timeshares werent designed with an investment element front and 
centre is an important distinction to consider when determining what a fair and reasonable 
outcome to a complaint involving a non-fractional timeshare might look like. After all, and as 
PR seems to acknowledge, those parts of the judicial review and subsequent judgment 
concerned with the prohibition in Regulation 14(3) of the Timeshare, Holiday Products, 
Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the Timeshare Regulations 2010) and 
the provision of information in relation to any investment element arent relevant to non-
fractional timeshares  including those purchased by Mr H. 
I acknowledge that some non-fractional timeshares might share a number of contractual 
terms that were the subject of the judicial review (and may fall foul of the relevant law on 
unfair contract terms). However, an assessment of unfairness under Section 140A of the 
CCA doesnt necessarily stop at a regulatory breach. Its often necessary to then assess the 
impact of that breach on the consumer. That much is clear from case law - including the 
recent timeshares judicial review. 
In other words, complaints must be decided on their individual merits. And it is with that 
approach in mind that Ive considered the facts and circumstances of this complaint.
The Section 75 Claims for Misrepresentation
Section 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Mr H) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor (BPF) is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should they choose to.
A claim for misrepresentation against the Supplier would ordinarily be made under 
Section 2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in 
Green v Eadie & Others [2011] EWHC B24 (Ch) (Green v Eadie) that a claim under 
Section 2(1) of the MA is an action founded in tort for the purposes of the LA. So, the 
limitation period expires six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued (see 
Section 2 of the LA).
Mr H made like claims against BPF under Section 75 of the CCA and the limitation period for 
those claims is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claims. As noted in paragraph 
5.145 of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice, BPF may adopt any defence that would 
have been or would be open to the Supplier, including that of limitation:
There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim against 
the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, to the extent that 
the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the creditor may shelter behind 
that exclusion or limitation.
So, this means that Mr H had six years from the date on which the causes of action accrued 
to make his Section 75 claims.
The date on which the causes of action accrued is the point at which Mr H entered into the 
purchase and credit agreements. I say this because the Letters of Claim and Complaint say 
that he entered into the purchase agreements based on the alleged misrepresentations of 
the Supplier. And as the finance from BPF in 2009 and 2010 was used to help pay for the 
purchases, it was when he entered into Credit Agreements One and Two that he suffered a 
loss.
It follows, therefore, that the causes of action accrued on 11 October 2009 and 8 June 2010 
or, if later, when Mr H entered into Credit Agreements One and Two  which means that, at 
the latest, he had six years from when he entered into the relevant credit agreements to 
make his claims. But as he didnt do that until 17 October 2019, and as I still cant see a 
reason why the limitation period is likely to be postponed in keeping with the LA, his claims 
are likely to have been too late. And for that reason, I still think BPF had and has a defence 
to them under the LA.
The Section 140A Claims for an Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationships between Mr H and BPF were 
unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it 
applies to Credit Agreements One and Two  which it does.
However, as I said in PD 2, as a claim under Section 140A is an action to recover any sum 
recoverable by virtue of any enactment under Section 9 of the LA, Ive also considered that 
provision here.
The First Purchase
It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. As the limitation period under Section 9 of the LA is six years, and 
as Mr Hs Section 140A claim in relation to Credit Agreement One was only made in October 2019, I think BPF was and is entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to this claim too 
as Im satisfied that the Agreement ended in July 2010.
The Second Purchase
Ahead of PD 2, PR argued that Credit Agreement Two didnt end until 23 October 2015 
because a Statement of Account indicates that a credit of £3.45 was applied to Mr Hs loan 
account before being debited on the same day. In response, BPF said that the amount in 
question was simply a refund its remediation team applied (as a rebate on the interest Mr H 
paid at settlement) to Mr Hs loan account that was then paid to him by cheque on 23 
October  hence why it was credited and debited on the same day.
As I said in PD 2, when the unfair relationship provisions came into force, they applied to all 
new and existing credit agreements unless they became completed during the 12-month 
transitional period (see Schedule 3, paragraphs 14(1)-(3), of the Consumer Credit Act 2006 
(the CCA 2006)).
Paragraph 1(2) of that Schedule states that a credit agreement becomes a "completed 
agreement" once (a) there is no sum payable under the agreement and (b) there is no sum
which will or may become so payable.
So, I thought that once Mr H settled what was outstanding under Credit Agreement Two on 
17 November 2010, there was nothing left to pay and nothing that looked like it would or 
might become payable. And as that was the test deemed appropriate to determining when a 
credit agreement ended for the purpose of the transitional provisions in the CCA 2006, I saw 
no reason why a different test ought to be applied to this complaint. And for that reason, I 
thought it was on 17 November 2010 when the relevant relationship between BPF and Mr H 
ended.
In response to PD 2, PR said the following:
We provide evidence that [BPF] confirmed to [Mr H] that [his] settlement interest calculation 
methodology was incorrect i.e., [BPF] negligently charged a higher interest to [Mr H] 
resulting in [him] overpaying [BPF] to settle the loan  see Appendix A. Therefore, [], 
[Mr Hs] loan was not completed on 17 November 2010 but [] when [BPF] rectified their 
error on 23 October 2015. [] In [Mr Hs] case there was a sum which may become payable 
as [BPF] used an incorrect method for calculating settlement interest  this is negligence on 
the part of [BPF].
However, the Governments Explanatory Notes accompanying Paragraph 1(2) of Schedule 3 
of the CCA 2006 made it clear that a completed agreement is one under which no party has 
any further obligations under the agreement because no further sums are payable. Yet, 
PRs submission on this point doesnt explain, with reference to Credit Agreement Two, what 
obligations the parties to that Agreement continued to have under it after it was settled. PR 
also doesnt explain how a small refund five or so years after the Agreement was settled 
(and deemed settled by both parties to it) constitutes a sum payable under that Agreement 
rather than simply the reflection of a mathematical mistake BPF made in November 2010 
that it went on to put right  particularly when PRs own evidence (Appendix A) demonstrates 
that the £3.45 was paid to Mr H by cheque because the very Agreement it says wasnt 
completed was no longer in place.
As a result, therefore, Im not persuaded that the limitation period started on 
23 October 2015 rather than when Mr H settled Credit Agreement Two. So, I still think he 
had six years from 17 November 2010 to make his Section 140A claim in relation to that 
Agreement. But as he only did so in October 2019, it remains my view that BPF was and is also entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to this claim.
Grounds to Extend Time
Section 14A of the LA provides claimants with a Special time limit for negligence actions [in
which] facts relevant to cause of action are not known at date of accrual. And PR says that
this provision gives Mr H more time to make his claims. 
As I said in PD 2, it isnt entirely clear whether PR is saying that both types of CCA claim 
made by Mr H (i.e., his Section 75 and Section 140A claims) were made in time because of 
Section 14A of the LA or one over the other. But either way, I still dont think Section 14A 
gave Mr H more time to make any of his claims.
A claim for negligence is a cause of action in tort. And as noted in paragraph 32.35 of 
Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice, Section 75 of the CCA cant found a claim in tort 
against the creditor except on the basis of a fraudulent or negligent misrepresentation. But 
on my reading of this complaint, Mr Hs allegations of misrepresentation still dont set out in 
any detail the representations that are said to have been made by the Supplier  let alone 
persuade me that they were fraudulent or negligent. So, it remains my view that Section 14A 
of the LA doesnt help Mr Hs cause when it comes to his Section 75 claims for 
misrepresentation.
As for Mr Hs Section 140A claims, as I said in PD 2, I didnt think that Section 14A of the LA 
helped to give Mr H more time to claim because I hadnt seen anything that persuaded me it 
could. 
Having read PRs response to PD 2, and having looked at PRs submissions as a whole, it 
now seems to me that PR is saying that a breach of the 1992 Act by the Supplier was, itself, 
an act of negligence  such that the limitation period for any claim against the Supplier in 
relation to such a breach is governed by Section 14A of the LA. And in light of how 
Section 56 of the CCA works, PR also seems to be saying that must also mean that the 
limitation period for a claim against a creditor (in a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement) 
involving the same breach is also governed by Section 14A.
However, it seems to me that PR is conflating and, in turn, confusing the part played by 
Section 56 of the CCA in an assessment of unfairness under Section 140A with limitation 
and whether Mr Hs claims were made in time under the LA. 
Mr Hs claims under Section 140A werent made under a provision of the CCA intended to 
reproduce, against a creditor, the relevant damages claim which a complainant enjoys 
against the supplier (like Section 75 does). Instead, claims under Section 140A are only 
concerned with whether there was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship. And while the 
Suppliers alleged breaches of the 1992 Act (and alleged negligence) would undoubtedly be 
relevant to an assessment of unfairness because of the statutory agency relationship 
created by Section 56 between the Supplier and BPF, PR hasnt pointed me to any relevant 
authorities to demonstrate that a claim of unfairness under Section 140A that happens to 
involve allegations of negligence by a timeshare provider changes that claim, for the purpose 
of limitation, from an action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of any enactment, 
governed by Section 9 of the LA, to a claim for negligence governed Section 14A.
With that being the case, therefore, Im still not persuaded that Section 14A of the LA gave 
Mr H more time to make his Section 140A claims.
CommissionPR says that Mr H has concerns about undisclosed commission. But had such a payment 
been made to the Supplier by BPF, I still havent seen anything to suggest BPF would have 
breached a duty by making it  nor have I seen anything to suggest it was under a regulatory 
duty to disclose the amount of commission paid in these circumstances. Whats more, as I 
continue to understand it, the typical amounts of commission paid by BPF to suppliers (like
the Supplier in this case) was unlikely to be much more than 10%.4 So, in the absence of 
evidence to the contrary, it remains my view that its unlikely that the levels of commission 
normally paid in situations like the one in question were high enough to put BPF on notice 
that not disclosing commission to Mr H risked making their debtor-creditor relationship unfair 
under Section 140A.
The Purchase Agreements
PRs argument that the purchase agreements and credit agreements were null and void 
was framed as giving rise to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under Section 140A. But 
as Ive already explained why the claims under that provision were likely to have been made 
out of time under the LA, it isnt necessary to consider this argument in that context.
However, as I said in PD 2, providing credit or otherwise being a creditor under a regulated 
consumer credit agreement was an activity covered by the Financial Ombudsman Services 
Compulsory Jurisdiction in October 2009 and June 2010. And as PRs argument here is to 
suggest that, because the purchase agreements were null and void in light of information 
failings, Credit Agreements One and Two were also null and void, I considered the argument 
separately to Mr Hs Section 140A claims.
Having done that again, I continue to acknowledge that its possible that the purchase 
agreements entered into by Mr H in October 2009 and June 2010 failed to comply with the 
information requirements in the 1992 Act. But I still cant see anything in that Act (or the 
European Directive 94/47/EC) that suggests that a purchase agreement could be rescinded 
by a consumer if the information in question wasnt provided. Mr Hs purchase agreements 
may not have been enforceable by the Supplier during the relevant cooling off periods as 
PRs submissions suggest. But as Ive said before, a purchase agreement that cant be 
enforced is very different from one that the consumer is entitled to rescind. And as I still 
havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr Hs purchase agreements and, in turn, credit 
agreements could be unwound from the start had the Supplier failed to satisfy some of the 
information requirements in the 1992 Act, Im still not persuaded by PRs argument here.
As for the judgment of the Spanish Supreme Court that PR says is relevant, I still dont think 
it helps Mr Hs cause either. As I said in PD 2, point P of the terms and conditions attached 
to the purchase agreement entered into by Mr and Mrs H at the time of the Second 
Purchase makes it clear that the agreement was to be construed in accordance with English 
law. And Ive seen nothing to suggest the purchase agreement entered into at the time of the 
First Purchase was any different. So, I cant see how the judgment of a Spanish court can be 
applied directly to the question as to whether the relevant purchase agreements were 
voidable under English law. And for that reason, I dont think there are any implications on 
Credit Agreements One and/or Two that justify upholding this complaint.
4 BPF provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with information that confirms that the typical amounts of commission paid 
by it was unlikely to be much more than 10%. And I accept that information in confidence. But, in keeping with DISP 3.5.9 [R], 
one of Barclays Bank PLCs Managing Directors (who is responsible for BPFs legacy loan book and registered with the 
Financial Conduct Authority) confirms, in summary, that according to the records BPF is still able to access:
1. The commission amounts paid by BPF to timeshare providers, in relation to customers introduced by them, ranged from 
0% (i.e., no commission was paid) to a maximum of 10.5%.
2. Over 78% of BPFs commission payments amounted to less than 7% of the amounts granted.The Lending Decision
While PR says that Mr H suffered detriment because the right checks werent carried out 
before BPF lent to him, as I said in PD 2, even if I were to find that BPF failed to do 
everything it should have when it agreed to lend (and I make no such finding), Id have to be 
satisfied that the money lent to Mr H was unaffordable before also concluding that he lost out 
as a result. As I still havent seen anything to persuade me that was the case, I dont think 
this is a reason to uphold this complaint given its circumstances.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman