DRN-2609672
The complaint
B complains that Society of Lloyds mishandled a claim on a commercial vehicle fleet policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a complaint from a consumer, micro-
enterprise or small business. B is a small business. It is a limited company with a director Mr 
A. Through a broker, B (or an associated company) took out a commercial vehicle policy in 
November 2018.
B reported the theft of one of its commercial vehicles in October 2019. The company made a 
claim under the policy. It said the vehicle had been worth about £7,500.00.
The broker renewed the policy in November 2019. B says it became the policyholder in 
place of its associated company.
In January 2020, the insurer said that that the policyholder hadnt disclosed that Mr A had a 
criminal conviction. The insurer declined the theft claim and  after giving seven days notice 
- cancelled the policy. 
 
B complained to Society of Lloyds about that. Society of Lloyds wrote a final response 
dated 8 April 2020, turning down the complaint. B brought its complaint to us in May 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Society of Lloyds had dealt with this complaint fairly.
B disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. It hasnt given reasons why it disagreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has said that he was sentenced on 15 May 2014. Lloyds has said this was for a 
weapons offence.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) provides 
that a consumer must take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to an insurer. 
Whether or not a consumer has taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation is to 
be determined in the light of all the relevant circumstances including, for example:
how clear, and how specific, the insurers questions were
But CIDRA applies only to an individual. It doesnt apply to a limited company like B or its 
associated company. So CIDRA doesnt apply to this complaint.
Im dealing with a complaint against the insurer not the broker. From its terms of business, 
Im satisfied that the broker wasnt acting on behalf of the insurer.
Clearly Mr A knew he had a criminal conviction. And Companies House records show that 
he was a director of the B and its associated company. So each of those companies knew 
that he had a criminal conviction. 
Under the Insurance Act 2015, the prospective policyholder had to make a fair presentation 
of risk to the insurer. The conviction was a relevant consideration for the insurer. And the 
policyholder didnt disclose it. So I find that the policyholder didnt make a fair presentation of 
risk to the insurer. Im satisfied that this was a qualifying breach under the Insurance Act.
The policyholder has said that it left matters in the hands of a broker and an office manager 
who didnt know about the criminal conviction. I consider that the policyholder was reckless 
as to whether it gave a fair presentation of risk or not. From its underwriting evidence I 
accept that the insurer wouldnt have underwritten the policy if the policyholder or its 
representatives had disclosed Mr As criminal conviction.
As the policy had started in November 2018, the theft claim from October 2019 fell in the first 
policy year and before the renewal in November 2019. 
As there wasnt a fair presentation of risk but a qualifying breach and recklessness on the 
part of the policyholder, the Insurance Act entitled the insurer to decline to meet the theft 
claim and to keep the premium. So I dont find that the insurer treated B unfairly by declining 
the theft claim and cancelling the policy without refunding the premium.
As its letter of 9 April 2020 was properly addressed, Im satisfied that Society of Lloyds sent 
it that day. I accept that B didnt receive it until late May 2020. But  as there may have been 
a problem with the post - I dont hold Society of Lloyds responsible for that. Society of 
Lloyds didnt have to send the letter by registered mail. 
Overall I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct the insurer to meet the claim, refund the 
premium or to do anything more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Society of Lloyds to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman