DRN-3749058
Complaint
Mr B has complained that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) trading as 
American Express (AmEx) rejected his claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr B bought solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2014. The purchase was 
funded in part with a payment from Mr Bs AmEx credit card, and that business is therefore 
liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, 
that relates to the installer misleading Mr B into believing that the panels would be self-
funding over an 8-year period, which they werent.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the system were mis-represented to Mr B, and that fair redress would be to make the panels 
cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-year period. The redress should 
be based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of 
assumptions on future performance. 
AmEx didnt agree explaining it felt the complaint shouldnt be upheld on Mr Bs testimony 
alone. It also added that Mr B would make significant savings on energy bills and earn an 
income from the Feed in Tariff (FIT) over a 20-year period. AmEx felt the system would be 
self-funding over the 20-year period.  
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AmEx is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. Its also been 
set out by our adjudicator in previous correspondence. So, I dont consider it necessary to 
set all of that out in this decision.
I understand that there is limited documentary evidence available in this case. But Mr B has 
said he was not left a quote or the facts and figures the sales representative set out during 
the sales meeting. Consumers cannot provide evidence that they do not have. But where 
there is limited information about a sale, I have to make a decision based on the available 
evidence and that includes Mr Bs testimony.  
Mr B has repeatedly explained he was assured that the system would be self-funding in 
around 8 years, and it was based on this representation that he purchased the system. Mr B 
added that he was due to retire within a year of the sale and I dont think its unusual that he 
remembers the amount of time it would take for him to recoup the cost. Given his financial 
situation, I think thats likely to have been of paramount importance and easily remembered. 
His testimony has been consistent and clear throughout. 
Overall, I think his testimony is reliable evidence of what he was likely told during the sale. 
I understand AmEx has questioned whether the written statements made by the installer 
amounted to a misrepresentation. However, our investigator didnt assert the general 
statements on the website amounted to a misrepresentation in themselves. As explained, 
the nature and tone of the statements on the website match that which Mr B has alleged  
and this adds weight to Mr Bs claim regarding the specific misrepresentations made by the 
installer verbally in his case. 
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr B was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that AmEx didnt treat Mr B fairly and he lost out because of what AmEx did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what AmEx needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for AmEx to put things right by recalculating the cost of 
the system based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr B from the solar 
panels over a 10 period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, 
and any future benefits after the 10-year period. This is in line with our established approach 
to these types of cases 
I have thought carefully regarding AmExs comments that Mr B has benefited from the solar 
panel system and will continue to do so going forward. I appreciate AmEx calculates that the 
total benefit he will likely receive over a 20-year period will more than cover the total cost of 
the system. However, given Mr Bs imminent plans to retire at the time of sale, I dont believe 
he envisaged waiting 20 years to recover his costs. And given his circumstances, I dont 
think its fair to expect Mr B to wait 20 years before recouping his costs. 
Mr B says he was assured the system would be self-funding in around 8 years. But Ive 
decided the redress should be calculated over a 10 period (as recommended by our 
investigator), rather than the 8-year period Mr B has requested. This is because I need to 
ensure the redress is fair and reasonable to both Mr B and AmEx. 
The purpose of our redress methodology is to make sure Mr B doesnt suffer a financial loss, 
not to make the misrepresentation come true. As AmEx says, Because Mr B can expect to 
benefit from the solar panels (through energy savings and Feed-In Tariff payments) for 20 
years, I think a 10-year period is reasonable when calculating the redress as suggested by 
our investigator. 
In this specific case, I do not think a shorter period or longer period would strike the 
appropriate balance in terms of fairness for both parties.  
In the event the calculation shows that Mr B is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then AmEx needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr B by way of explanation. I would add that I do appreciate that its difficult to know for certain what will happen in the 
future and what Mr B will actually receive in benefit going forward. However, our established 
approach to redress in these types of cases seeks to calculate a reasonable amount 
compensation to put things right. 
As our adjudicator explained, Mr Bs FIT tariff was 14.9p and the Export tariff was 4.77p after 
installation. AmEx should use these figures to work out what benefit hell get over 10 years 
from the FIT/Export payments. American Express should assume a 37% self- consumption 
rate of electricity to cover Mr Bs use in the home and a default electricity
unit price of 15p per kwh to work out the electricity savings he will achieve over 10 years.
I would add that while the total cost of the system was originally £15,250  Mr B has 
confirmed he was given a discount of £250 and he only paid £15,000 which is shown on the 
statements he has submitted. 
Mr B paid for the deposit for his solar panels by credit card and paid the balance from his 
bank account. Therefore, AmEx should pay Mr B the difference between what he paid in 
total and the self-funding amount, with 8% interest.
 
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr B first 
contacted AmEx that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that AmEx should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. American Express Services 
Europe Limited (AESEL) trading as American Express should put things right in the way Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman