DRN-4066127
The complaint
Mr M, through a representative, says Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, 
irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr M took out three instalment loans from Bamboo. A summary of his borrowing follows.
loan taken out repaidvalue, 
£termmonthly 
repayment, 
£total 
repayable, 
£
1 12/06/2020 18/08/2020 1,500 12 173.95 2,087.36
2 22/09/2020 25/01/2021 1,000 12 106.41 1,276.96
3 13/04/2022 27/02/2023 1,500 12 164.65 1,975.87
Mr M says Bamboo did not carry out proportionate checks before lending to him; the loans 
were not affordable for him.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. He said Bamboos checks were not proportionate 
and had it completed better checks it ought to have realised the loans would not be 
sustainably affordable for Mr M.
Unhappy with this assessment Bamboo asked for an ombudsmans review. In summary, it 
said at the time each of loan Mr M had a largely good credit profile; any adverse data was 
historic; his overall indebtedness reduced whilst he was a customer, as did his credit 
utilisation; and he settled the loans early. It argues in these circumstances it would not have 
been proportionate to request bank statements. And after reviewing them now, whilst it 
acknowledges there were gambling transactions, it says these were small debit payments 
and Mr M still had disposable income for discretionary spending. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ms complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Mr M would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse
consequences?
- If so, did it make fair lending decisions?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mr M wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Bamboo to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Ms ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Bamboo had to think about whether repaying
the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr M. In practice this meant
that the business had to ensure that making the payments to the loans wouldnt cause
Mr M undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough
for Bamboo to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider
the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M. Checks also had to be proportionate to the
specific circumstances of the loan applications.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Bamboo has provided evidence to show that before each loan it asked for some information
from Mr M. It asked for his monthly income, his employment status and his housing cost. It 
completed income verification checks with a third-party and used national statistics to make 
an assumption about his living costs. It carried out a credit check to understand his credit 
history and his existing credit commitments. Based on the results of these checks Bamboo 
thought it was fair to lend. 
Loan 1I am not satisfied the Bamboos checks were proportionate given what it learnt from the 
initial results. I say this as it concluded from the credit check that Mr M was already spending 
£505 each month, from his declared income of £1,350, to meet his existing credit 
commitments. Whilst I accept he was up to date on his active accounts, this was a high 
proportion of his income  something that can be a predictor of future financial difficulties. So 
I think this should have triggered Bamboo to complete a fuller financial review to ensure it 
fully understood Mr Ms actual incomings and outgoings before lending. 
Mr M has provided his bank statements from the months prior to his application. I am not 
saying Bamboo had to request them, but it is a way for me to recreate what better checks 
would most likely have shown. I think its fair to assume Bamboo would have learnt that     
Mr Ms income was lower than he declared at £1,177 and his essential living costs were 
around £770, so much higher than Bamboo had assumed at £303. In addition, his credit 
commitments were around £600 a month as Mr M had recently taken out another loan. So 
as Bamboo can see, had it carried out proportionate checks it would have realised Mr M did 
not have the disposable income needed to sustainably repay loan 1.
It follows I find Bamboo was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr M. 
Loans 2 and 3
Given what Bamboo ought to have learnt at the time of loan 1, it follows I would not expect it 
to lend to Mr M unless it had satisfied itself at the time of any new application that he was 
financially stable and any new debt would be affordable based on his actual financial 
position. At the time of loan 2, had it carried out proportionate checks, it would have seen 
that the level of gambling that was in evidence at the time of loan 1 had increased. Mr M was 
now spending around 30% of his income on gambling transactions. And by the time Mr M 
applied for the third loan his spend on gambling had increased threefold and was around 
85% of his income. So better checks would have shown Bamboo that Mr M was clearly 
having problems managing his money and there was a high risk would be unable to repay 
either loan without suffering adverse financial consequences.
It follows I find Bamboo was also wrong to give loans 2 and 3 to Mr M.
I have thought carefully about Bamboos submission setting out why it felt it was fair to lend 
to Mr M based on his credit profile, debt level and the results of its affordability assessment. 
But I remain of the view this is a case where the lender missed signs of potential money 
pressure at the time of loan 1 that meant further checks were needed. And had they been 
carried out I think Bamboo, as a responsible lender, would have realised Mr M could not 
sustainably afford the loans. 
I have seen no evidence that Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on loans that shouldnt
have been provided to him. Bamboo must put this right.
It should:
Refund all interest and charges Mr M paid on all three loans.
As reworking Mr Ms loan accounts in this way will result in him having effectively 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Bamboo should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from this interest. Bamboo should give
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ms complaint. Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, must put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman