DRN-3809950
The complaint
Mr P and Mr T, as trustees of a Small Self-Administered Pension Scheme (SSAS), complain 
that Embark Investment Services Limited trading as Stocktrade provided an incorrect 
address on its website causing the investment of a pension contribution to be delayed.
What happened
Mr P and Mr T are the trustees (the Trustees) of a SSAS. The SSAS has an account on the 
Stocktrade platform. Mr P says that he posted a pension contribution, a cheque for 
£11,000, to Stocktrade using the address advertised on its website. He sent the payment 
on 25 May 2021. When he noticed that the payment had not been credited to the SSAS 
account, he contacted Stocktrade on 3 June. He says it told him its address had changed 
fifteen months earlier - but it confirmed that the letter should be redirected to its current 
address.
On 11 June 2021 the letter enclosing the cheque was returned to Mr P marked addressee 
gone away. Mr P issued a new cheque payment on 15 June 2021 and posted it by 
recorded delivery to the alternative address provided by Stocktrade. The letter was 
received by Stocktrade on 16 June 2021 and logged on its systems a few days later  21 
June 2021. The Trustees invested the contribution on 24 June after the cheque cleared.
Mr P says that as a result of the incorrect address displayed by Stocktrade on its website 
the SSAS has incurred a financial loss of around £750. He says that the price of the units in 
the fund he wanted to purchase (the X fund) increased in the period between 4 June 2021, 
which was when he says the original cheque wouldve cleared and 24 June 2021, which 
was when he was able to purchase the units. He complained to Stocktrade.
Stocktrade investigated his complaint. It said it had no record of having received his letter 
dated 25 May 2021. It acknowledged it had supplied an incorrect address and it offered to 
pay the SSAS £150 as a gesture of goodwill for the inconvenience caused. It also said it 
would consider the claim for financial loss but it would require the SSAS to provide 
evidence that it would have traded in the way that it said. Mr P didnt agree. He referred his 
complaint to our service.
Both of the Trustees consented to our service looking into the complaint. Our investigator 
initially said that Stocktrade wasnt responsible for the letter not having been redirected by 
Royal Mail to the correct address. She said that Stocktrade had asked for evidence of how 
the Trustees wouldve invested the funds had the cheque been received  but there was no 
specific evidence to support what theyd said. She thought £150 was fair and reasonable 
for the inconvenience the Trustees had experienced.
The Trustees did not agree. They said that Stocktrade had acknowledged it was 
responsible for the incorrect address on its website and that this error had caused undue 
delay. The Trustees also said that it wasnt possible to prove what they wouldve done had 
the cheque been received. But, they pointed out that the SSAS already held units in the X 
fund and when the second cheque was received the Trustees had proceeded to purchase 
units in that fund.
Our investigator looked at everything again. She said she now accepted that Stocktrades 
error had caused the delay in allowing the cheque to be lodged to the account. But she said 
there was no specific evidence of what the Trustees would have done. She thought 
Stocktrade should complete a loss calculation for the period between shortly after 25 May 
2021 and 24 June 2021 using the existing funds within the SSAS portfolio as a benchmark.
Stocktrade responded to say that the existing portfolio had no relevance to how the 
Trustees would have invested at the time.
The Trustees also responded. They reiterated that it was impossible to provide indisputable 
evidence of how they intended to invest. They thought there was enough information 
provided to indicate they would have purchased units in the X fund.
Because neither the Trustees nor Stocktrade agreed with what our investigator said, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that there is no dispute that Stocktrade provided an incorrect address 
on its website and it has acknowledged that this error caused a delay in the 
payment of the contribution of £11,000 into the account. Stocktrade said in its 
response dated 19 August 2021:
I would like to highlight that our records have confirmed that we supplied 
you with the incorrect mailing address and this error caused an undue delay 
in the payment of the cheque into your Stocktrade account.
The aim of this Service is to put the Trustees as much as possible back into
the position they likely would be in now if the delay had not happened. So I first 
considered when the monies could have been invested without the delay. The 
second cheque was posted on 15 June, received by Stocktrade on 16 June, lodged 
to the account on 21 June 2021 and available for investment on 24 June 2021. I 
think its reasonable to apply the same timelines to the first cheque, which means it 
would have been available for investment on 4 June 2021. That means the delay 
period is from 4 June 2021 to 24 June 2021.
I then considered how the Trustees would have likely acted on 4 June if the money 
had been available for investment then. Given that they invested very shortly after 
the funds were available on their account I think its more likely than not the same 
would have happened three weeks earlier.
It isnt possible to be absolutely certain how the Trustees would have invested. So 
Ive made my provisional decision based on what I think most likely would have 
happened on a balance of probabilities. When making investment decisions its 
likely that the Trustees would have taken various factors into account, including for example their investment strategy and policy, the make-up of their existing portfolio 
and market prices at the time. I can see that the Trustees already held units in the X 
fund. When they made the investment on 24 June (after a delay of three weeks ) 
they invested in the X fund and theyve told us that that was always their intention.
Having thought about everything Im persuaded, on balance, there are enough 
indicators to be reasonably satisfied that if the investment had been made on 4 
June, the Trustees would have made the same investment decision as they did on 
24 June and invested the full amount in the X fund.
Putting things right
Having considered everything and mindful, as mentioned above, that the aim of our 
Service is to try to put the Trustees back into the position they wouldve been in had 
it not been for Stocktrades error, Ive provisionally decided it is fair and reasonable 
to require Stocktrade to calculate the additional units in the X fund the Trustees 
could have acquired if their investment had been able to proceed on 4 June 2021. It 
should then make arrangements to add those additional units to the Trustees 
investment portfolio.
Ive also thought about the inconvenience that the Trustees have been caused as a 
result of what happened. Stocktrade has already acknowledged the inconvenience 
caused and it has corrected the error on its website. So, having thought about 
everything I think its offer to pay £150 by way of compensation for inconvenience is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint about Embark Investment Services Limited trading as Stocktrade.
I intend to require it to take the following action:
- Calculate the number of additional units in the X fund which the Trustees 
could have purchased (based on an investment of £11,000) on 4 June 2021 
as compared to what they were able to purchase on 24 June 2021 and add 
these additional units to the Trustees investment portfolio; and
- Pay the Trustees £150 by way of compensation for the inconvenience they 
experienced as a result of what happened.
Stocktrade agreed with my provisional decision and provided details of the number of units 
in the X fund which it would purchase and allocate to the Trustees investment portfolio. It 
based this on the actual amount of the investment which had been made on 4 June 2021 
which was £10,945.27. 
The Trustees also responded to my provisional decision. They accepted the provisional 
decision and have subsequently confirmed the information provided by Stocktrade about the 
additional number of units to be allocated to their portfolio.
So, I now need to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses to my provisional decision. I havent received any new or 
further information. So, theres nothing that persuades me to change my view, or the 
reasons for my view as set out in my provisional decision. 
The Trustees have accepted that the amount of their actual investment in the X fund on 4 
June 2021 cost £10,945.27 and not £11,000. For that reason, I have amended the amount of 
the investment in my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about Embark Investment Services 
Limited trading as Stocktrade.
I now require it to take the following action:
- Calculate the number of additional units in the X fund which the Trustees could have 
purchased (based on an investment of £10,945.27) on 4 June 2021 as compared to 
what they were able to purchase on 24 June 2021 and add these additional units to 
the Trustees investment portfolio; and
- Pay the Trustees £150 by way of compensation for the inconvenience they 
experienced as a result of what happened.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman