DRN-1678547
 
The complaint
Mrs A says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 2002 Mrs A bought a PPI policy at the same time as she applied for a mortgage in one of 
the banks branches. The policy gave her protection against accident, sickness and 
unemployment. She paid a monthly amount for it. When Mrs A took out a further advance in 
2003 she increased the cover on her PPI policy to protect her additional borrowing as well.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs A disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to our adjudicators view Mrs A said she feels her side in this case hasn't been 
given any credence. I have weighed up the available evidence from both sides, and as some 
of it is incomplete or contradictory my decision is based on the balance of probabilities  in 
other words, on what I consider is most likely given the evidence we do have and what we 
know about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time. As an independent and impartial organisation 
we dont act on behalf of either consumer or banks - theres no benefit for us to find in the 
favour of one party over the other.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs A says she felt pressured and obliged to take out the PPI. Lloyds says its more likely 
than not the optional nature was verbally explained in good time before the sales were 
concluded. I cant know what was said in the meetings, so I dont know how the PPI was 
presented to Mrs A. But on the 2002 mortgage application form she indicated that 
she wanted PPI, and the option to decline it was set out with equal prominence. And Mrs A 
then signed a separate PPI application form and direct debit mandate. Theres nothing on 
the forms that I think could reasonably have led Mrs A to believe the PPI was mandatory.
In 2003 Mrs A neither selected nor declined PPI on the loan application form - but the form 
did show the cover was optional. She did however sign a separate PPI application form, 
showing that she wanted her level of cover to increase to protect both the existing mortgage 
and her new loan. I've thought carefully about Mrs A's comments that she felt pressured to 
agree, but I can't find enough other evidence to support her claim.
Overall, in both years I think Lloyds make it clear the PPI was optional and Mrs A opted to 
take it out. Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs A so it had to make sure it was right for her. Mrs A feels 
strongly it wasn't necessary for her. She's told us her circumstances didn't change 
significantly between 2002 and 2003. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances I think it 
was suitable. Mrs A says she was entitled to six months' full pay and six months' half pay if 
she was sick. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to her work benefits and for up to 
12 months for each successful accident and sickness claim. It also gave up to 12 months 
redundancy cover. Mrs A says she also had some savings, but the PPI would have allowed 
her to use these to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact for 
her future needs. Mrs A had borrowed a large sum over a long period secured on her home, 
that she further increased in 2003. Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage 
payments, I think the cover wouldve been useful for Mrs A if she was sick, had an accident 
or lost her job.
Its possible that Lloyds didnt give Mrs A all the information she needed before she decided 
to buy PPI. I dont know when it made the cost clear, but the PPI was competitively priced 
and apparently affordable. And I dont know that it pointed out the main things the PPI didnt 
cover. But Mrs A doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things (such as the 
type of employment contract or any pre-existing medical conditions). So I dont think better 
information wouldve changed her decisions.
It follows I dont think Mrs A was mis-sold PPI. Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs 
to give Mrs A any of the commission she paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new 
rules and guidance dont apply to certain types of mortgage agreement  including a 
regulated mortgage. As Mrs As mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 
2008 they dont apply. So Lloyd doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mrs A paid for 
the PPI she had with that mortgage.
My final decision
My decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman