DRN-1884424
The complaint
The estate of Mrs H complains that Vitality Health Limited declined a claim she made on Mr 
Hs private medical insurance policy. Mr H is also the representative of the estate of the late 
Mrs H. 
What happened
Mr H transferred his private medical insurance policy over to Vitality. The policy also 
provided cover for Mr Hs late wife and children. 
The policy was sold on 20 December 2018. On this day Mrs H was experiencing stomach 
discomfort and bloating, so she contacted her GP surgery in the morning and booked a next 
day appointment. 
Mrs H had been experiencing mild and vague abdominal discomfort from September 2018. 
Mr H has said she didnt seek any medical advice at this time because they believed the 
stomach discomfort was stress related.  
On 21 December Mrs H saw the nurse and was given medication for irritable bowel 
syndrome. She saw her GP again on 4 January and her blood tests detected elevated 
platelets. Then on 14 January 2019 Mrs H was admitted to hospital with severe stomach 
pain. Unfortunately, this soon led to a diagnosis of peritoneal cancer. 
A subsequent claim was submitted and following a review of Mrs Hs medical history Vitality 
declined the claim. It said Mrs H had symptoms that should have been disclosed when the 
policy was taken out so it voided the policy and refunded the premiums.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt think the business had acted 
unfairly in declining the claim. Sadly, Mrs H then passed away. 
Mr H confirmed he wanted to continue to pursue the complaint on behalf of Mrs Hs estate, 
so we had to establish if we had legal authority to continue without a grant of probate. After 
careful consideration we were satisfied Mr H was eligible to bring the complaint as a 
representative of Mrs Hs estate. 
As Mrs Hs estate disagreed with the investigators outcome against Vitality, the case has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to hear of Mrs Hs passing and how this claim has affected Mr H. Hes told 
us how distressing its been to have to deal with this and its clear how very difficult this has 
all been for him. But what I need to consider is whether Vitality did anything wrong when it 
declined the claim and while Im sorry to bring Mr H what I know will be disappointing news I 
dont believe it did. Ill explain why I think that.
Vitality says Mr and Mrs H incorrectly answered medical questions when they brought the 
policy. This means the laws set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant and I think its fair and reasonable to 
apply these principles to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs claim.
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying 
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to misrepresent 
facts which an insurer has asked about. The standard of care required is that of a 
reasonable consumer. 
One of the factors to be considered when deciding whether a consumer has taken 
reasonable care is how clear and specific the questions asked by the
insurer were. Mr and Mrs H were asked several questions about their medical history which 
included;
Are any applicants currently:
Awaiting any medical test results, follow-up consultations, treatment or 
investigations?
Experiencing symptoms of any health problems (or had symptoms in the last three 
months), whether or not medical advice has been sought)?
In answer to these questions Mr and Mrs H responded no. But Vitality says they shouldve 
told them about Mrs Hs stomach discomfort and the doctors appointment booked for the 
following day. 
In deciding whether I think Mr H took reasonable care in answering this question, Ive 
listened to the sales call and reviewed the medical evidence. 
I think its important to state - I accept Mr and Mrs H didnt deliberately fail to disclose Mrs 
Hs stomach pain symptoms. Having listened to the sales call Im satisfied they were both 
intending to be upfront and open about their medical histories and that of their children. Im 
of the opinion their failure to disclose Mrs Hs symptoms was careless and incredibly 
unfortunate, rather than deliberate. 
But this doesnt mean Vitality was unreasonable in turning down the claim.
The medical evidence from Mrs Hs GP says she began to experience mild and vague 
abdominal symptoms in September 2018. And she had persistent abdominal bloating pain 
from mid-December. Mrs Hs hospital admittance notes from 14 January also state she had 
been suffering with on and off abdominal pain since the first week in December. As such I 
dont think it is unreasonable for Vitality to conclude Mrs H was displaying symptoms of 
stomach discomfort at the point of sale because that is what the medical evidence says. So I 
dont think Vitality have been unfair in expecting this to have been declared.
Weve been provided with a letter from Mrs Hs consultant dated 12 March 2019 which says 
its not unreasonable to accept Mrs H was symptom free on 20 December 2018 when the 
policy was taken out. I have given the consultants letter careful consideration; however, the 
consultant didnt review Mrs H until early February 2019 so the opinion isnt based on an 
assessment of her conducted on or around the time the policy was taken out. I have taken 
into account his professional medical opinion that peritoneal cancer can lay dormant and 
then become quite rapid. But based on the medical appointment booked for stomach discomfort on the day the policy was sold, I dont think its unfair for Vitality to conclude Mrs 
Hs stomach symptoms were related to her later diagnosis of peritoneal cancer.
In addition, I note the GP statement on the claim form states there is no indication Mrs H 
shouldve been aware her symptoms were potentially serious at the time of sale. But the 
clear question asked by Vitality wasnt about any potential serious health conditions  it was 
symptoms of any health condition.  Mrs H booked a GP appointment due to the symptoms 
she was experiencing so its reasonable for the business to conclude it shouldve been 
disclosed. 
Its clear in Mrs Hs medical notes that at the time of sale she genuinely thought she was 
suffering from irritable bowel syndrome. But even if Mrs H had disclosed these symptoms 
and Vitality had provided cover based on an IBS diagnosis, its most likely it wouldve 
excluded any conditions relating to the stomach pain. So Mrs Hs treatment for peritoneal 
cancer wouldnt have been covered.
Having taken all of the above into account, I dont think it was unreasonable for Vitality to
conclude Mr and Mrs H should have disclosed information about her abdominal pain when 
answering the questions, Ive set out above. Therefore, I think they made a qualifying 
misrepresentation under CIDRA. So the business is entitled to avoid the policy, decline all 
claims and refund the premiums.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but Im satisfied Vitality have acted fairly.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and the 
estate of Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman