DRN-4194395
The complaint
K and Mr Bs complaint is about an After the Event (ATE) Insurance policy taken out for Mr 
Bs benefit by his former Solicitors with Allianz Insurance Plc.
K and Mr B say the ATE policy should have ended when his Solicitors ceased acting for him 
and that Allianz wasnt entitled to claim the policy premium from him through his Solicitors.
What happened
Mr B instructed Solicitors to pursue a clinical negligence claim on his behalf. The Solicitors 
took on the instruction on a no win no fee Conditional Fee Arrangement (CFA). In doing so 
they took out an ATE policy on his behalf from Allianz to protect him in the event that he 
became liable to pay the other partys costs and to cover any disbursements they incurred if 
this happened.
There came a time in the litigation where the Solicitors terminated their retainer with Mr B. 
They applied to the Court to come off record to stop acting for him. Mr B then went on to 
pursue his claim himself without representation and was successful at trial. As a 
consequence of this, costs were awarded against the other party after his Solicitors 
submitted an application for these. In particular, Mr B was successful in obtaining an Order 
for both his Solicitors costs and the ATE premium, which the Solicitors included in their 
claim. The other party paid Mr B the amount he was awarded both in respect of costs and 
the ATE premium, but Mr B didnt pass this onto the Solicitors or Allianz.
Because Mr B refused to pass on the amounts hed recovered, the Solicitors sought 
enforcement of the amount that was due to them and Allianz. They petitioned for Mr Bs 
bankruptcy. He was eventually made bankrupt. To date, I havent seen anything that 
suggests the Solicitors were able to recover their costs from Mr B nor that the ATE premium 
was either paid to Allianz or returned to the other party in the litigation.
Mr Bs complaint is that Allianz wasnt entitled to their policy premium as the policy had come 
to an end when his Solicitors stopped acting for him. Hes made a number of other 
submissions about how the claim for the policy premium was presented by his former 
Solicitors but in summary, he says that the claim for the policy premium resulted in the 
considerable financial hardship hes experiencing and that this shouldnt have happened. 
Allianz has since waived its entitlement to the policy premium. Mr B says this meant he 
should never have been pursued for the policy premium to start with.
Our investigator considered K and Mr Bs complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be 
upheld. Mr B doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding K and Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
As Allianz has explained, the ATE policy ended when the CFA ended so although Mr B has 
said that Allianz were carrying on a policy that should have ended a number of years before, 
I dont agree that was the case. 
What Allianz did, through his Solicitors, was claim for their policy premium when Mr B was 
successful against his opponent at trial. The terms of the ATE entitled Allianz to do this and 
the policy premium was recoverable from the other party at that point, not Mr B. So, I dont 
think anything untoward happened by this claim being made on Allianz behalf.
Mr B has referred to false copies of the policy premiums being produced in the litigation and 
that Allianz were responsible for this. But from what Ive seen the item the Solicitors 
produced was a reprint of evidence of the policy being in place previously rather than 
evidence that there was ongoing cover. 
As I understand it, Mr Bs complaint is that Allianz should never have claimed their policy 
premium from him in the enforcement proceedings that followed because they later said they 
were going to waive their entitlement to it. In doing so Mr B says that this claim made the 
difference between whether he stayed solvent or was made bankrupt. 
Having reviewed the timeline of this complaint, it seems that when Allianz waived their 
entitlement to this premium, this was a number of years after the underlying litigation and 
following Mr Bs recovery of the policy premium from the other party. The conclusion theyd 
reached at that point was that as the premium hadnt been repaid to them- despite 
enforcement action- there were no realistic prospects of it being recovered, so they wrote it 
off. That doesnt mean they werent entitled to it to start with or that Mr B shouldnt have 
been pursued for this as well as his Solicitors costs by his former Solicitors. And in any 
event the cost of the policy premium itself was a small proportion of the overall sum being 
claimed by the Solicitors. It constituted almost £20,000 of a £77,500 pay out Mr B received in 
respect of costs and the premium itself. So, I cant see that it made a material difference to 
Mr Bs personal circumstances and the outcome of the bankruptcy petition against him. And 
even if it had, thats not something Allianz were wrong to pursue as Mr B should have 
passed on the sums he recovered in respect of the policy premium to Allianz to prevent 
being made bankrupt because Allianz were entitled to this amount, which Mr B had 
recovered and retained.
Whilst Im sorry to hear about Mr Bs personal circumstances and in particular his state of 
health, it seems to me that the outcome of the proceedings against him were entirely as a 
result of his failure to pass on amounts hed recovered in favour of both Allianz and his 
Solicitors that he wasnt entitled to retain. Despite that Allianz have said they wont continue 
to pursue him for this and that they have now waived the amount due to them in respect of 
this premium. They didnt need to do this, but theyve taken a commercial decision to do so 
in light of the time and cost involved in pursuing Mr B further and the fact that its unlikely 
theyll recover anything from him. I think thats more than reasonable in the circumstancesMy final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold K and Mr Bs complaint against Allianz 
Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman