DRN-1264320
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs F say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them the PPI.
What happened
In 1995 Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage with Lloyds and at that time they were sold a PPI 
policy. The policy cost £22.05 a month and protected their mortgage repayments if Mr F was 
unable to work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
This PPI sale took place a long time ago, so its not that surprising that the paperwork 
completed then isnt still available. Theres no record of what was said to Mr and Mrs F at the 
time. And, perhaps not surprisingly, Mr and Mrs F dont seem to have a strong recollection of 
the sale.
In these circumstances, I need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened, based 
on the very limited information available, including what I know about similar sales by Lloyds 
at around this time.
Lloyds have treated this as an advised sale and as the PPI was attached to a mortgage I 
think this is most likely to have been the case. And Ive no real reason to think that Lloyds 
departed from its normal practice of making it clear that the PPI was optional. So I think its 
most likely that Mr and Mrs F decided to take out the policy knowing that they could choose 
not to do so.
As this was an advised sale, Lloyds needed to ensure that the PPI policy was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs F. I dont know how it did this. But from what I know about Mr and Mrs Fs 
circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say 
this because:
Mr F appears to have been eligible for the policy and doesnt seem to have been 
affected by any of its main exclusions and limitations. Mr and Mrs F say that the 
policy wasnt suitable because Mr F was self-employed. But from what I know about 
mortgage PPI policies sold by Lloyds at around this time, I dont think that Mr Fs employment circumstances then would have made it particularly difficult for him to 
claim under the policy if he wasnt able to work.
 
Mr F wasnt eligible for sick pay and Mr and Mrs F say that, apart from Mrs Fs salary, 
they didnt have any other way of paying their mortgage if Mr F wasnt able to work. 
In any case, this policy would have paid out in addition to any other means available 
to them at the time. It would have paid out for up to twelve months if Mr F wasnt able 
to work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. And a mortgage is a big 
financial commitment  one where your home is potentially at risk if the monthly 
repayments cant be made. So I think that Mr and Mrs F would have valued the extra 
security that this policy gave them.
 
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs F. And as the 
premiums were paid monthly, it could have been cancelled by them if it no longer met 
their needs.
 
Lloyds also needed to give Mr and Mrs F enough clear information about the policy for them 
to decide if they wanted it. I think its possible that the information it gave them could have 
been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was 
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs F, I dont think that better information would have changed their 
minds about buying it. I think theyd still have thought that the policy provided useful cover at 
an affordable price.
So I dont think that Mr and Mrs F have lost out by anything that Lloyds may have done 
wrong when it sold them this PPI policy.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs F have said about why they still think the PPI 
was mis-sold. But this doesnt change my mind about not upholding their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding this complaint against 
Lloyds Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman