DRN-3015356
The complaint
Mr J complains that UK Insurance Limited, trading as Direct Line, (UKI) has refused his
claim for a cancelled trip under his travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr J took out an annual multi trip travel policy with UKI in June 2019, which provided cover
for trips that took place from 30 June 2019 until 29 June 2020.
In February 2020, Mr J booked flights for a business trip  he was due to travel in May 2020.
In March 2020, following the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advising against all
but essential travel abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the business trip was cancelled
and so Mr J cancelled his flights.
The travel provider didnt provide a refund for the unused flights but did agree to provide a
credit note for the cost of the ticket. This credit note was due to expire in February 2021. But
Mr J said the credit note was of no use to him and so he submitted a claim for the cost of the
cancelled flight to UKI.
UKI considered his claim but told Mr J that it didnt provide cover for recoverable expenses
and it considered the credit note to be a recovered cost. So UKI declined his claim.
Unhappy with this response, Mr J complained to UKI and brought his complaint to this
service. Our investigator looked into this matter but said she didnt think UKI had to do
anything more. She found that the policy did exclude claims for recoverable costs and, as
the costs had been reimbursed in the form of a voucher, she said UKI didnt have to meet
these costs. She also said that Mr J cancelled his trip in March 2020 but if he has waited
until nearer the time the flight may have been cancelled anyway and he would have received
a full refund  therefore meaning he wouldnt have needed to make an insurance claim.
Mr J disagreed with our investigators view. He said that the trip was for business purposes
and as it was not being rescheduled, he had no reason to use the credit voucher. In addition,
he also pointed out that the terms of the voucher meant that he would only be able to use
them with that airline  and they have limited numbers of flights available only to one specific
country. As this was not a main holiday destination, he said he wouldnt be travelling there
and so wouldnt be able to use the voucher. As no agreement could be reached, the matter
was passed to me to decide. 
In July 2021, I issued my provisional decision. In it I said the following:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Js complaint.
The policy Mr J took out includes terms and conditions relating to the cover provided. The
relevant parts are as follows:
Youre covered for
Cancellation of a journey
We will pay up to £5,000 for each insured person for costs that you have paid or legally
have to pay if you have to cancel your trip
Reasons for cancellation
We will provide this cover if you have to cancel your trip for any of these reasons
8 FCO travel advice: Foreign & Commonwealth Office advice against All travel or All but
essential travel to your intended destination comes into force after the start date or renewal
date of this insurance, or the date when you booked your trip, whichever is later and you
cancel your trip in the 28 days before your departure.
Specific exclusions
1. Recoverable expenses
Any expenses that you can recover from elsewhere.
Mr Js business trip was due to take place in May 2020. This was cancelled in March 2020
as a result of the change in FCO advice at that time which advised against all but essential
travel. The policy wording states it will only cover claims for this reason if the trip is cancelled
within 28 days of the departure date  Mr J cancelled his trip nearly two months before it was
due to start. So, based strictly on the policy terms and conditions, Mr Js claim isnt covered.
But I can depart from a strict application of the policy terms if I think it produces an unfair
result.
In this case, I dont think it makes a difference whether Mr J cancelled the trip within the 28
days of departure or not. The FCO advice against non-essential travel was still in place up
until the date of Mr Js intended travel dates and so if he had waited until he was within the
relevant timeframe, UKI would have met the claim. In addition, I havent seen any evidence
that his flight was in fact cancelled by the airline. The majority of flights that were cancelled
during this time were to tourist areas  Mr J was travelling on a scheduled flight to an area
which isnt widely known as a main holiday route and therefore Im not persuaded that there
is enough evidence to say its likely that Mr Js flight would have been cancelled if he had
waited until 28 days before the trip. So, I dont think it is fair to decline the claim for this
reason.
Turning to the costs itself, UKI has said that, as Mr J had been given a credit note, the cost
was recoverable  and therefore not covered by the policy. But Mr J said he was only
travelling on business and his business trip was not being rescheduled. And the credit 
voucher was not only for a limited time period but also to a limited area. I can see both points
of view here. But what is important is whether the option available to Mr J was fair and gave
him a reasonable opportunity to recover his loss. Ive thought about this point carefully, but
Im not persuaded that in the specific and unusual circumstances relating to Mr Js case it
would be fair to consider this as a recoverable loss. Ill explain why.
As Ive already mentioned, Mr Js trip was to a destination that wouldnt normally be
associated with normal holiday or tourist travel. The credit note offered to Mr J was only for
use with one airline, and this airline appears to only travel to one destination from the UK.
The timeframe for use of the credit voucher was one year from the date of the cancellation 
at this point it isnt known if the airline would be willing to extend this timeframe, although
Mr J has attempted to obtain this information from both the airline and the agent he booked
through without success. But I dont think the timeframe matters.
Mr J has explained the type of work that he does and why this trip was not going to be
rescheduled. Based on what Ive been told, Im persuaded that it is unlikely Mr J would have
any need to travel to this destination in the near future, even if an extension to the voucher
was agreed. And so, Im satisfied that the terms of the voucher were restrictive and thereforeI dont think its fair and reasonable to consider the voucher as meaning he recovered his
costs from the airline directly. Im therefore of the opinion that it would be fair and reasonable
for UKI to pay Mr Js claim.
Mr J responded to the provisional decision to confirm he had no further comments. UKI 
responded and said that it was very unclear if the flight would have gone ahead  it provided 
an article from a travel publication which stated that the majority of international services for 
this airline were suspended until the end of May 2020. UKI thinks that, if Mr J hadnt 
cancelled so early, it is likely he would have been entitled to a refund of his ticket directly 
from the airline and therefore wouldnt have needed to make an insurance claim. UKI also 
said, irrespective of the above, a credit note with a reasonable validity period was offered 
and it questioned the restrictive nature of the credit, asking if there was evidence in support 
of this only being available for use on the route Mr J was due to take.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank UKI for the additional comments provided. Ive thought very carefully about 
its response to my provisional decision. But these points dont persuade me to alter my 
outcome. Ill explain why.
UKI provided information which suggested that the airline Mr J was due to travel with had 
suspended the majority of its international services until the end of May 2020  Mr J was due 
to travel in May 2020. So, I can understand why UKI thinks the airline would have cancelled 
the flight if Mr J hadnt cancelled as early as he did, which was outside of the 28 days prior to 
travel as required by the policy. But I note that this publication confirms there were 
exceptions to the suspension, and Mr J was due to travel on one of the routes that was part 
of this exception. Based on this, there is still not enough evidence that Mr Js flight would 
have been cancelled by the airline if he had waited until 28 days before the trip. So, I dont 
think it is fair to decline the claim for this reason.
Turning now to the credit note issued to Mr J, Ive seen the documentation provided by UKI 
which seems to suggest that the airline has extended its voucher terms until 2022. But as 
explained in the provisional decision, I dont think the timeframe for the voucher usage is 
relevant in this particular case. I say this because, whilst the airline Mr J held his ticket with 
does travel to many destinations around the world, it does appear that the flights out of the 
UK are to one, long haul destination not usually associated with normal holiday or tourist 
travel. As Mr J was initially travelling on business, and he has confirmed why this trip will not 
be rescheduled, the likelihood of Mr J having any need to travel to this destination, or 
onward from this destination, in the near future would seem to me to be very low. Therefore, 
based on the specific circumstances of Mr J, I think the credit note is restrictive. 
Putting things right
I require UK Insurance Limited to do the following:
pay the claim, taking into account any deductions for policy excesses as applicable;
pay simple interest at 8% a year, from the date of the claim until the date of 
settlement.
If UK Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It should also give
him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue& Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I uphold this complaint.
UK Insurance Limited, trading as Direct Line, needs to put things right as detailed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman