DRN-3825072
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy he received a message from MBNA Limited to say his credit card payment 
was overdue when it wasnt. Hes also unhappy they referred to him incorrectly in their final 
response.
What happened
On 7 October 2022 MBNA sent an email to Mr T which was headed Your payment is 
overdue. This came as a surprise to Mr T as hed made a payment at the end of September. 
Alerted by the email he checked his bank and his MBNA account and could see a payment 
had been made.
He complained to MBNA about this the same day and was looking for compensation for 
them to resolve things. They responded on 14 October 2022 confirming his account had 
updated, meaning there was no payment due until November. They also highlighted that 
theyd sent an email on 29 September confirming the payment had been received and 
apologised for the distress and inconvenience caused.
There was a mistake as theyd referenced an incorrect name for Mr T when addressing the 
letter. They later apologised for this mistake when it was brought to their attention.
Mr T brought his concerns to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she 
felt an apology was enough to put things right. As Mr T remains unhappy its been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I understand this will be 
disappointing for Mr T but Ive explained my reasoning below.
The email MBNA sent to Mr T was headed like he was overdue on paying his credit card. 
However, the email itself said:
Your payment for credit card ending xxx was due on 03/10/22. If youve already paid 
please ignore this email as your balance will update soon. If its overdue please make a 
payment as soon as you can to bring your account up to date and avoid any charges.
I understand Mr T would have been alarmed to see the subject title as he had in fact made a 
payment around a week earlier. But the content of the email explained that if a payment had 
been made already, the email could be disregarded. Mr T had checked his account to 
ensure the payment had been made so had satisfied himself he wasnt overdue.
At the time Mr T made his payment, MBNA had sent a text acknowledging it. Based on this, I 
think it was clear Mr T could disregard the email as he had made a payment already and had 
confirmation it had gone through. 
MBNA have apologised for the distress and inconvenience their email caused which I think 
is reasonable. They had caveated the email in relation to payments already being made and 
Mr T was quickly able to confirm the account wasnt in arrears.
I appreciate Mr T would like to know why it was sent, especially as he said he always pays 
on time and had paid around a week earlier. MBNA havent provided that information, but 
these messages are generally sent as a reminder and are intended to help customers keep 
on top of their accounts. I know Mr T has indicated this wasnt necessary for him, but thats 
why the emails are caveated to cover when payments are made so they can also be 
disregarded.
When responding to Mr Ts complaint, MBNA incorrectly addressed the letter using the 
wrong name. I understand why Mr T felt concerned for his data. However, MBNA explained 
it was a typing error and not a system error and there had been no breach of his data. I can 
see other correspondence has been addressed to him correctly and the system information 
provided also reflects his correct name, so Im satisfied it was human error. The letter has 
gone directly to Mr T, and I cant see anything has happened to highlight his data has been 
breached.  
I can understand why Mr T is upset but mistakes do happen and in this case it hasnt had a 
significant impact so overall I think the apology MBNA has given is fair resolution to the 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman