DRN-2443037
The complaint
Mrs D has complained about the service she received from Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) 
after her boiler developed a fault. 
What happened
Mrs D has had a HomeServe home emergency policy with Aviva for a number of years. She 
contacted it on 16 December 2019 because of falling pressure from her boiler. Avivas 
engineer said the boiler needed a new pump. 
According to Avivas records, the engineer told Mrs D that hed look into the cost of a new 
pump, and if it was under £50, hed be back the next day to install a new one. If the cost was 
more, hed have to discuss this internally.
Aviva later contacted Mrs D to tell her that it couldnt supply a new pump and that the boiler 
was beyond economic repair. The engineer had reported that the cylinder was corroded and 
that if a new pump were to be installed without a new cylinder, there would be a risk of 
damage to Mrs Ds property. The cost of a new cylinder was £4,395.82. Mrs D would need a 
new boiler which Aviva said it would supply and install, but Mrs D would have to pay for the 
cost of installation.
Mrs D was therefore left without hot water or heating, with the potential that this would 
remain the case over the Christmas period when she would have children and vulnerable 
adults staying. Aviva invited her to bring in her own engineer for a second opinion as to 
whether a new pump could be installed as a temporary measure. Mr D arranged for another 
engineer to fit a new pump at a cost of £330.58 on 18 December 2019.
Mrs D then continued to press Aviva for a replacement boiler. She says that shouldve been 
treated as an emergency, yet it took many hours and over 13 telephone calls and emails 
before Aviva sent a surveyor to her property to provide a quote for a new boiler on 3 January 
2020. A new boiler was fitted on 9 January. She maintains that for the poor service and lack 
of communication she received Aviva should pay for the installation of her new boiler. 
Aviva acknowledged that there had been failings on its part. In particular it accepted that it 
couldve done what the third-party engineer did, and fit a new pump, so it has reimbursed the 
cost of this to Mrs D.  It also paid Mrs D £200 compensation for the inconvenience and upset 
caused by the failings in the service she received. It has subsequently offered to pay a 
further £150 compensation, making a total of £350 in addition to the cost of the new pump, 
but it didnt consider that this should extend to paying for the installation of a new boiler.
As Mrs D wasnt satisfied with Avivas attempt to resolve her complaint, she brought it to this 
service. Our investigators view was that Aviva had acted reasonably in the circumstances 
and that it wouldnt be reasonable to require it to reimburse Mrs D for the installation cost of 
her new boiler.
Mrs D doesnt accept our investigators view and has asked that her complaint be 
considered by an ombudsman, so its been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold Mrs Ds complain and Ill explain why.
I should start by saying that I appreciate the frustration and upset that Mrs D wouldve 
experienced when she was left without a working boiler on 16 December 2019 with 
Christmas approaching, and facing the possibility that the boiler issue would not be resolved 
quickly because of Avivas view that it couldnt just replace the pump. So for a short time 
there was the possibility that the family would still be without heating and with only an 
immersion heater that was not great over the Christmas period. Aviva offered to provide 
temporary heaters but this offer wasnt accepted.
However a third party engineer employed by Mr D was able to do what Aviva was unwilling 
to do, and fit a new pump as a temporary measure. Heating and water were therefore 
restored on 18 December 2019.
Following that, Mrs D had considerable frustration in progressing the installation of a new 
boiler. There were a number of communication problems. Ive seen from Avivas notes that 
some of these were caused by complaints being logged in the names of both Mr D and Mrs 
D which resulted in confusion. Avivas customer relations team also had an incorrect phone 
number for Mrs D. Because of the service issues she had, Mrs D maintains that Aviva 
should pay for the cost of the installation of the new boiler.
Aviva has accepted that it couldve done things differently. It says it couldve replaced the 
pump as a temporary measure. As it didnt do so, it agreed to reimburse to Mrs D what shed 
had to pay the third-party engineer to supply and fit a new pump. And because it 
acknowledged that it couldve acted differently, and that the level of service it had provided 
hadnt been of the standard expected, its also offered to pay £350 compensation, but it 
doesnt agree to pay for the installation of the new boiler.
What I therefore need to consider is whether this is reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive considered the terms of Mrs Ds policy, and Im satisfied that in circumstances where a 
boiler is more than seven years old and is declared to be beyond economic repair the 
customer is required to pay the cost of installation. So had Avivas service been as Mrs D 
expected it to be, she wouldve had no basis for challenging this. I dont believe Mrs D to be 
challenging the fact that this is what the policy says. Instead shes arguing that she should 
receive more by way of compensation.
Awards of compensation that this service can make arent intended to fine or punish a 
business. This is the job of the businesss regulator. We can award fair compensation that's 
a proportionate reflection of the impact a business's actions (or inaction) has had on their 
customer. 
If we decide a business has acted unfairly, we consider the impact on their customer. For us 
to award compensation, we need to decide that the impact of a business's actions has 
been greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset, more than the inconvenience and 
upset that happens from time to time in our day-to-day lives and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. I consider that Mrs D has a legitimate complaint, and that it would be reasonable for Aviva to 
be required to pay some compensation. 
Ive taken account of all that Ms D has said about the service problems she says she had 
with Aviva. Ive also taken account of what shes said in response to our investigators view.  
She says that the poor service she received from Aviva couldve left her vulnerable family 
without heating and hot water over the Christmas period. But I consider that I can only award 
compensation for inconvenience that was actually suffered, not what might potentially have 
been suffered. To do otherwise would be to punish a business. The lack of heating and hot 
water was resolved on 18 December, which Aviva paid for, although I acknowledge that Mr 
and Mrs D had to arrange for this. So it could be argued that when heating and hot water 
had been restored with the fitting of a new pump, there was no longer any emergency, 
although I can appreciate that Mrs D wouldve been anxious to have a new boiler fitted.  
Aviva has acknowledged that its service to Mrs D wasnt satisfactory, has apologised, and 
has offered £350 compensation for the inconvenience that she and her family suffered. Mrs 
Ds annoyance and frustration are quite understandable, but I dont consider that Avivas 
poor service is likely to have had such a significant or lasting impact upon her as to justify 
more compensation than the £350 that Aviva has already offered. It is very much in line with 
what I would have awarded.
My conclusion is that I consider that the sum of £350 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances as compensation for the stress and inconvenience that Mrs D suffered 
because of the poor service that Aviva provided on this occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint and I dont require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything other than to pay Mrs D a further £150 compensation 
in addition to the £50 its already paid her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman