DRN-4328027
The complaint
Mr R complains that abrdn Financial Planning And Advice (abrdn) provided him with poor 
advice over whether he should transfer an existing pension plan, financially disadvantaging 
him. He wants compensation for his losses.
What happened
Mr R was an existing customer of abrdn with a Self-Invested Personal Pension Plan (SIPP) 
on which he received ongoing advice. He also had a s32 plan with Aviva which had arisen 
from a transfer from an occupational pension scheme. The s32 provided certain guarantees, 
referred to as safeguarded rights. He says he was in the process of retiring and the abrdn 
adviser encouraged him to review transferring the Aviva plan as returns would be better. 
But, once the review was completed, abrdn said the transfer shouldnt be made. Broadly 
because the Aviva plan offered more income security in retirement. 
Mr R questioned some of the assumptions used. abrdn issued a revised cashflow model but 
still said the transfer shouldnt proceed. It then issued an invoice for its advice fee of around 
£2,700. Mr R asked if this could be paid from his existing SIPP with abrdn or by credit card 
and was advised neither was an option. He then said he wasnt prepared to pay the invoice 
because he wasnt happy the way the exercise was carried out. 
He said the review was rushed. And contained various errors in the assumptions used but 
out of embarrassment abrdn wouldnt change its advice. He says as a result he had 
become stuck in annuity producing only £226.51 income a month, with only a small 
proportion increasing by inflation despite the Aviva plan being worth around £140,000. He 
said abrdn hadnt factored high inflation in its assumptions and cash flow forecasts. He said 
if the transfer to his existing abrdn SIPP had been recommended, he would have benefited 
from growth on the investment. And lower charges overall as these reduced once the total 
investment value was over a certain threshold. He said he was materially worse off as a 
result.
abrdn didnt uphold his complaint. It said its fees had been explained to Mr R and confirmed 
by email on 17 December 2021. Which stated they would be payable regardless of whether 
the advice is to retain or transfer your Aviva pension. The email also confirmed what its 
ongoing advice fees would be and that Mr R had agreed to both. It had also confirmed, in 
line with Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulations, that if following the review, its advice 
was not to transfer then it would not facilitate any transfer. It said the suitability report had 
also confirmed what its charges were. It said Mr Rs prime objective recorded on the fact find 
was to:
Maintain standard of living: this is essential and cannot be compromised 
It said not transferring the Aviva plan best achieved this objective for several reasons as had 
been set out in the suitability report. It said once Mr R queried some of the assumptions 
used, it had adjusted part of its analysis. But this was only one of the factors considered in 
giving its advice. And it still felt not transferring was the correct advice. And it wasnt involved 
in his decision to take the benefits in the form of tax-free cash and an annuity with Aviva.
Mr R referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but he didnt 
uphold it.
Our investigator said that abrdn confirmed the basis of its charges and that a transfer would 
only be facilitated if the advice provided was to transfer before it gave the advice. So, Mr R 
was aware of these details and that he'd had chance to challenge the basis of this if he 
wished. Our investigator said the cash flow modelling undertaken was only part of the 
analysis abrdn used in giving its advice. And he said the FCA conduct of business rules 
(COBS) said that keeping safeguarded rights will be in the best interests of most customers 
and the starting point was that a transfer would be unsuitable advice. Unless the adviser 
can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that it is in the clients best interests. 
He said Mr Rs key objective was to maintain his standard of living and abrdn had set out 
several reasons why not transferring the Aviva plan would better meet this objective. So, 
without conclusive reasons in support of transferring it couldnt make a recommendation to 
transfer under the FCAs guidelines. And he said it hadnt been involved in Mr Rs 
subsequent decision to take his benefits under the Aviva plan.
Mr R didnt agree. He said the abrdn adviser had encouraged him to transfer and had said 
there would be no problems in transferring. He disputed he was happy to pay ongoing fees 
for advice on his SIPP, as he was no longer contributing to it. He said he didnt think it was 
normal to receive ongoing advice once in drawdown. He said Standard Life didnt discuss 
the assumptions it used and hadnt allowed him the opportunity to rework those 
assumptions. He also disputed hed made plans to pay the fees from his SIPP or by credit 
card. Instead he said hed felt trapped before realising he could refer his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator said his view hadnt changed. He said it was clear from the email sent by 
abrdn on 17 December 2021 that fees were payable whether the advice was to transfer or 
not and Mr R still had the option not to proceed with the advice. He said that there was no 
record that Mr R intended to cancel ongoing services with abrdn, and that receiving advice 
during pension drawdown was just as important as taking advice before retirement. But as 
he could cancel the service at any time there was no evidence Mr R had been treated 
unfairly. He said the errors Mr R had pointed out in the assumptions initially used for the 
cash flow report had been updated. But it wasnt appropriate to otherwise adjust input figures 
or objectives to attempt to justify a transfer. 
Mr R said abrdns risk averse advice had left him trapped in a useless annuity with next to 
no inflation increase. 
As Mr R doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
The adviceI understand Mr Rs frustration, but I dont think he has been treated unfairly. abrdn certainly 
isnt responsible for him purchasing the annuity he did, it didnt arrange this for him. 
Safeguarded rights broadly offer some form of guarantee meaning the benefits available 
werent solely linked to the notional fund value. I dont have information on what benefits the 
Aviva plan guaranteed, or full details of the annuity Mr R did purchase. But because of the 
guarantee offered, the regulations require there to be clearly demonstrable advantages in 
transferring for the advice to do so to be regarded as suitable by the FCA. 
This sets a high bar and might well result in some caution being adopted by advisory firms. 
That, I think is the intention of the FCAs guidance. Mr R says he wasnt happy with the 
assumptions used in the cashflow modelling software. These were set out in the appendix of 
the report. As were caveats that actual future investment returns, inflation rates and so on 
could be different and therefore each outcome shown in your Plan is only one of many 
potential outcomes. 
The assumptions used appear quite typical for the time and some were required under FCA 
rules. Inflation in particular has been much higher than assumed since late 2020, when it 
rose sharply. A trend presumably evident when Mr R went ahead and secured his annuity 
during 2021. 
But Mr R doesnt appear to have challenged these core assumptions when he queried 
matters in January 2021. Instead, his concerns related to a change in the value of his 
investments, likely future mortgage costs and levels of future discretionary spending. 
Changing inputs like this if incorrect is reasonable, but making broader changes to 
underlying assumptions is less so, or indeed impossible if mandated by regulations. And 
having made the adjustments raised by Mr R, abrdn still concluded it wasnt in his best 
interests to transfer. 
Mr Rs key financial objective was to maintain his standard of living. And abrdns conclusions 
included that Mr Rs expenditure needs werent currently met by secure income sources, 
and that additional income might be needed. Advising that these requirements might be 
better met by retaining the Aviva plan with the guarantees it offered, doesnt seem 
unreasonable. As the alternative of leaving pension funds invested and withdrawing an 
income is an inherently riskier approach. Inflation being higher than many commentators 
expected may have challenged this conclusion over the shorter term. But this was long term 
pension planning and the assumptions used needed to factor that in. 
Another advisory firm might have come to a different conclusion. It isnt clear whether Mr R 
sought advice elsewhere, and I appreciate the likelihood of further non-contingent fees being 
charged may have dissuaded him from seeking this. But without taking advice, its likely that 
his only option was to secure benefits through purchasing an annuity. But that arose from a 
combination of the rules relating to the pension benefits in question and the regulators 
requirements over advice standards. These may have restricted Mr Rs options, but abrdn 
wasnt responsible for that and it isnt reasonable to say it forced him into buying a useless 
annuity. 
The advice fees
Before abrdn provided its report on 22 December 2021 it emailed Mr R on 17 December 
2021. It said.
Thanks for your time earlier today and as promised I have summarised the main 
points in relation to our discussion below:The provision of providing advice around the suitability your Aviva pension, will incur 
a fee which requires to be paid regardless of whether the advice is to retain or 
transfer your Aviva pension. The initial charge is 2% of the transfer value, based on a 
figure of £138,105.32 as at the 1 July this would be £2,762.11.
The current ongoing advice charge that you are paying within your standard SIPP is 
0.79%, based on the current transfer value the ongoing advice charge would be 
£1,091.03. If the combined value of your SIPP after the payment
of tax- free cash exceeds £500,000 than the ongoing adviser charge would reduce to 
0.69%pa.
You confirmed that you are happy to pay both the initial and ongoing advice fee in 
relation to the advice provided by abrdn Financial Planning.
In line with FCA regulations if the advice is not to transfer then we will not  allow a 
facilitation of transfer.
I think it was clear that Mr R was fully aware of the level of abrdns fee and that this wasnt 
contingent on the advice being to proceed with a transfer. And that it wouldnt facilitate any 
transfer against its advice. If he didnt agree with this or had changed his mind, he did have 
time to contact abrdn and discuss this before the report was generated. If Mr R isnt happy 
with any ongoing advice fees, he can discuss these with abrdn, there is certainly no 
indication he was misled about these.
So, Mr R wasnt misled about the fees and did have the opportunity to challenge these or 
seek alternative costs from other advisers. And I think it gave advice that was suitable for 
him as it was required to do. So, I dont think abrdn has treated him unfairly or unreasonably 
and I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman