DRN-3445054
The complaint
Mr B complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) failed to respond to his request for a 
payment freeze, issued a default on his account and recorded it on his credit file.
What happened
Mr B held a credit card account with Vanquis. He says that in February 2020, he was 
furloughed from his job and also hospitalised as a result of an injury he sustained. This 
resulted in a three-month absence from working.
Mr B says he contacted Vanquis to request a payment break under guidelines issued by the 
government during the global pandemic. Hed been receiving text message reminders from 
Vanquis. Mr B says that he had no existing defaults but was struggling to meet his monthly 
card payments. He says he offered to pay a reduced amount each month.
Mr B recalls that in April 2020, he had a digital message conversion with Nationwide. They 
said theyd refer his situation to another advisor but then didnt respond back to him. Mr B 
says he attempted to contact Vanquis by telephone and email without success.
Mr B next recalls receiving default letters from Vanquis, adverse information reported on his 
credit file and he had also been blocked from accessing his account online. In the meantime, 
Vanquis continued to apply interest to his account. Mr B thought the service hed received 
from Vanquis was poor. So, he complained to Vanquis in December 2020. He says he also 
submitted a data subject access request (DSAR) to Vanquis.  
Vanquis responded to Mr Bs complaint in January 2021. They didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong. They explained that Mr B had not made a payment to his account since 
January 2020. They referred to digital message conversations with Mr B which he appeared 
to have terminated. They also said theyd tried to contact him by telephone, text message 
and letter. But when then didnt receive a response, they issued a default notice and 
ultimately passed Mr Bs outstanding account to a debt recovery agency.
Mr B wasnt happy with Vanquis response. He had concerns about the honesty of their 
investigation into his complaint. He claimed their response wasnt a true reflection of what 
happened. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
Having investigated Mr Bs complaint further, our adjudicator didnt agree that Vanquis had 
done anything wrong and their treatment of Mr B had been fair and reasonable, given the 
circumstances. Mr B didnt agree with our adjudicators findings. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Bs complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed Mr Bs account statements, I can see the last payment made to his account 
was in January 2020. No subsequent payments were received. So, from the information 
provided, I think its clear that Mr B was struggling financially at that time. 
Mr Bs recollections suggest that his job was furloughed in February 2020. He also explained 
that he was hospitalised as a result of an injury. An injury sufficient to result in hospitalisation 
would undoubtedly have been distressing and worrying for him. So, I think it was important 
that Mr B contacted Vanquis to explain his situation and seek support.
Following the outbreak of the global pandemic in early 2020, the furlough scheme was 
announced by the government on 20 March 2020 and launched on 20 April 2020. So, I dont 
think Mr Bs initial financial difficulties stemmed from being furloughed. That wouldnt have 
happened until later.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 which 
explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising out 
of the global pandemic. It provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of ititially up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applies in the exceptional circumstances arising out of 
coronavirus and its impact on the financial situation of  customers. This guidance is not 
intended to have any relevance in circumstances other than those related to coronavirus. 
The FCA also said that where a customer was in pre-existing financial difficulty, our existing 
forbearance rules and guidancewould continue to apply. 
I think its clear that Mr Bs financial difficulties pre-existed the impact of the global pandemic. 
So, the special guidance issued by the FCA wouldnt have applied here. But I would expect 
Vanquis to have considered alternative forms of forbearance to support Mr B.
Having considered all of Vanquiss file notes and records, it appears the first time Mr B 
contacted them was in early May 2020. This was though Vanquis digital messaging service. 
He told them of his circumstances and Vanquis passed him to an appropriate advisor. But it 
appears Mr B didnt continue the digital conversation. Theres no clear explanation of why 
that was, but I havent seen any evidence to suggest that it was a result of anything Vanquis 
did. A further digital message exchange terminated similarly in early June 2020.
Vanquis have confirmed they continued in their attempts to contact Mr B by telephone, text 
and letter, without success. So, with arrears continuing to accumulate and no agreement or 
support in place, Vanquis issued a default notice towards the end of May. This explained 
that Mr B needed to make a payment and it also provided him their contact details.
Ive not been provided with anything from either party to show that Mr B responded to 
Vanquis default notice to discuss and agree any further support or arrangement. Ultimately, 
Vanquis defaulted Mr Bs account, recorded that on his credit file and transferred the debt to 
a debt collection agency. Given the circumstances, I believe they were entitled to do that.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) issue guidance and principles for the reporting 
of arrears, arrangements and defaults (PRAAD) at credit reference agencies. It says that as 
a general guide, a default may be recorded when you are three months in arrears, and 
normally by the time you are six months in arrears. Vanquis actions appear to comply with 
these guidelines, So, I cant reasonably say that theyve done anything wrong here.
I appreciate that Mr B feels that Vanquis didnt fully investigate his complaint here. I want to 
assure him that I have reviewed all the information and documents provided by him and 
Vanquis in reaching my decision. I also understand he will be disappointed, but I havent 
seen anything that persuades me that Vanquis have treated Mr B unfairly or unreasonably 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman