DRN-2228695
The complaint
Mrs S complains that HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) allowed her to withdraw cash from her 
bank account without her providing  formal identification. 
What happened
Mrs S visited a branch of HSBC in December 2019 to make a large cash withdrawal. Mrs S 
says that HSBC allowed her to make the withdrawal even though she was in a distressed 
state and they should have dealt with the situation differently and didnt ask her for formal 
identification. 
Mr S says that because the branch had no private room available, it meant the withdrawal 
was visible to people inside and outside the banking area.  Following her visit to the branch, 
Mrs S says an incident occurred on the tram ride back from the branch, at which point she 
realised the envelope containing the money she had withdrawn had gone missing.
Mrs S says that because HSBC didnt take sufficient care at the time of the withdrawal, they 
should pay her compensation towards the amount she has lost. 
HSBC say that they correctly identified Mrs S and offered her an alternative payment method 
rather than the cash withdrawal, but this was declined by her.  HSBC say they dont have 
private rooms available, but  they took reasonable precautions before handing over the cash 
sum to Mrs S. This included weighing the amount on counter scales to avoid other people 
knowing the amount withdrawn and placing the funds in an envelope before handing it 
through a glass screen. 
HSBC say they havent made any mistakes here and while they sympathise with Mrs Ss  
situation, theyre not responsible for the money going missing and as a result dont feel a 
compensation payment is due.
Mrs S was unhappy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all of the available information but didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint 
and says HSBC had taken sufficient care before handing over the cash withdrawal to Mrs S. 
The investigator says that HSBC carried out the correct level of identification and offered 
alternatives to Mrs S rather than withdrawing the sum in cash. 
Mrs S wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
What happened to Mrs S was clearly a very upsetting incident and I can understand how 
difficult this must have been for her. When looking at this complaint I have considered 
whether HSBC acted reasonably when allowing the cash withdrawal and if any more could 
have been done to protect Mrs S on this occasion.
Mrs S says that when she visited the branch she asked if there was a private room she could 
go to, to receive the cash withdrawal. She felt that the open nature of the banking hall meant 
her transaction with the cashier was visible to people both inside and outside the branch and 
provided this service with photographic evidence to support this.  Mrs S also says at the time 
of the withdrawal she was in an upset state due to personal reasons. Mrs S says that the 
branch staff accepted her bus pass as a form of identification because she didnt have other 
identification available, but she didnt feel this was sufficient given the sum involved. 
I have considered the points raised by Mrs S as she has suggested the layout of the branch 
and the way in which the cash withdrawal was handled, contributed to the later incident 
when the cash went missing following an incident on the tram. 
I cant see that HSBC can be at fault because they had no available private rooms, this was 
explained to Mrs S at the time and if she felt that was important, she had the opportunity to 
make alternative arrangements if she so wished. The layout of the HSBC branch is what it is 
and its not for me to tell banks how they should structure their branch layouts. What is 
important here is HSBC did carry out their usual precautionary measures when processing 
large cash withdrawals, namely, using scales to weigh the amount so others in the 
immediate area cant see the sum involved and then passing securely the cash in an 
envelope through a protective glass screen. From the evidence provided by both parties I 
cant see that HSBC could have done anything else in the circumstances and after the 
incident when Mrs S returned to the branch to explain what happened, the staff called the 
police to help her. 
Mrs S denies HSBC suggested an alternative to withdrawing the cash, but HSBC say that is 
part of their normal procedures and this is what the staff recall happening. While I cant say 
for certain this is what happened here, on balance I am satisfied this was likely to have been 
the case, but even so, it was Mrs Ss decision to go through with the cash withdrawal. 
As far as the identification process is concerned Mrs S didnt have a passport or drivers 
licence but had photographic evidence by way of her buss pass along with her cheque book. 
Having considered this point made by Mrs S, I am satisfied that this complies with Section 2 
of the account terms and conditions Checking its you where its states that if youre in a 
branch they may ask for photographic ID  this is what happened here and as there is no 
suggestion that the monies were handed over to anyone other than Mrs S,  I cant t see 
HSBC have done anything wrong.
While Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision it follows that I wont be asking anymore 
of HSBC.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman