DRN-2919550
The complaint
Ms S complains that Royal & Sun Alliance (T/A More Than) unfairly avoided her household
insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 24 May 2021  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained why I thought More Than had acted reasonably and 
fairly. And I outlined the reasons why I wasnt minded to uphold Ms S complaint. I said:
What happened
On 27 October 2020, Ms S purchased a policy of household insurance with More Than. 
The policy was purchased online via a cashback site and, as part of the sales process, Ms 
S was asked to confirm whether she, or her family, had had ever insurance refused, 
cancelled, decline or declared void. She answered that no one had. Based on the 
information provided, More Than provided a quotation to Ms S. This quotation was 
accepted, and the policy was due to start on 13 November 2020.
Shortly after the policy was incepted, More Than became aware that Mr H, who is Ms S 
son, had had a policy of motor insurance avoided. It noted that there was an entry on the 
Insurance Fraud Register, which confirmed that hed tried to make a fraudulent theft claim.
And it said it had evidence showing that Mr H lived with Ms S.
On 30 October 2020, More Than wrote to Ms S to ask her to clarify why shed failed to 
declare that a family member had had an insurance policy cancelled and declared void. 
This letter requested Ms S response by 13 November.
More Than said it wouldnt have offered household insurance to Ms S if it had been aware 
of Mr Hs cancelled policy. And, as it hadnt received a response to the correspondence 
sent to Ms S by 13 November, it decided to avoid her policy.
On 16 November 2020, More Than wrote to Ms S to confirm that it was avoiding her policy. 
It thought shed carelessly misrepresented information relating to the insurance history of 
her family. And it decided to fully refund the premium shed paid.
On 18 November, Ms S contacted More Than to explain that, while she was aware of Mr Hs 
previous policy cancellation, he was no longer living in the same household and hadnt done
so for the last seven years. Ms S told More Than she had no contact with Mr H.
More Than requested proof of Mr Hs residency elsewhere. Ms S provided a council tax 
bill, which showed she was recorded as being the sole occupant at her property. More 
Than reviewed this evidence against the electoral roll and the Claims Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE) database, which showed that Mr H was using Ms S address to obtain 
insurance and that he was registered as living there.
Based on the information More Than had seen, it refused to accept Ms S council tax bill 
as proof that Mr H didnt live with her. And, on 23 November, it wrote again to Ms S 
confirming that its decision to avoid her policy stood. But it said it would reconsider the 
position if she provided proof of Mr Hs address such as a rent book, council tax or utility 
bill in his name.
Ms S said she didnt know where Mr H lived and, as she no longer had contact with him, 
she wasnt able to comply with More Thans request. She therefore felt its decision to 
avoid her policy was unfair and unreasonable.
Ms S referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into what had 
happened and recommended upholding this complaint. They thought Ms S had provided 
evidence to show that Mr H didnt live at her address. And they didnt think More Than had 
acted fairly in avoiding her policy. They recommended that More Than remove any 
reference to it avoiding Ms S insurance from her record and pay £100 compensation to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience caused. Ms S accepted our investigators view. 
But More Than disagreed and asked an ombudsman to review this complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is 
here, I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all 
the information provided by Ms S and More Than, but Ill concentrate my decision on what 
I think is relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Ms S  I can see its impacted on her health and 
caused her some distress. I can appreciate how upsetting it must have been for More 
Than to avoid her policy.
Ive carefully considered what happened and whether More Than made an error  such 
that it needs to put right. And Ill explain why I dont think it has.
It isnt in dispute that Ms H had an insurance policy avoided due to a fraudulent theft claim. 
Ms S has confirmed that shes aware of this. However, theres a disagreement here 
between Ms S and More Than about where Mr H lives. Ill focus on this issue first.
Ms S has stated that her son hasnt lived with her for around seven years. Shes also said 
she doesnt know where he lives as shes no longer in contact with him. But More Than 
believes this is untrue and says it has evidence showing that Mr H lives with Ms S.
Having seen this evidence, I can understand why More Than would believe that Mr H is 
living at Ms S property. I say this because hes recorded on the electoral roll as living with 
Ms S and hes registered to vote at her address. This information is dated as recent as 
three months prior to when Ms S purchased her policy. More Than also has information from the CUE database, which shows that Mr H is using Ms S address for his own 
insurance purposes  its clear from CUE that he claims to live there. And I can see that 
his previously voided policy was set up against Ms S address.
In view of the above evidence, it isnt unreasonable for More Than to infer that Mr H lives 
with Ms S. And it isnt unreasonable for it to ask her to prove her son is living elsewhere. I 
can see it gave her a fair time period within which to do so.
As there is a very strong implication, based on the available evidence, that Mr H lives with 
Ms S the onus is on her to show that this is incorrect and untrue. The easiest way for her 
to disprove the implication that Mr H lives with her is to provide evidence showing where 
he lives.
Ms S provided More Than with a council tax bill in her name, which shows shes claiming 
a single occupancy discount. She asserts that this proves her son doesnt live with her. 
But More Than declined to accept it. Ive carefully thought about whether its decision to 
reject that evidence was unfair.
While the council tax bill Ms S has provided shows that shes receiving a single occupancy 
discounted rate, it doesnt prove that she lives alone. It simply shows that shes claiming to 
live alone. There could be strong motivation for Ms S to claim to live alone - doing so 
entitles her to a 25% discount in council tax and her domestic situation is unlikely to be 
investigated by her local council.
Ms S has told our service that her daughter stays with her on occasion as she has chronic 
ill health. But I can see that Ms S included her daughter on her insurance policy with More 
Than as an occupant of her home. In doing so, Ms S appears to be suggesting that her 
daughter lives with her. And this contradicts the information shes provided for council tax 
billing purposes.
Ms S hasnt provided evidence of where her son lives. Shes stated that he hasnt lived 
with her for seven years and that shes estranged from him. So, she doesnt know where 
he lives. But the fact that Mr H remains registered to vote at her address demonstrates 
that she hasnt corrected information recorded on the electoral roll about who lives at her 
address on at least seven separate occasions.
Ms S will have received a form each year, which confirms who is registered on the 
electoral role as living at her home. This form will have included Mr Hs name because the 
role has shown hes registered as living there. Its a legal requirement to complete the 
form correctly each year. And its an offence to mis-declare someones residency. It 
appears that Ms S has mis-declared her son as living at her address on at least seven 
occasions. Its unclear why shed continue to allow her son to be registered as living at her 
address if this wasnt correct.
As Ms S hasnt provided proof that Mr H doesnt live at her address, I dont think shes 
negated the evidence More Than found that suggests hes living there. I therefore havent 
seen enough evidence to persuaded me that Mr H doesnt live with Ms S.
More Than believes that, in not declaring that Mr H lives with her, Ms S has 
misrepresented information about the insurance history of other residents when she took 
out her policy.Where a complaint arises from non-disclosure of information important to an insurer, as it 
does here, our service considers the appropriate legislation including The Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when taking out an insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, the insurer 
has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a 
qualifying misrepresentation. For a misrepresentation to be a qualifying one the insurer 
must show it would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer 
hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to 
take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on 
whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless.
Ill address each stage of the misrepresentation process separately.
Did Ms S take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation?
When looking at whether a policyholder has taken reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation, its important to decide if the insurer asked a clear question when 
the policy was taken out.
Ive seen evidence that, prior to purchasing her policy with More Than, Ms S was shown 
an eligibility statement that said:
please read and confirm these statements about the home you want to insure are true: 
You and your familyhave never had insurance cancelled, declined or declared void.
More Than goes on to define you and your family as you, plus any partner, children 
(including adopted and foster children) and parents or other relatives who normally live 
with you.
Im satisfied that the eligibility statement Ms S was asked to agree with was clear. There 
can be no misunderstanding of what its asking. And Im persuaded this placed the onus 
on Ms S to take reasonable care in answering it not to make a misrepresentation.
I can see that the documentation Ms S was sent by More Than after her policy 
commenced showed how shed answered the eligibility statement. If the information had 
been incorrect Ms S could have corrected it at this stage. But she didnt.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think Ms S ought to have answered the eligibility 
statement by confirming that a family member had had insurance declared void. It 
follows that Im not persuaded she took reasonable care in answering the eligibility 
statement.
Did Ms S make a qualifying misrepresentation?Ive carefully considered the underwriting criteria that More Than has provided to our 
service. This shows me that More Than doesnt provide cover to anyone where they, or a 
family member, have had insurance cancelled, declined or declared void. So, had More 
Than known Mr H had had his motor policy cancelled, Im satisfied it wouldnt have offered 
to insure Ms S.
Its clear that Mr Hs history of insurance was information which was important to More 
Than. I say this because it would have changed its decision to offer a policy to Ms S. Im 
therefore satisfied Ms S misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Was the misrepresentation deliberate, reckless or careless?
More Than has treated Ms S misrepresentation as careless. And I think its decision to treat 
the misrepresentation as careless rather than deliberate or reckless, was the best possible 
outcome for Ms S in the circumstances. I agree that her misdeclaration was careless rather 
than deliberate or reckless.
As Im satisfied Ms S misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions More Than can take in accordance with CIDRA. In these circumstances, the law 
allows More Than to avoid the policy from the date of the misrepresentation and not deal 
with any claims. It must then return any unused premiums the consumer paid.
Here, I understand that More Than took the decision to avoid Ms S policy from the 
inception date. It also returned the premium shed paid. Im persuaded that this was in line 
with CIDRA.
I can well understand Ms S deep frustration with the withdrawal of her insurance cover. 
But I can also see that More Than gave her ample notice that it was intending to avoid her 
insurance policy prior to doing so. And it provided a time frame of 14 days within which she 
needed to provide proof of Mr Hs residency. This is in line with the terms and conditions of 
Ms S policy. So, I cant fairly find it made an error in avoiding Ms S policy when she failed 
to respond.
As More Than is entitled to decide who it does or does not wish to insure, I cant ask it to 
reinstate Ms S avoided policy. This is a commercial decision for an insurer to make and 
its not one with which our service can interfere.
For the reasons outlined, my provisional decision is that More Than was entitled to avoid 
Ms S policy. I think its decision was reached reasonably and in line with CIDRA. So, Im 
not intending to ask it to do anything more to resolve Ms S complaint.
In my provisional decision, I invited both parties to respond with any additional information 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision, which is our service's last word 
on the matter.
More Than responded to confirm it accepted my provisional decision  so it nothing further to 
add. 
Ms S initially responded to request an extension of the deadline I had set down. This 
extension was granted. When Ms S responded, she said she didnt accept the provisional 
decision, which she felt was biased. 
In her response, Ms S stated that she was unaware that her son was registered at her 
address on the electoral roll. She also provided our service with a copy of an email to her 
local council, dated 2 June 2021, in which she requested it remove any other names registered on the electoral role at her address. In that email she stated she is the only 
person who lives at her address. Ms S also rejected comments that I had made in the 
provisional decision about her daughters residency and she provided a copy of a council tax 
bill in her daughters name.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate why Ms S may be disappointed that Ive departed from what an investigator 
previously said about her complaint. But my role is to assess whether I think More Than 
made a mistake, or treated Ms S unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. And in 
my provisional decision I explained why I hadnt seen enough evidence to support a finding 
that Ms S has been treated unfairly or that More Than made a mistake when it decided to 
avoid her policy.  
Ive taken on board all of the comments Ms S made in response to my provisional decision 
 and Ive reconsidered all of the evidence our service received. However, Im still not 
persuaded that this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
In response to my provisional decision, Ms S has said she was unaware that her son was 
registered at her address on the electoral. However, Im not persuaded this is correct. As I 
explained in my provisional decision, Ms S will have received a form each year, which 
confirms who is registered on the electoral role as living at her home. This form will have 
included Mr Hs name because the role has shown hes registered as living there for a 
considerable period of time. 
I can see from the new evidence that Ms S has provided to our service that shes now 
written to her local council to request that her sons details are removed from the electoral 
roll as it relates to her address. But, in not correctly this information previously, Ms S has 
mis-declared that her son as living at her address on at least seven separate occasions. It 
remains unclear why she continued to allow her son to be registered as living at her 
address, during that period, if this wasnt correct.
Ms S has provided a council tax bill, in response to my provisional decision, which shows 
that her daughter is paying council tax elsewhere. I understand the point Ms S is seeking to 
make about her daughter residing elsewhere. But it remains unclear why Ms S has then 
included her daughter on her insurance policy with More Than as an occupant of her home. 
And this doesnt, of course, change the observations I made in my provisional decision 
about Mr Hs living arrangements.
Based on the evidence Ive considered, I remain persuaded that More Than didnt act 
unreasonable or unfairly in inferring that Mr H lives with Ms S. There remains a very strong 
implication, via the evidence from CUE and the electoral roll, that Mr H lives with Ms S. As I 
explained in my provisional decision, this placed the onus on Ms S to show that this 
implication was incorrect and untrue. It therefore wasnt unreasonable for More Than to ask 
Ms S to prove her son is living elsewhere.
 
The easiest way for Ms S to prove that her son wasnt living with her was to provide 
evidence showing where he lives. I remain satisfied that she didnt negate the implication 
that her son lives with her in producing a council tax bill  for the reasons I outlined in detail 
in my provisional decision.I remain satisfied that More Than gave Ms S a fair opportunity to show Mr S didnt live 
with her. And I dont think More Than could have offered any further assistance to Ms S 
in the overall circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Ms S for her comments. But I therefore remain persuaded that More Thans 
decision to avoid Ms S policy was reached reasonably and in line with the terms and 
conditions of her policy. Im still satisfied that Ms S complaint shouldnt be upheld and I see 
no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman