The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that HDI Global Specialty SE has only paid part of a claim they 
made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2019, Mr and Mrs C discovered thered been a leak from their fish tank, which 
had caused damage to their walls; some rusting to their sofa and damage to their floor. They 
made a claim on their home insurance policy.
HDI appointed a surveyor to investigate the cause of damage. Mr and Mrs C also sent in a 
report from the seller of the tank and the cabinet which supported it. HDI considered the 
surveyors report. This found that there was some floor damage and wall damage. So HDI 
agreed to cover the repairs to the damaged wall and to the living room floor. 
But it didnt agree to cover the costs of either the fish tank or the cabinet it stood on. Thats 
because the sellers report suggested the leak was due to a gap which had appeared 
between the cabinet and the tank. This had led to a lack of support in the cabinet. Combined 
with the weight of water, the tank had become unsupported and had put too much pressure 
on the silicon seal. This then caused the leak. The seller said this had been going on for a 
while. So HDI said the damage wasnt caused by a one-off insured event  it had been 
caused gradually, over time. This was specifically excluded by the policy terms.
HDI also said it wouldnt cover the cost of replacing Mr and Mrs Cs sofa. Thats because the 
only water damage the surveyor found was slight rusting underneath it. It said repairing this 
damage would cost less than the policy excess of £350. The rest of the damage to the sofa 
was down to wear, tear and general use.
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with HDIs decision. They asked us to look into their complaint. 
They said the cabinet that had housed the aquarium was damaged; the recliner function on 
their sofa no longer worked and they had matching flooring throughout their hallway and rear 
lounge. These areas werent separated by a door bar. The flooring they already had was no 
longer available. So Mr and Mrs C also thought HDI should pay for the cost of replacing their 
downstairs flooring. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. She thought there 
was a clear division between Mr and Mrs Cs lounge and the hallway. So she didnt think it 
would be fair to ask HDI to pay for the undamaged hallway and back lounge floors to be 
replaced. She agreed the water damage to the sofa was limited to slight rusting and so she 
thought it was reasonable for HDI to conclude this damage could be repaired. As the repairs 
would fall below the policy excess, she didnt think HDI needed to meet the costs of getting 
these repairs done.
DRN-1943462The investigator didnt think there was any cover under the policy for the damage to Mr and 
Mrs Cs fish tank. She felt it was fair for HDI to rely on the sellers report to conclude the 
damage had happened over time. So she thought it was reasonable for HDI to turn down 
this part of the claim.
Mr and Mr C disagreed. They said they wanted help from the insurer to seek recovery for the 
costs of the tank. They believed the tank should be covered because they didnt feel the 
damage was due to wear and tear. They said a loss assessor had inspected their property 
and said the flooring between the lounge, hallway and back lounge were matching. So they 
felt they should be treated as one continuous piece of flooring. As the sofa frame was rusty, 
they wanted them to be treated as fully part of the claim. They added that their skirting 
boards are now flexing due to water damage and they also believed that the floors are 
subsiding. So theyd like this issue considered.
I issued my provisional decision on 23 April 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to partly uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I said:
First, I need to make it clear that I wont be looking into either any potential subsidence issue 
or damage to Mr and Mrs Cs skirting boards within this decision. Thats because Mr and Mrs 
C havent raised these issues with HDI. Theyll need to get in touch with HDI to raise these 
issues and give it a chance to look into them before were potentially able to help.
There are three main questions I need to decide as part of this decision. Was it fair for HDI 
to turn down the costs of replacing the fish tank and cabinet? Was it fair for HDI to decide 
not to replace the sofas? And was it fair for HDI to only offer to meet the costs of replacing 
the lounge floor? Ill deal with each in turn.
Was it fair for HDI to turn down the cost of replacing the fish tank and cabinet?
I understand Mr and Mrs C feel strongly that the cost of the fish tank and its cabinet should 
be met by HDI. Ive considered their policy and the expert evidence very carefully to decide if 
I think the damage was caused by something the policy covers.
The policy does cover the damage caused by an escape of water. Its clear in this case that 
water leaked from Mr and Mrs Cs fish tank and caused damage to their lounge. But having 
considered the available evidence, I dont think the damage was down to any of the other 
one-off insured events (like fire, or theft) that the policy covers.
So Ive turned to look at the accidental damage section of the policy, which offers wider 
cover. The policy defines accidental damage as: Unexpected and unintended damage 
caused by sudden and external means. I appreciate that the water leaking from the tank 
was sudden. But I need to decide if the cause was sudden and down to external means.
The only expert evidence I have to assess is the report provided by the seller (and fitter) of 
Mr and Mrs Cs fish tank and cabinet. Ive placed some weight on this report, because the 
seller had the chance to inspect the tank and has many years of experience in working in 
this area.
The report states I also noted that there was a 1-2mm gap inside the cabinet at the back 
between the central two upright beams and the wooden upper portion of the tank. This gap 
would not have been present when the tank was filledIt is my opinion that there is a lack of 
support between the cabinet in the middle third towards the back. The weight of the water 
above has forced the cabinet to contour beneath itWith the lack of support beneath, the 
glass has flexed downwards and put too much stress on the silicone joint causing the 
silicone to rupture allowing water to escapeI would suggest that this may have happened over a length of time rather than in an instant. Whilst there is a lot of tolerance and flexibility 
in these joints, being under excessive stress for a longer period has caused the failure.
It seems the expert seller didnt think the cause of the damage was sudden. He specifically 
referred to it happening over a length of time. This suggests that the cause of the damage 
was ongoing over a gradual period. So I dont think I can fairly say the damage meets the 
definition of accidental damage either.
The general exceptions section of the policy states:
This policy does not insure the following
Loss or damage arising from gradually operating causes including deterioration, wear and 
tear, corrosion, rot or similar causes.
On balance, based on what the sellers report says, it seems the damage was down to a 
gradually operating cause and happened over time. So I currently think it was fair for HDI to 
rely on the report when making its decision about Mr and Mrs Cs claim. And for it to turn 
down Mr and Mrs Cs fish tank and cabinet claim based on the fact it wasnt down to a 
sudden one-off event covered by the policy.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C would like me to help them ensure HDI seeks recovery of these 
costs from the seller of their tank. This isnt something Im able to consider as part of this 
complaint and it isnt clear if HDI has looked into this issue. It may be helpful for Mr and Mrs 
C to seek legal advice if theyd like to pursue recovery action against the seller.
Was it fair for HDI to decide not to replace the sofas?
Mr and Mrs C feel their sofas were damaged by the water and believe that HDI should meet 
the cost of replacing them. Ive carefully considered the photos Ive seen and the surveyors 
report to decide this point. The initial report suggested that there was no water damage to 
the sofas, just signs of wear and tear from general use. HDI later accepted there was some 
rust damage underneath the sofa which had likely been due to standing in water. But it felt 
this could be repaired and maintained that the sofa didnt need to be replaced.
I think HDIs assessment of this part of the claim is fair. There does some to have been 
some rust damage to one of the sofas. But it doesnt look like the sofa is unusable or badly 
water damaged and Mr and Mrs C havent provided any expert evidence to counter HDIs 
findings. So Im not planning to tell HDI to pay for a replacement.
But HDI hasnt met the repair costs because it says theyre below the policy excess of £350. 
However, the policy only requires an excess to be deducted for the first part of a claim. Mr 
and Mrs Cs claim is made up of the cabinet and fish tank, the sofa, the decoration and the 
flooring. So it seems to me that only one excess should be deducted overall. This means I 
think the repair costs for the sofa should be considered as part of the whole claim.
Was it fair for HDI to only meet the cost of the lounge floor?
Mr and Mrs C believe HDI should meet the cost of replacing all the flooring in their lounge, 
hallway and rear lounge, as its one continuous piece of flooring. Ive looked at the policy 
terms relating to matching sets. It says::
We treat each item of a matching set or suite of furniture, sanitary fittings, soft furnishings, 
carpets or other fixtures and fittings as a single item. We will only pay the cost of repairing or 
replacing the damaged item. We will not pay for repairing or replacing  Any undamaged item that is part of a matching set or suite where damage occurs to a 
specific item of the matching set or suite.
HDI considers the lounge, hallway and rear lounge areas to be separate areas of flooring. 
Thats because each room/area has a doorway dividing it from the next. So it says it will only 
replace the damaged front lounge flooring and add a door bar to demarcate the area.
But I currently dont think HDI has considered this part of the claim fairly. The photos show 
that Mr and Mrs C clearly intended the lounge, hallway and rear lounge flooring to match. 
Theres no bar separating each area and in my view, the flooring is continuous throughout 
the rooms. So I think HDI should treat the lounge, hallway and rear lounge flooring as 
matching. Without replacing all three areas, there will be a loss of this match. This means I 
currently think it would be reasonable for HDI to pay fair compensation for the loss of match 
between the lounge, hallway and rear lounge areas.
However, I dont think it would be fair for me to direct HDI to pay the full cost of replacing the 
hallway and rear lounge flooring, given it hasnt been damaged. It isnt strictly covered by the 
policy terms. So Ive thought about what would be a fair and reasonable compromise for 
both parties. I currently think the fair outcome for this complaint would be for HDI to pay 50% 
of the cost of replacing the undamaged hallway and rear lounge flooring.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or submissions they wanted me to look 
at.
Neither HDI nor Mr and Mrs C agreed with my provisional decision.
HDI said that the policy terms and conditions stated that if a claim was made under both the 
buildings and contents sections of a policy, an excess would apply for each section. So it felt 
its initial decision about the sofa was right. And while it accepted the flooring ran throughout 
the downstairs, it said the rooms were separated by doors. So it didnt think it was fair to 
direct it to pay 50% of the cost of the undamaged flooring.
Mr and Mrs C provided a further report about the cause of the damage to the fish tank. They 
said the new assessor thought the gap in the fish tank was normal. They also thought the 
leak may have been caused by their children kicking a ball into the fish tank. They sent a 
video showing the water leak.
Our investigator contacted Mr and Mrs C and let them know that two excesses had likely 
been correctly applied, so it was likely the sofa damage was below the excess. She asked if 
Mr and Mrs C had any evidence to show that the damage would cost more than the policy 
excess. 
Mr and Mrs C said they couldnt get anyone out to look at the sofa because of the current 
situation. They asked me to go on to look at the complaint again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I still think their 
complaint should be partly upheld and Ill explain why.
The claim for the fish tank
Im grateful to Mr and Mrs C for sending in a further report for me to look at from an 
aquarium specialist and Ive considered it carefully. The specialist found that the building itself wasnt the cause of the damage. They found the cabinet was solid and well-built.  They 
concluded the seal had blown for reasons unknown.  And it continued this may have been 
caused when manufacturing, but this isnt known for sure.
Its clear that theres some disparity in the expert reports about the cabinet and tank itself. 
But as I explained in my provisional decision, the only section of the policy which would 
cover Mr and Mrs Cs damaged fish tank is the accidental damage section of the policy. So I 
need to be satisfied that the damage was caused suddenly.
Im not persuaded that the second expert report shows its most likely the damage was 
caused suddenly. Thats because the specialist didnt give a cause of the damage and 
wasnt able to determine what it was. They thought it was possible the damage had been 
caused during manufacture  which would be down to faulty workmanship rather than 
something that was covered by the policy. And they couldnt pinpoint when the seal had 
blown.
So while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Cs position, I have to make a decision based on the 
expert evidence I have. Neither of the reports Ive seen suggest its most likely the damage 
was caused suddenly. So I simply dont think the damage to the fish tank is covered by their 
policy. 
The sofa damage
As the investigator explained, the policy states: 
Please note if you hold Buildings and Contents insurance with AA Insurance Services and 
claim under both sections you will be required to pay the excesses under both sections.
In this case, Mr and Mrs C claimed under both the buildings section of the policy (the 
damaged floor) and the contents section of the policy (the fish tank and sofa). So it seems 
its appropriate for HDI to deduct two excesses from the value of the claim.
HDIs surveyor felt the damage was limited to rusting of the sofa legs, which fell below the 
dual excesses. Mr and Mrs C have told me theyve been unable to get any expert evidence 
to counter this finding. So based on the evidence of HDIs surveyor, it seems the sofa 
damage does fall below the policy excesses. This means I dont now think HDI needs to 
reassess Mr and Mrs Cs claim for the sofa damage.
The flooring damage
I appreciate HDI doesnt agree that it should contribute 50% towards the cost of the 
undamaged flooring. It doesnt think it should be treated in the same way as the loss of 
match of sofas or sanitary ware.
Ive considered HDIs submissions on this point. But I still think it must pay 50% of the costs 
of the undamaged flooring. As I explained in my provisional decision, its clear Mr and Mrs C 
intended the flooring throughout the downstairs of their home to match. The laminate is 
continuous throughout. I dont think simply putting in a door-bar between each area would 
adequately compensate them for this loss of match.
I can see from the photos though that there are doorways between the rooms, even though 
the doors generally seem to be open. So I dont think it would be fair for me to direct HDI to 
pay the full costs of replacing the floor.
In my view, the fair and reasonable outcome for this complaint is for HDI to pay Mr and Mrs C compensation for the loss of match in the undamaged areas of their downstairs flooring. I 
accept the policy doesnt cover undamaged items. But generally, we take the view that its 
fair and reasonable for an insurer to pay compensation for the loss of match in these 
circumstances. Ive decided payment of 50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged hallway 
and rear lounge flooring is fair compensation in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
partly uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
I direct HDI Global Specialty SE to pay 50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged hallway 
and rear lounge flooring, because of the loss of match.
I make no further award against HDI.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman