DRN-3672869
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV), 
declining a claim under their home insurance policy for damage to their property caused by 
bad weather. 
LV use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to LV includes these 
agents.
What happened
In November 2021, at the time of Storm Arwen, bricks were blown out of the gable end wall 
of Mr C and Mrs Cs property during the night, which also caused damage to the roof and 
guttering of the property next door. They contacted LV in the morning to tell them about the 
damage and lodge a claim. They sent a photograph of the damaged area but were told that 
a storm wouldnt have caused the kind of damage indicated in the photograph
Mr C and Mrs C contacted LV again to challenge their initial view. But they maintained their 
initial view, saying that on the three criteria they used to assess claims for storm damage, 
the photograph indicated only one of the criteria appeared to be met. That was there were 
storm conditions at the time of the incident. But they didnt consider the damage was 
consistent with a storm (the second criteria). They also thought the dominant cause of the 
damage (the third criteria) wasnt the storm, but pre-existing wear and tear, which was 
highlighted by the storm. Based on this, LV advised Mr C and Mrs C to engage their own 
builder to repair the damage (and they wouldnt send someone out to assess the damage).
Mr C and Mrs C engaged a local builder who inspected the property and provided an 
estimate for repairing the damage, which Mr B and Mrs C accepted. The builder repaired the 
damage (and to the property next door). Mr C and Mrs C paid £8,238 for the repair work. 
The builder told Mr C and Mrs C the wall was damaged due to failed wall ties, which they 
wouldnt have known about before the storm. 
Mr C and Mrs C then complained to this service. They disagreed with LV decline of their 
claim, based on what had happened (and their builders view about the cause of the wall 
damage). They were also unhappy at their claim being declined without LV sending out 
someone to inspect the damage. They said other properties in the area suffered similar 
damage on the same date and their insurers had accepted claims for damage. They wanted 
LV to accept their claim and reimburse them the £8,238 theyd paid their builder for the 
repair. Theyd had to put on extra heating because of the missing section of wall. The 
experience had also been very stressful for them. 
As Mr C and Mrs C made their complaint to this service in the first instance, we asked LV to 
consider the issues raised by Mr C and Mrs C. In their final response, LV didnt uphold the 
complaint and maintained their decision to decline the claim. They noted the wall had been 
repaired and the builder said the wall ties had failed. LV said the main cause of failure was 
rusting of the metal ties (although other possible causes included poor quality mortar). 
Failure of the wall ties would mean the risk of the outer leaf of the wall collapsing (as had 
happened). While LV appreciated Mr C and Mrs C may not have been aware of the wall ties 
failing, as it was something that had happened gradually, it wouldnt be covered under the 
policy as it excluded damage that happened gradually over time (including deterioration or 
wear and tear, settlement or shrinkage). 
Our investigator then considered the complaint, but didnt uphold it, concluding LV didnt 
need to take any action. On the three criteria used by LV (and this service) when considering 
storm damage, she thought there were storm conditions on the date of the incident and 
(unlike LV) thought the damage to the gable end wall was consistent with that to be 
expected in a storm. On the third question, the investigator concluded LV had acted fairly in 
declining the claim on the basis of the exclusion for wear and tear and things that happened 
gradually/ In coming to this conclusion the investigator noted the views of LVs surveyor that 
the ties had reached the end of their serviceable life. The investigator also noted a picture 
from a publicly available search engine of the gable end wall before the incident, showing 
cracks in the brickwork at the top of the gable end (indicating an issue with the wall, which 
Mr C and Mrs C should have been aware of). As the policy also contained an exclusion for 
wear and tear in the accidental damage section, the investigator concluded that section of 
the policy also wouldnt cover the damage.
Mr C and Mrs C disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. They still thought they had been let down by LV. They disputed LVs point (in 
their final response) they had the opportunity to engage their own specialist to report on the 
cause of the damage. They also thought LVs surveyor report was carried out after the event 
and remotely. They also reiterated the point about other properties in the area having gable 
end damage and having their claims accepted by insurers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether LV has acted fairly towards Mr C and Mrs C.
The main element of Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint is that LV unfairly declined their claim, on 
the grounds that while there were storm conditions at the time of the incident, the damage to 
the gable end wall wasnt consistent with that expected in a storm and the storm wasnt the 
main cause of the damage. Rather, it was due to wear and tear and gradual deterioration of 
the wall ties. 
In considering this issue, whether the damage resulted from a storm or from a pre-existing 
issue (in this case, wear and tear and gradual deterioration), there are three key issues we 
consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, in their initial assessment of the claim LV accepted there were storm 
conditions around Mr C and Mrs Cs property at the time of the incident, noting a highest 
wind speed of 74 mph. This accords with the weather report from the weather firm this 
service uses. For the weather station nearest to Mr C and Mrs Cs property, on the date of 
the incident the report indicates a peak gust of 74 mph. Based on this, Ive concluded there 
were storm conditions present on the date of the incident. 
On the second question, the photograph of the damage provided by Mr C and Mrs C show 
that a section towards the apex of the outer gable end wall has fallen. LVs view is that the nature of this damage isnt what theyd expect in a storm  they say theyd expect damage to 
be to the ridges and tiles of the roof. Ive considered this carefully, but I dont agree. While 
there doesnt appear to be damage to the roof (such as missing or displaced tiles) the 
section of wall has come away, revealing the inner wall (which appears intact). However, I 
dont think the absence of damage to the ridges and tiles of the roof mean there couldnt 
have been damage to the wall. That is, the absence of roof damage doesnt automatically 
preclude other damage. Given the windspeed recorded, some structural damage could be 
expected. The collapse of the section of outer wall would, in my view, be structural damage. 
So, Ive concluded the damage is consistent with that a storm typically causes.
The third question is therefore key, given LV declined the claim because the collapse was 
due to the failure of the wall ties, which itself was the result of wear and tear and gradual 
deterioration. And as such, would fall within an exclusion in the policy. Mr C and Mrs C say 
the decline is unfair, because (based on what their builder told them) they wouldnt have 
been aware of the issue. Ive considered this issue carefully, together with the view of LVs 
in-house surveyor. Ive also looked at the photograph of the damaged gable end and the 
image of the gable end taken from a publicly available search engine. Taking all these things 
into account, Ive concluded LV have acted fairly in declining Mr C and Mrs Cs claim. I know 
this will be disappointing to Mr C and Mrs C, so Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think its 
reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that caused damage. 
However, where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as LV have 
done) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at the available 
information and evidence, I dont think LV have done so in the specific circumstances of this 
case, so Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their final response, LV refer to policy exclusions for damage that happens gradually over 
time (including deterioration or wear and tear, settlement or shrinkage). Looking at the policy 
terms and conditions, in the General Exceptions section, theres the following exclusion:
We will not pay for
any claim arising from:
Anything which happens gradually including deterioration or wear and tear, 
settlement or shrinkage:
Mr C and Mrs C say their builder told them the wall collapse was due to failed wall ties, 
which they wouldnt have known about before the storm. Given the wall ties were, by 
definition, located between the inner and outer walls then I can understand their not being 
visible from the outside (so their condition wouldnt have been visible either). However, LV 
have provided an image of the wall taken before the incident. Looking at it, there is a visible, 
horizontal crack in the outer wall towards the top of the apex (and near to part of the wall that 
collapsed. LV also note the wall ties are visibly discoloured in the photograph taken after the 
collapse). Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded the collapse was due to the 
failure of the wall ties and that they had corroded (deteriorated) over time. I think the visible 
crack would also have indicated a problem with that section of wall.
As such, given the wording of the policy exclusion, Ive concluded the storm conditions 
highlighted the pre-existing issue of the deterioration of the wall ties. So, the storm 
conditions werent the main (or dominant) reason for the collapse. While Ive come to this conclusion, I have considered the specific points raised by Mr C and 
Mrs C when disagreeing with our investigators view. On their disputing LVs point (in their 
final response) they had the opportunity to engage their own specialist to report on the cause 
of the damage, Im not persuaded this affects my conclusion. I say this because both their 
builder (and LV) have said the collapse was due to the failure of the wall ties. As both agree, 
and theres no evidence the cause was other than failure of the wall ties, I dont think this 
changes that conclusion.
They also say LVs surveyor report was carried out after the event and remotely. While its 
true LVs surveyor view was provided as part of our investigation of Mr C and Mrs Cs 
complaint, it supports LVs initial decline of the claim. And the image of the wall showing the 
crack before the incident similarly supports LVs view. 
On the point about other properties in the area having gable end damage and having their 
claims accepted by insurers, my role is to consider whether LV have acted fairly in the 
circumstances of this case and in declining the claim. So, I can only consider the evidence 
and information thats directly relevant to this complaint. As Ive set out above, I think LV 
have acted fairly and reasonably. 
Based on this, my overall conclusion is that LV acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mr C 
and Mrs Cs claim on the basis of the policy exception. As a general exception, this would 
apply to all sections of the policy, including storm damage and accidental damage.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman