DRN-2047499
The complaint
Mr E has complained about the level of compensation offered by AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited after it admitted it had wrongly advised him he wouldnt be covered for future 
consultations in respect of his heart condition.
What happened
In 2012, a heart consultant diagnosed Mr E as having suffered from a slight heart attack and 
put him on medication to control his symptoms.
The consultant continued to have regular follow-up consultations with Mr E to review his 
medication. These took place roughly every six months. AXA provided cover for these 
consultations. 
In November 2018, Mr E had a heart pacemaker fitted through the NHS.
In September 2019, Mr E sought authorisation from AXA for another consultation with his 
heart consultant to review his medication. AXA said it would need to receive a report from 
the consultant because it appeared that the consultation was for the monitoring of a chronic 
condition and this would not be covered under the policy.
Mr E complained to AXA, pointing out that it had provided cover for these consultations for a 
number of years.
In October 2019, AXA issued a final response letter on Mr Es complaint. It said that the 
policy stated that a condition which required long-term monitoring was regarded as a chronic 
condition for which cover was excluded. It noted that it had provided Mr E with cover for 18 
follow-up consultations with his heart consultant over the years but said this had been an 
error on its part. It agreed to pay for one more consultation as a goodwill gesture but said 
this would be the last one it would cover.
Mr E was unhappy at AXAs decision. In March 2020, he referred his complaint to us.
AXA then reviewed its decision. It issued a new final response letter in March 2020. It said 
that in its earlier final response letter, it hadnt taken account of the fact that in November 
2018, Mr E had had a pacemaker fitted. It said that the policy had special rules which 
allowed cover for routine follow-up consultations following this procedure which meant it 
shouldnt have told Mr E that future consultations with his heart consultant would not be 
covered. It noted that in October 2019 it had agreed to pay for one further consultation which 
had taken place in November 2019 and that Mr E hadnt been due to have any further 
consultations since then. It was therefore satisfied that the error in its earlier final response 
letter hadnt caused any delay in Mr Es treatment but it nonetheless offered him £300 
compensation.
Mr E was still unhappy at AXAs response. He thought the compensation was inadequate. 
He asked us to continue with our investigation into his complaint.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that AXAs second final response had offered to resolve matters fairly.
Mr E didnt accept the investigators findings. He outlined various occasions over the years 
when he thought AXA had provided poor service. He considered that all the follow-up 
consultations hed had with his consultant had been eligible for cover and disputed that AXA 
had only paid for these in error. He said that he had been denied the opportunity to have a 
consultation with his heart consultant immediately following his pacemaker procedure in 
November 2018. He considered the £300 compensation was derisory, particularly when 
compared to the cost of his policy, and didnt reflect the stress to which hed been put by 
AXAs poor administration of his policy since 2012.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me clarify that the complaint which Mr E referred to us was about AXAs decision to 
decline cover for his future consultations with his heart consultant on the grounds that his 
condition was chronic, and then the level of compensation it offered when it reversed that 
decision after admitting it had overlooked the policys provisions for when a pacemaker had 
been fitted. In the course of his correspondence with us, Mr E has raised various other 
concerns, including the cost of the policy which he considers to be unfair. As the investigator 
has explained, he will need to raise separate complaints with AXA about these other 
matters. I shall not be considering them within this decision.
AXA paid for a total of 18 follow-up consultations between Mr E and his heart consultant 
between 2012 and 2019. As I understand it, these consultations were generally for the 
purpose of monitoring Mr Es medication. The policy says that cover is not provided for either 
the treatment of a chronic condition or for the monitoring of a medical condition. On the face 
of it, it therefore seems likely that at least some of these consultations were not eligible for 
cover under the terms of the policy. However, I dont need to make a definitive finding on 
this. This is because AXA has already paid for the consultations in any case, and has 
confirmed it wont seek to recoup the cost of any which may have been paid in error. 
Therefore, it is academic as to whether the past claims were, or were not, eligible.   
This means that my consideration of Mr Es complaint effectively comes down to the period 
between October 2019, when AXA issued its first final response letter saying it would pay for 
only one further consultation, and March 2020, when AXA issued its second final response 
letter revising this decision and offering £300 compensation.
While the policy, as mentioned above, has rules which exclude cover for the treatment of a 
chronic condition or monitoring of a medical condition, Mr E has paid for a policy option 
which overrides these exclusions and under which he is covered for routine, ongoing 
monitoring consultations following certain heart surgical treatments. These listed surgical 
treatments include the fitting of a pacemaker. AXA was aware that Mr E had undergone the 
pacemaker procedure. It should therefore have taken this into account when he sought 
authorisation in September 2019 for his next scheduled consultation. It should have 
authorised the consultation in line with the extra cover for which Mr E had paid. 
AXA was therefore wrong to suggest that Mr E wasnt covered for this consultation and to 
say in its first final response letter of October 2019 that it would pay for this only out of 
goodwill and wouldnt provide cover for such consultations thereafter.AXA recognised its error when it issued its second final response letter of March 2020. Im 
satisfied that in so doing it has resolved the issue of Mr Es future entitlement to cover for 
such consultations. The only issue to resolve is therefore the compensation for AXA 
adopting the wrong position for this period of approximately five months.
AXA paid for a consultation between Mr E and his heart consultant in November 2019. Mr E 
has confirmed that he had no other consultations scheduled between then and when AXA 
issued its second final response letter in March 2020. Im therefore satisfied that AXAs error 
had no impact on Mr Es treatment. Mr E has mentioned being denied cover for a private 
consultation immediately following his pacemaker operation in November 2018 but I can find 
no indication that he asked AXA to provide cover for such a consultation at that time.
I therefore consider that the impact of AXAs error is confined to the stress caused to Mr E 
between October 2019 and March 2020 for believing that he would not be covered for future 
heart consultations. I consider that Mr E would have been worried by this thought during this 
period, and I appreciate that Mr E unfortunately has various other health issues which may 
be affected by stress. Nonetheless, after taking everything into account, I consider that 
AXAs offer of £300 compensation was fair.
I know Mr E will be disappointed by my decision but overall Im satisfied that AXA has acted 
reasonably in this matter and I dont require it to do anything more.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman