DRN-4309297
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE proportionately settled a claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out an annual travel insurance policy in January 2022. Mr T became 
unwell whilst they were on holiday and incurred a lot of medical expenses. 
They claimed on their travel insurance policy, but the claim was only partially settled. Great 
Lakes said Mr T hadnt fully declared his pre-existing medical conditions and that if he had 
theyd have charged a higher premium. Mr and Mrs T complained but Great Lakes 
maintained their decision was fair. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs T made a complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and upheld the complaint. She didnt think Mr T 
had misrepresented his medical history. She said Great Lakes should pay the claim, 8% 
simple interest and £200 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs T accepted the investigators findings. Great Lakes asked an ombudsman to 
review the complaint as they thought Mr T hadnt disclosed relevant medical information 
when he was asked questions during the sales process. So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Great Lakes thinks Mr T failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he answered the medical screening questions as he didnt disclose diverticulitis and 
medication for constipation.
Ive listened to the sales call. The relevant questions Mr T was asked were: 
Are either of you on any hospital waiting list awaiting inpatient treatment? 
Or awaiting any test results for any as yet undiagnosed conditions? 
In the past 12 months have either of you been told to take regular prescribed 
medication for any chronic or recurring conditions? 
Mr T disclosed that he took a statin and medication for an enlarged prostate in response to 
that question. However, he didnt mention that he had diverticulitis or took medication for 
constipation. 
Ive looked at the medical records and I dont think, in the circumstances of this case, Mr T 
failed to take reasonable care when answering these questions. I dont think the questions 
Mr T was asked captured his circumstances, based on the available medical evidence. 
Mr T had been prescribed medication for constipation in 2016. He was admitted to hospital 
in June 2021 and was diagnosed with diverticulitis. He followed this up with his GP and had 
a further appointment with his GP related to constipation a few weeks later. A few days later 
he was treated at the hospital and the GP notes say: 
Adv to continue with one sachet a day for now (sic) 
diet and fluids discussed
having CT and consultant apptt (sic) next Wednesday. 
Mr T then had some further hospital appointments which concluded in around September 
2021. I can also see that Mr T does have the medication for the constipation on the repeat 
dispensing list.  
However, Im not persuaded that this means Mr T failed to answer the question accurately. I 
dont think the above evidence is sufficient to say he was regularly prescribed medication for 
a chronic or recurring condition. For example, theres little information about how often Mr T 
needed to use it and the connection between the constipation and diverticulitis. 
At the time he took out the policy in January 2022 I dont think he was awaiting inpatient 
treatment or any test results for an undiagnosed condition. Im also not persuaded it was 
reasonable for Great Lakes to conclude he was taking regular prescribed medication for a 
chronic or recurring condition based on the medical evidence they had available to them. It 
was open to them to obtain more information from the GP if they wished to do so. So, based 
on the evidence thats available, I dont think Mr T made a misrepresentation and Im 
upholding this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs T have also been caused distress and inconvenience by the impact of being out 
of pocket for a considerable sum of money for a long period of time.  
Putting things right
Great Lakes needs to put things right by:
Settling the claim in line with the remaining policy terms 
Paying 8% simple interest per annum from the date the claim was proportionately 
settled until the date of settlement
Paying £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr and Mrs T by their claim not being settled and for being out of pocket for a considerable sum of money for a long period of time.
If Great Lakes considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs T how much its taken off. It should also give Mr 
and Mrs T a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint about Great Lakes Insurance SE and direct them to 
put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman