DRN-1785943
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr P and Mrs F say HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them the PPI. They paid for the 
policy with a regular monthly premium, which did not attract interest. It covered Mr P in case 
he was off work sick or lost his job.
What happened
I sent Mrs F and Mr P and HSBC a provisional decision on 29 March 2020, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
By the time of this sale, Mr P and Mrs F had already had a mortgage and further advances 
with HSBC for some time without PPI. So they wouldve known they didnt have to have PPI 
with their secured borrowing. From their customer notes, it looks like they spoke to the 
mortgage team in late 2003 and asked for a PPI application. Then they filled out the 
application and returned it by post.
HSBC dont still have a copy of the original documents from the sale, because of the time 
thats passed. But I have looked at sample copies. It looks like in order to get PPI, Mr P and 
Mrs F would need to have signed and submitted an application specifically for the policy, 
separately to applying for any lending. It looks like they wouldve chosen the level of benefit 
they wanted and set up a direct debit to pay for PPI, separately to paying for the mortgage 
itself  again, the PPI was not part and parcel of the mortgage. Then they wouldve been 
sent a welcome letter thanking them for their application and including their policy schedule. 
And Ive not seen any wider problems with HSBCs sales process from the time, nor any 
evidence which shows it misled Mr P or Mrs F here. So I think its most likely that HSBC 
made it clear Mr P and Mrs F didnt have to take out PPI and that they chose to take it  
though I can understand if they no longer recall doing so after so many years.
HSBC didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P and Mrs F, so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for them. It did have to make sure Mr P and Mrs F got the information they needed to decide 
if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr P and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, it looks 
like Mr P was the main earner, was eligible for the cover, and wasnt affected by any of its 
main exclusions or limitations. 
At the point of sale, Mr P was only entitled to 8 weeks sick pay from work, then he had 5 
weeks with no cover at all. He was then covered by a permanent health insurance (PHI) 
policy, but that wouldve paid out just a fraction of Mr Ps normal income. Whereas the PPI 
offered Mr P far more comprehensive cover, since it wouldve paid out on top of his work 
benefits, at a much higher benefit than the PHI, and for up to 52 weeks in any one claim. 
And looking at the terms of Mr Ps PHI policy, it looks like it had more than enough leeway 
for him to receive both the PHI and PPI benefits at the same time, and would not reduce due 
to the PPI.
I do acknowledge that after another 8 months of service, Mr Ps sick pay wouldve increased 
to a 28 week entitlement, less any overtime or bonuses. But the PPI still wouldve paid out 
on top of that and covered him for much longer.
Mr P also had endowment policies, and other insurances through work, such as cover for 
very specific accidents when working abroad. But those were for different things than PPI, so 
Im afraid they arent relevant here. He also had savings, but from what hes told us it doesnt 
sound like they wouldve lasted that long if needed to cover most or all of his income, and in 
any case the PPI meant Mr P could effectively protect his savings and use them for other 
things. Its worth bearing in mind that this mortgage was a significant, long-term commitment. 
There was no guarantee that Mr P would have the same job, benefits, or savings in the 
many years to come. And if Mr P and Mrs F fell behind on their repayments, they couldve 
lost their home. So it looks like the PPI couldve really been useful for them in protecting their 
home and providing some peace of mind.
Further, the PPI was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And it 
was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr P and Mrs F could cancel it at any time without a 
penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information about the PPI was likely to have put 
them off taking it out. 
This means HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P and Mrs F.
But HSBC has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P and Mrs F because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P and Mrs F about that. Because HSBC didnt tell 
them, that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
28 April 2020. This was then extended to 27 August 2020. But neither HSBC nor Mrs F 
and Mr P sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think the policy was mis-sold, 
but I think the compensation HSBC has paid is fair.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC UK Bank Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
costs of the PPI.
HSBC UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr P and Mrs F any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman