DRN-2540240
The complaint
Ms F complains AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
AXA is the insurer in this case, but it has accepted responsibility for the sale. So, for clarity 
I will refer to it as the seller.
What happened
Ms F took out a store card in 1995. At a later date, in June 1998 Ms F was sold a PPI 
policy. The policy would have paid 15% of her outstanding balance from the point of 
claim for as long as she was off sick or out of work.
Ms F says the policy was not made clear to her. She says it was mis-sold.
The adjudicator didnt think Ms Fs complaint should be upheld. Ms F disagrees, so his 
case has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Fs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Ms F says she took the card out during a postal application and that PPI was not made 
clear to her. I acknowledge what she has said here. I can see from an internal print out 
from AXA that it has recorded this sale as taking place over the telephone added to an 
existing card after this card had been set up. So, it could well be that Ms F took out the 
card through a postal application, as she recalls. That said I have seen enough 
information provided by AXA that shows it was more likely than not the PPI policy was 
sold to her during a phone call, after the card was set up. So, I will proceed that this was 
the case.
As I have just concluded Ms F took out the PPI policy during a phone call some-time 
after she had applied for a store card. So as the sale took place after Ms F received the 
card, I think she would have known she had a choice about taking the policy. Ms F says 
the PPI policy was not made clear to her. But the call took place over 22 years ago, so I 
wouldnt expect her to. I dont think the policy could have been added without her 
consent. And as it more likely than not appeared on each of her statements I think if she 
hadnt agreed to it she would have queried it when she saw it.
On balance, I think its likely Ms F agreed to take the PPI knowing she had a choice
about it.
Its not clear whether AXA would have given Ms F a personalised recommendation about 
the policy. But I have treated this case as if AXA did do this, because it holds them to a 
higher standard. It means AXA would have had to take reasonable steps to make sure the 
policy was right for Ms F.
Looking at Ms Fs circumstances at the time of sale I think the policy was suitable for her. I 
say this because:
Ms F was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by any of 
the terms which might have made it more difficult for her to make a successful 
claim, such as those related to self-employment or existing medical conditions;
Ms F says she cant remember what sick pay or savings she wouldve been 
entitled to. But the policy would have paid 15% each month of her outstanding 
balance at the point of claim until she was able to return to work. She could 
have claimed this alongside her sick pay and then for longer if needed. So, it 
offered a useful additional benefit;
Ms F didnt have any other additional means by which to make her 
repayments if she wasnt working;
The cost of the policy was greater than other PPI policies for sale around 
the time. But the benefit was significantly higher and would have paid off her 
entire balance in a few months if she made a successful claim.
Its possible AXA didnt give Ms F all the information she ideally should have received 
to make her decision. But I dont think more, or better, information would have 
changed her mind about buying it because the policy was suitable for her in the way 
Ive already described.
In conclusion regarding the mis-sale of PPI, I dont think Ms F lost out as a result of anything 
AXA might have done wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman