DRN-4117391
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr S complain about the advice and service they got from CMME Mortgages and 
Protection Limited trading as CMME in relation to their mortgage application.
What happened
CMME is a mortgage broker. In 2022 Mrs G and Mr S were planning to relocate. In late April, 
when their plans were at an early stage, they sought CMMEs advice about options for their 
mortgage arrangements. 
CMME gathered some information from Mrs G and Mr S. It made some enquiries about the 
deals that might be available to suit their budget based on their financial circumstances, their 
mortgage requirements and their wish to consolidate their debt. It discussed its initial 
findings about possible deals with Mr S.
In early May 2022 Mrs G and Mr S had an offer accepted on a property they wanted to buy. 
CMME agreed to go ahead and look at their mortgage options. It identified a lender, that Ill 
call Lender A, as the most suitable. 
Mrs G and Mr S asked for an agreement in principle (AIP) which CMME requested in early 
June. Lender A declined to provide one. It didnt explain why. But when Mrs G and Mr S 
contacted it direct it said, broadly, their debt-to-income ratio was too high, and their 
application had been declined in line with its policy.
Mrs G and Mr S agreed CMME should approach another lender it had identified as suitable, 
that Ill call Lender B, to see if it could provide an AIP. Although Lender B was their existing 
lender, it also declined the request, this time based on their credit score. 
Mr S discussed with CMME how to improve his and Mrs Gs credit situation. They took 
action to reduce their level of debt. But they were concerned any action would take time to 
show on their credit files. And they were worried about losing their sale and purchase.
Mrs G and Mr S raised concerns about the actions of CMME. They said it ought to have 
known their applications would fail and should have advised them at the outset to improve 
their credit score. They said the amount they could afford to borrow went down and the 
interest rate they could get went up due to CMMEs actions and delays. That impacted their 
plans to extend the property they were buying and increased their cost of borrowing. And 
they were unhappy CMME had declined to do any more work for them. They felt CMME 
should compensate them for the approximately £20,000 they were no longer able to borrow 
and the additional interest of around £11,000 theyd pay because of the delays it caused.
CMME didnt uphold their complaint. It said it had given Mrs G and Mr S appropriate advice 
and taken appropriate steps. It had no reason to think the requests for an AIP would be 
declined when Mrs G and Mr S had met initial affordability requirements. It said lenders dont 
issue criteria relating to debt-to-income criteria. And CMME had been right not to carry out 
any further work, as carrying out credit checks risked making Mrs G and Mr Ss position 
worse.
Since Mrs G and Mr S didnt agree, they brought their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. As weve been looking into things theyve told us they managed to get 
a mortgage offer from Lender B direct. And they were able to borrow more than theyd 
thought by making some small adjustments to their application with Lender Bs help. Mrs G 
and Mr S say CMME failed to tell Lender B they were existing borrowers. Theyd relied on 
CMMEs advice to wait until their credit file had updated before taking further action to get a 
mortgage. And theyd delayed approaching Lender B. That additional delay meant their new 
mortgage was more expensive as interest rates had gone up. 
Our investigator didnt think CMME had done anything wrong. He said, broadly, brokers 
dont have access to lenders full criteria and policies, which can change at any time in any 
event. CMME sourced suitable mortgages based on the information available to it at the 
time. It wouldnt have known from the outset the applications would be declined. And CMME 
wasnt responsible for causing any delays. Since Mrs G and Mr S didnt agree, their 
complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful for the detailed information the parties have provided. I wont set it all out here. 
No discourtesy is intended by that. It simply reflects the informal nature of the service we 
provide. Id reassure the parties Ive considered everything theyve said. Ill focus here on 
what I consider key in coming to my decision. 
I can understand it was disappointing for Mrs G and Mr S when CMME was unable to secure 
an AIP and that it caused them some distress as they were trying to progress their sale and 
purchase. But, whilst I understand theyll be disappointed, Ive come to the same outcome 
about their complaint as our investigator for similar reasons, as Ill explain.
CMMEs role, broadly, was to advise Mrs G and Mr S about suitable mortgages based on 
their individual needs and circumstances in line with relevant Financial Conduct Authority 
rules. CMME acted appropriately by gathering some initial information about their income, 
expenditure and debts and checking their preferences. Mr S said they wanted to pay off their 
debts at completion rather than before making an application. It was reasonable for CMME 
to make enquiries on that basis.
CMME told Mr S that to get an AIP it would need to ensure their credit score and credit 
history were suitable. It suggested Mrs G and Mr S upload to its portal credit reports from the 
credit reference agencies (CRAs) lenders usually use. That would avoid CMME carrying out 
searches that would leave a footprint on their credit file and potentially affect their 
application. 
Mrs G and Mr S say they could have reduced their debts at the outset but were advised not 
to by CMME. I havent seen any record of CMME giving that specific advice. It told Mrs G 
and Mr S later it would have suggested reducing the level of debt if theyd felt it would cause 
a problem. But CMME says it was satisfied there were no adverse entries or missed 
payments appearing on the credit reports Mrs G and Mr S had submitted. Mrs G said in 
correspondence with CMME that she and Mr S had good credit scores. Im not aware of 
anything in the reports that ought reasonably to have alerted CMME then that they would 
affect a mortgage application. So, it wasnt unreasonable for CMME not to advise Mrs G and 
Mr S to take action to improve their credit scores even if that had been possible. And it 
wasnt what they wanted to do in any event. I note Lender B told Mrs G and Mr S later there 
was no need for them to have cleared down their debts before applying direct. That supports the view that any failure by CMME to advise them to do so at the outset wasnt wrong. 
CMME has explained it used industry search engines to source suitable mortgage products 
and check that Mrs G and Mr Ss situation met lending criteria. It identified Lenders A and B 
as potential lenders, with Lender A being the most suitable. And it ran checks using the 
lenders on-line calculators to see if Mrs G and Mr S would be eligible on affordability 
grounds. The process CMME used is commonly used by brokers. It was reasonable for 
CMME to approach the search for suitable mortgages for Mrs G and Mr S in this way. And 
the steps CMME took were in line with the information it gave Mrs G and Mr S at the outset 
that it could search the market and may be able to access deals they couldnt access; but 
that if Mrs G and Mr S approached lenders direct they might be able to access deals CMME 
couldnt get for them. 
CMME has told us affordability checks with some lenders failed. I dont think that would have 
alerted CMME to a potential issue with Mrs G and Mr Ss level of debt or credit score in 
relation to their applications with Lenders A and B. Thats because different lenders have 
different affordability requirements. It wasnt unreasonable for CMME to think it would be 
able to get an AIP when the affordability checks with Lenders A and B had been successful.
Lenders A and B publish guidance for their brokers about their lending criteria. But, from 
what Ive seen, Lender A doesnt provide information about its policy on whats an 
acceptable level of debt to meet its policy on debt risk. And Lender B doesnt set out the 
detail of how it calculates a credit score. I dont think thats unusual. This sort of detailed 
criteria information is commercially sensitive and can change from time to time depending on 
factors such as the economic climate and a lenders current appetite for risk. Since CMME 
didnt have access to it, it couldnt reasonably anticipate either lender would decline to issue 
an AIP on the grounds they did.
Even when it declined the AIP request, Lender A didnt tell CMME why. Mrs G and Mr S 
spoke to Lender A direct. They reported to CMME that Lender A had said it could give them 
more information for the decline than it could give to CMME. It only said then it had declined 
the request based on its policy relating to debt risk. CMMEs request for an AIP to Lender B 
came back as a credit score decline without further explanation. This supports CMMEs 
position that it didnt have access to lending criteria Lenders A and B relied on to decline the 
requests.
Based on evidence Ive seen, CMME completed the AIP requests using the right information. 
Mrs G and Mr S have suggested it failed to let Lender B know they were existing lenders and 
that that would have made a difference to them getting an AIP at the time. CMME told Mrs G 
and Mr S it would tell Lender B that. And the evidence theyve provided suggests it did, as 
the result bears an account number. But even if Im wrong about that, I dont think it affects 
the outcome of this complaint, as Ill explain.
Although Mrs G and Mr S were able to get a mortgage offer from Lender B direct, it doesnt 
mean CMME would have been successful in doing so, even if it had managed to get an AIP. 
AIPs are issued subject to a full application being made when lenders will consider detailed 
financial information and apply lending criteria that may have changed since the AIP was 
issued. Although Mrs G and Mr S were able to get an offer from Lender B in the end, they 
applied direct, at a different time and made adjustments to their application. It doesnt follow 
that CMME ought to have succeeded in making that application on their behalf.
There was no obligation on CMME to coach Mrs G and Mr S on how to improve their 
application when Lenders A and B declined to provide an AIP. I think CMME acted fairly. It 
offered to check the information that had been submitted to the lenders was correct. Im not 
aware Mrs G and Mr S agreed to that. CMME discussed other possible action with Mrs G and Mr S. The adviser said she couldnt say how best to improve their situation as the 
lenders hadnt given any guidance. And she suggested they contact the credit reference 
agencies for advice on how to improve their credit score. Im not aware they did that. It was 
Mrs G and Mr Ss decision to take action to reduce their level of debt straight away. 
CMME didnt refuse to take any further action for Mrs G and Mr S. It said carrying out any 
further credit checks might adversely affect their credit file and make their position worse. 
So, I think it had their best interests in mind.
I cant see any substantive delays caused by CMME. After the AIP requests were declined, 
CMME did say Lender B ran an automated process and that contacting them might not help 
their application unless Mrs G and Mr Ss circumstances changed. I appreciate they felt the 
action theyd taken to clear some debt and updates to their credit file would help their 
situation and decided to wait until the updates had taken effect. But CMME didnt advise that 
would make a difference. And within a couple of weeks Mrs G and Mr S had told CMME they 
planned to deal with their mortgage application themselves. They could have approached 
Lender B at that stage, as they had Lender A.   
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mrs G and Mr S will be disappointed, I dont 
think its fair to hold CMME responsible for the losses Mrs G and Mr S have incurred. So, I 
dont uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman