DRN-2574191
The complaint
Mrs E complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo) didnt explain the impact of a 
default being reported to her credit file and were wrong to do so.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs E, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs E acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
I was sorry to hear that Mrs E ran into difficulties paying her agreement and that it was 
necessary for her to voluntarily terminate her finance agreement with MotoNovo.
When the business wrote to Mrs E in January 2020 they offered her a discount of 20% on 
the balance of the agreement if it was paid within 14 days. 
Ive listened to the subsequent call Mrs E had with MotoNovo. The agent explains that if the 
payment isnt made by 11 February 2020 then the account will be passed to a debt collection 
company. He also explains to Mrs E that the account would be defaulted at that point and 
the default would remain on Mrs Es record for six years.
Mrs E says the agent should have explained the impact of that default more carefully. She 
says that if he did she would have arranged to borrow money from family to make the 
payment.
Im not persuaded Mrs E would have been likely to have made the payment if the agent had 
spent more time explaining the impact of the default. I say that because:
there was already a significant incentive for Mrs E to pay the money in 14 days as 
the business were offering a 20% discount. I think if Mrs E had been able to raise the 
money this incentive would have been enough to encourage her to do so;
Mrs E confirmed on the call that she would not be able to make the payment until      
1 April 2020. I think it was clear that an earlier payment was not possible.
Ive gone on to consider if the business acted reasonably when they defaulted the account. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) provide the guidance on when defaults should 
be registered. They say that they would expect a default to be registered no earlier than 
when an account is three months in arrears or at the latest when an account is six months in 
arrears. 
Here Mrs Es account was defaulted on 28 January 2021 and at that point Mrs Es credit file 
suggests she was more than three months in arrears. So, I think it was reasonable for 
MotoNovo to have defaulted it.
In those circumstances I would not expect them to simply tell a consumer over the phone 
that the account will be defaulted. The relevant legislation requires them to issue a default 
notice. That notice needs to provide specific information such as the nature of the breach 
and the action required to remedy it. 
MotoNovo have provided a copy of that default notice. They issued it on 5 July 2019, and it 
was sent to the address we hold for Mrs E. It contains the specific information that the 
relevant legislation requires of it. 
So, I dont think MotoNovo were wrong to register a default to Mrs Es credit file and I dont 
think they need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
Phillip McMahon
 
Ombudsman