DRN-4176772
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) caused delays in 
opening a new account for him.
What happened
Mr S applied for a new account with Virgin, hed decided to do this because of the incentives 
that Virgin was offering at the time. Mr S provided Virgin with the documents it needed to 
confirm his identity by 14 February 2022, but the account was not opened within the 
timescale expected. Virgin opened the account on 11 April 2022.
Mr S was unhappy with how things had been handled. He wanted to receive the incentive 
that hed have been entitled to if his account had been opened on time and was very 
unhappy with how his complaint had been handled by Virgin.
Virgin looked into Mr S concerns and paid him £100 for the poor service hed received. It 
also said it would give him a £100 voucher for a Virgin experience day and would pay 3% 
interest on the balance of his account up to £1,000 for the first year as this was one of the 
account opening incentives it was offering at the time Mr S account should have been 
opened. Mr S was unhappy with Virgins response, he didnt feel it went far enough to 
recognise the impact of what had happened on him, and he noted that the incentive hed 
been expecting when he opened his account was 15,000 Virgin Red points, which he had 
still not received.
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened. And, following correspondence 
between the Investigator and Virgin, Virgin agreed to honour the incentive that Mr S had 
been intending to apply for  the 15,000 Virgin points. Unfortunately, this point system was 
no longer available, so instead Virgin offered to pay Mr S £150 which was the cash value of 
the points. Virgin did though explain that this would be instead of the £100 voucher and 3% 
interest that it had previously offered Mr S.
Mr S was unhappy with this offer, he felt that Virgin was now taking away benefits of the 
account that he had opened. 
As no agreement could be reached this complaint has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator and for the same 
reasons.
All parties seem to be in agreement here that there was an avoidable delay in opening Mr S 
new account, and that the service he received from Virgin was below the standard he should 
have expected. So the main issue I must decide on is whether what Virgin has offered to do 
to put things right is a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint.
When Mr S first applied to open this account he says he chose to do so because of an 
incentive hed seen advertised. That incentive offered 15,000 Virgin points for customer 
switching to the M Plus account. Around the same time Virgin had a separate incentive 
running which offered £100 gift voucher for Virgin experience Days and a bonus interest rate 
of 3% for 12 months on balance up to £1,000.
When Virgin looked into Mr S concerns, in an effort to put things right, it assumed he had 
been hoping to receive the gift voucher and bonus interest, so that is what it offered to give 
him. But Mr S has clearly explained that he had been hoping to receive the first incentive  
the 15,000 Virgin points. Virgin is unable to offer those points at this time but it has instead 
offered the cash value of the points, £150. And I consider that to be a reasonable resolution 
to this part of Mr S complaint, as it puts him back in the position (as far as possible) as he 
would have been in if he had been able to open the account when he wanted to. I dont think 
it would be fair for Mr S to receive the benefits of both incentives. So he can either have the 
£150 value of the points, or he can have the £100 voucher and 3% bonus interest rate, he 
cannot have both. I would though note that the additional interest Mr S would have earned, 
plus the value of the voucher, is likely to still be of a smaller cash value than the £150 Virgin 
is now offering. 
Turning to the compensation Virgin has offered, I do not dispute that this issue caused Mr S 
some inconvenience, there was undoubtedly a delay in his account being opened. But Im 
satisfied that with everything Ive seen £100 is appropriate compensation for the impact of 
what has happened here. I appreciate that Mr S does not agree, but compensation is very 
subjective, what one person feels is enough will often feel too low for someone else. I am 
though satisfied that the offer Virgin has made is in line with what I would have awarded, so I 
wont be asking it to do anything more.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Virgin should pay Mr S £150 to compensate him for losign out on 
the 15,000 Virgin points. Virgin should also pay him the £100 additional compensation it has 
offered, if it hasnt done so already.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should put things right 
in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman