DRN-4011483
Complaint
Mr B has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) 
rejected his claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. (The Act
Background 
Mr B bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in June 2011. The purchase 
was funded in part by Mr Bs Barclays credit card, and that business is therefore liable for 
the acts and omissions of the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr B 
alleges that the supplier misled Mr B into believing that he would recover the cost of the 
system within a couple of years through the benefits received from the system. So in other 
words, that the system would be self-funding. 
Barclays refused to accept Mr Bs claim on the grounds that his claim was brought too late 
so Mr B referred the complaint to our service. It was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. Our investigator agreed with Barclays that the claim had 
been made out of time 
Mr B disagreed and wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint remaining unhappy that 
his claim had not been considered. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has explained why this service has jurisdiction to consider the merits of the 
complaint Mr B made about Barclays rejecting his section 75 claim. As neither party 
disagreed with this, I wont comment on it any further. 
I have reviewed the information provided to us in order to reach a fair and reasonable
outcome on this complaint. Having done so, for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator, Im not going to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, Im
required to take into account: relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,
guidance and standards and codes of practice.
As Mr B paid for the system with a Barclays credit card, Barclays agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr B could claim against Barclays, the creditor, 
for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could 
have claimed against the supplier. So, if the claim against the supplier of the solar panels 
has likely expired under the Limitation Act, then that is something Barclays could take into 
account when it considers Mr Bs claims against it.
Under the Limitation Act, Mr B had six years from the date upon which he suffered a loss as 
a result of the misrepresentation to bring his claim. So this means the damage occurred 
when Mr B suffered a financial loss as a result of purchasing the system. 
Mr B says that as a result of the suppliers misrepresentation, he paid to enter an
agreement which has caused him to suffer a loss and but for the misrepresentation, he 
wouldnt have entered into the contract at all and therefore wouldnt have paid any money to 
the supplier.
So, I think the point of loss was the point at which the transaction was entered into, which
was in June 2011. Thats the moment when he accepted any potential benefit under the
contract, and it was also the moment he accepted the cost under the contract.
The time limit applicable to misrepresentation is six years from the date of loss. So, Mr B 
needed to raise a claim no later than June 2017. As I understand it, Mr B raised his claim in 
2022, which is more than 6 years after the loss occurred.
Mr B has indicated thats its only after a couple of years had passed, that he realised the 
benefits produced by the system would not cover the cost of the system and therefore the 
system had been misrepresented to him. He therefore feels, the date of event complained 
about occurred a few years after the transaction. 
But the time limits set out for misrepresentation claims such as this, start to run from the date 
of loss, which may fall earlier than the date he became aware that something might have 
gone wrong. 
Mr B and Barclays also appear to agree that the credit card transaction was also paid off in 
June 2011 and no further payments were made from the credit card in relation to the solar 
panel system after this date. So it looks like the credit with which the system was purchased 
also ended in June 2011. 
Ultimately, it is for the courts to decide whether any claim Mr B may have against the 
supplier or the creditor has expired under the Limitation Act. However, given the above, it 
seems to me that Mr Bs misrepresentation claim against the supplier and the therefore his 
claim against Barclays more than likely exceeded the relevant time limits set out in the 
Limitation Act. So, it would not be unreasonable for Barclays to take this into account when 
considering the section 75 claim against it. 
Having considered this complaint carefully, given that the claim is now more than likely time 
barred under the Limitation Act, I think Barclays decision to not consider the claim, wasnt 
unfair or unreasonable. 
I appreciate this is likely to be disappointing for Mr B and Im sorry we cant help him on this 
occasion. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman