DRN-4167684
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the way his motor insurer, Soteria Insurance Limited (Soteria) 
recorded an incident he had reported to it.
 
Soteria is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Throughout the claim Mr C was also 
dealing with other companies who act as Soterias agents. As Soteria has accepted it is 
accountable for the actions of the agents, in my decision, any reference to Soteria includes 
the actions of the agents.
What happened
In February 2021 Mr Cs car was damaged as he was reversing out of his driveway. He 
reported this incident to Soteria but said he wasnt going to claim under his policy as there 
was no other party involved. 
Soteria recorded the incident on an external database. Mr C was unhappy about this as he 
said this increased his subsequent insurance premiums. He added that this is something 
that will stay on his record for five years and asked Soteria to remove it. 
Mr C complained to Soteria in 2023 but it didnt uphold his complaint. It said that Mr C must 
report such incidents to it as part of his policys terms and conditions. It also said that it is its 
business process to keep a record of incidents on its system and to also record them on the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE)  an external database used by insurers use. So 
it said it wouldnt be possible to remove the entry from CUE. Soteria also confirmed that the 
incident was recorded as notification only and that Mr Cs no claims bonus (NCB) hadnt 
been affected. 
Mr C then complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
reviewed the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She didnt think Soteria did 
anything that wasnt in line with its terms and conditions or with industry practice. 
Mr C didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He said he feels that he was 
penalised for simply asking for advice and that this could be affecting hundreds of other 
consumers who may be being penalised by insurers in the same way.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with regret for the disappointment this may cause, I have decided not 
to uphold it. 
Mr Cs policy says that he must tell Soteria about any incident which may give rise to a claim 
whether or not a claim is made. Soteria will then pass this information on to databases such 
as CUE. The policy also says that Soteria exchanges information with various databases to 
help it check information provided, to detect and prevent crime or fraud and to obtain 
information about an insureds no claims history. 
I dont think this term is unusual or unfair and seems to be in line with industry practice. So 
I think Soteria should be able to rely on this term. Also as far as we are aware insurers who 
are signed up to CUE have a duty to keep an accurate record of incidents reported to them. 
So I think the actions Soteria took in this regard are fair and reasonable.
I have seen the entry on CUE. As Soteria said, it shows that the incident was recorded as 
notification only with £0 payments made and NCB allowed. This is in line with our 
approach.
I appreciate Mr C feels that he was penalised for reporting an incident that he had no 
intention on claiming for. But as I said, in doing so, Mr C was (rightly) acting in line with the 
terms of his policy. 
Mr C feels that this is a tool insurers use to charge higher premiums and that this may be 
affecting hundreds of other consumers. As our Investigator explained we can only look at the 
individual complaints that come to us so I cant consider the potential impact Soterias or the 
industrys actions may have on other consumers. This is a matter for the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority. 
In terms of Mr C being charged a higher premium, each insurer can and does rate (risk 
assess) policies using its own criteria in order to arrive at a price. Whilst many will ask to be 
told about incidents, whether or not they result in a claim being made, some insurers might 
rate notification only incidents higher than others while others may not consider them a risk 
at all. This is a matter for each insurer and again not something we would look to interfere 
with.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman