DRN-3224050
The complaint
Mr G complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) will not allow him to cash in 
his annuities with it.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my provisional findings in a provisional 
decision. This is included below and forms part of this decision:
Mr G had two pensions with Aviva and in 2012 he enquired about taking his benefits. Aviva sent 
him the relevant documentation and Mr G selected to take the maximum tax-free cash available 
and an annuity from both plans. One annuity pays Mr G an annual amount of approximately £21 
and the other £121.
More recently, Mr G asked Aviva if he could cash in his annuity as he and his wife were struggling 
financially and they felt a lump sum would be of much more use to them. But Aviva declined to do 
so, it said it has discretion not to offer this. And it says it cannot make exceptions as it wouldnt be 
treating its customers fairly if it allowed some the option and not others.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G would like to cash-in his annuities, and so Ive considered whether this is something we can 
fairly tell Aviva it should offer Mr G.
Relevant considerations
DISP 3.6.4 R says that in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, I will take into account the relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
What are the regulations about cashing-in or commutation?
Various bits of legislation have helped form the current legislation that allow annuities to be 
cashed in. These include:
The Finance Act 2004 Section 164
The Finance Act 2004 Section 273B
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
- reg. 11 De minimis rule for pension schemes
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 
reg. 11A (inserted on 6/4/12)
Finance Act 2014 Section 42 Pension flexibility: taking low-value pension rights as lump 
sum
As a result of the above, the legislation in regard to commutation payments now reads:
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 .
PART 2 COMMUTATION PAYMENTS
reg. 11A
(1) A payment to a member by a pension scheme which is not a public service pension 
scheme or an occupational pension scheme in respect of an arrangement under that 
scheme if
(a)the member has reached normal minimum pension age or the ill-health condition is 
met (see paragraph 1 of Schedule 28) ;
(b)the payment does not exceed £10,000 ;
(c)the payment extinguishes the member's entitlement to benefits under the 
arrangement;
The Finance Act which allowed providers/schemes to over-ride the rules of the scheme and make 
payments that otherwise previously wouldnt have been allowed (which now includes cashing-in of 
annuities)  was a permissive over-ride. What this means is the schemes are allowed to make 
these payments if they wish to do so  it isnt mandatory legislation.
So in essence what the legislation says is a person in Mr Gs position doesnt have a right to 
commute their pension pot to a cash lump sum. However, if a provider wants to offer this it can, but 
only up to a limit of £10,000.
What are the relevant regulatory rules and guidance?
COBS 2.1 Acting honestly, fairly and professionally 
The client's best interests rule
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
Principles for Businesses
PRIN 2.1.1R The Principles
6 Customers' interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Guidance to firms:
FCA Alert to firms: Fair Treatment of Customers 12/05/2015
All firms must be able to show consistently that fair treatment of customers is at the heart of their 
business model.
Taken together, all of this means in essence that firms must take the best interests of their 
customers into account in the actions they take. However, this doesnt mean that it should act in 
the interest of a single (or a small group of) customer(s) which would be at the expense of other 
customers. Nor to act in a particular customers interest without consideration of other factors or 
wider implications.
Im aware of no other codes of practice that would apply here, other than the legislation and 
regulatory rules Ive referred to above. However Ive also considered:
-What would have been good industry practice at the relevant time? Im aware some 
providers have allowed commutation of small annuities in the past.-Contractual and other legal matters. Im aware that in some annuity contracts, there 
may be ownership issues (it may be subject to a separate contractual/legal 
arrangement with another party) or other lives attached to the annuity that could cause 
issues with commutation.
-Practical matters. For example, an annuity is a life-long insurance contract that is not 
designed to be cashed in. For that reason, it is often backed by long-term less liquid 
investments that may be more difficult to value or sell; and doing so might negatively 
affect the pricing of annuities for other customers.
The key questions that I need to consider in deciding what is fair and reasonable in this 
case
1.Does Aviva have discretion to commute Mr Gs annuity as requested? For example:
-Is the value under £10,000?
-Is Mr G the legal owner of the annuity?
-Is Aviva the other contracting party or has it been re-insured?
2.If Aviva is free to commute the annuity, would it have been in Mr Gs best interests to 
allow commutation? For example:
-Would it expose him to the risk of financial difficulty in the future?
-Would it affect other income that he relies on - such as state benefits being 
reduced due to the commutation payment?
3.If Aviva was free to grant Mr Gs request to commute the annuity and doing so would 
have been in his best interest, was it fair and reasonable for Aviva to refuse? In other 
words, did it exercise its discretion in a fair and reasonable way?
My findings in light of the above considerations
Aviva hasnt made any specific arguments in relation to this case as to why it isnt free to allow 
Mr G to cash-in the annuity. So I am proceeding on the basis that it does have discretion to 
commute his annuity.
Its also not provided any information specific to Mr G to show that he would be worse off if he 
were to commute the annuity to a cash lump sum. Having considered what Mr Gs told us and the 
value of his annuity, which together are paying him less than £150 a year, I agree the annuity is 
small enough that it doesnt appear to provide any meaningful income on which he relies. And a 
cash lump sum in place, even if relatively small, would most likely benefit him more than the 
annuity. For this reason and subject to the lump sum value (which hasnt been determined), Ive 
proceeded also on the basis that it would be in Mr Gs personal interest to encash the annuity.
This case therefore comes down to whether Aviva fairly took into account Mr Gs interests when 
it chose not to exercise its discretion to allow him to cash-in his annuity.
Aviva has told us its unwilling to offer Mr G a cash value at this point in time. Essentially 
because the annuity product wasnt designed to be cashed in. And so this presents a number of 
difficulties that cannot be overcome without significant undertakings which add risk, 
inconvenience and cost to its business and could result in poor customer outcomes. It made a 
number of points about this, for example:
-The government concluded that cashing in annuities may not produce good customer 
outcomes. Therefore, there is no agreed framework of how and who to offer this to.
-It cannot make exceptions without offering this more widely as it wouldnt be treating 
customers fairly.
-To offer this to all its qualifying customers could result in poor customer outcomes
-It would need to do a study of whether it is viable for its business and its customers.Up to the present day, it has decided that it isnt.
-It would also need to decide a framework of who could be offered this fairly  and it 
hasnt yet carried this out.
-Because of this it is not in position to change its stance regardless of values of 
individual annuities
Having thought about this very carefully, I think Avivas points are fair ones. I dont think Aviva 
simply disregarded Mr Gs interests in this case. Its position is based on its considerations of 
what allowing commutation could mean for its customers and business model more widely.
It seems to me that Aviva could avoid many of the challenges it has raised if it were to treat Mr 
Gs case as exceptional. The cost and impact in this one case would be small for a business the 
size of Aviva. However, I acknowledge Avivas difficulty here. Im not persuaded there is reason in 
Mr Gs case to treat him differently to other customers with small annuities. (Its my understanding 
that is a significant portion of customers.)
Ive kept in mind that Mr G would probably be better off with a cash lump sum and the annuity isnt 
useful to him. Ive balanced this against the fact that commutation wasnt something Mr G had a 
right to. And while Aviva was free to allow his request, Im satisfied it did have other legitimate 
interests to weigh up, including the way the annuity product was designed, the impact on Avivas 
existing systems and processes, the interests of its customers more widely and the potential cost.
On balance, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Aviva to decline Mr Gs request. It acted 
in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mr G in line with other customers.
We have seen that some providers are looking into their stance on cashing-in annuities. If in the 
future Aviva changes its position on cashing in annuities or legislation changes, its possible Mr G 
may benefit from such a change. But I cannot fairly say Aviva must change its position at present, 
in the circumstances Ive considered in this decision.
I appreciate Mr G will be disappointed with this but for the reasons explained I am not 
intending to uphold his complaint.
Mr G responded to the provisional decision, he had no further points to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings reached in my provisional 
decision. And so my final decision remains the same and as set out above.
In summary, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Aviva to decline Mr Gs request. It 
acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mr G in line with other customers.
I appreciate Mr G will be disappointed with my decision and that we werent able to help. But 
Id like to thank him for his patience whilst we looked into this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman