DRN-3675535
The complaint
Ms R complains that she suffered a financial loss due to exchange rate fluctuation when she 
asked TSB Bank plc (TSB) to return an international payment to her. 
What happened
Ms R had a sterling current account with TSB. She asked TSB to make a transfer of $17,880 
(equivalent to £13,471) to a US Bank account on 14 October 2021. An exchange rate of 
1.327269 had been used by TSB. But as Ms R had provided TSB with incorrect account 
details for the recipient, the funds were returned to her current account, having been 
converted into sterling by TSB on 21 October 2021. The amount returned was £12,549 
(equivalent to $17,842). An exchange rate of 1.421820 had been used by TSB. The original 
dollar amount had been reduced by a $38 charge. But the exchange rate used by TSB to 
convert the returned funds into sterling was significantly worse than that used for the initial 
transfer. As a result, Ms R had received £922 less than the original amount transferred 
within the space of seven days which she said was unfair.
Ms R accepted that TSB hadnt made the error which led to the return of the funds. She also 
understood that exchange rates move. But she noted that the Bank of Englands exchange 
rate information showed a spot rate of 1.3683 on 14 October 221 and a spot rate of 1.3821 a 
week later. If the spot rates had been used, she would only have been £157 out of pocket.
Ms R also said that it had been a stressful and time-consuming process to seek 
recompense. 
In its final response letter TSB said it hadnt made a mistake and provided information to    
Ms R about the exchange rates used and the sterling and dollar amounts sent and returned.
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
exchange rates which had been applied by TSB were agreed with Ms R before the 
transaction was completed. He also referred to the account terms which said that the 
standard exchange rate would be used, and that TSB would make Ms R aware of this rate 
before the transfer, and that the standard exchange rate would be used on the day of the 
conversion. He wasnt able to comment on the procedures which TSB used in terms of its 
exchange rate sources and processes. And in this instance as it had used a rate which Ms R 
was made aware of, he couldnt say it had done anything wrong.
Ms R disagreed. She referred to statements in the investigators view which said that the 
standard rates which had been applied by TSB were agreed to before she completed the 
transaction, and that she was made aware of them before she agreed to the payment. She 
said that these statements were incorrect. Ms R hadnt been provided with the exchange 
rates used by TSB prior to the first payment that she made on 14 October 2021, and she 
wasnt  notified of the rate that was being applied to the return of those funds to her account 
on 21 October 2021. Ms R said she wasnt notified in any way about the return and only 
knew it had occurred as she was regularly monitoring her account. Had she been made 
aware of the rate to be applied prior to the transaction occurring she would have immediately 
contacted TSB and objected to the outrageous rate being proposed. But she wasnt afforded 
this opportunity.
Ms R also questioned what was meant by standard exchange rate. She referred to the spot 
rates published by the Bank of England on the same dates, which differed significantly from 
TSBs rates. She said that this suggested profiteering by TSB. Ms R couldnt see how this 
was considered fair. She also sent this Service an extract from TSBs website answering the 
question How will I know what foreign exchange rate has been used for my transaction. 
The investigator responded by issuing a second view. This referred to TSBs telephone 
script before a payment which dealt with charges to be paid and cancellation terms. He also 
noted that when the funds were returned, they werent in TSBs control. He also said that the 
decision about which exchange rate to use was down to TSB and was a commercial 
decision. He wasnt able to comment on a businesss processes. 
Ms R responded to say that the investigator had incorrectly interpreted the information shed 
provided regarding notification of exchange rates by TSB and therefore wrongly concluded 
that TSB followed its practices and procedures. The payment she asked to be made was in 
a foreign currency to a foreign currency bank account and so she should have been 
provided with the exchange rate prior to the payment being sent (in line with the information 
on TSBs website). This didnt occur. Even if her payment had been in Pounds Sterling, she 
should have received an SMS confirming the exchange rate used within 24 hours (if the next 
day was a working day). Again, this didnt occur. She received no notification at all. 
Ms R also said that there was no notification about the exchange rate applied to the return 
transaction, which caused her a large financial loss. Had there been a notification she would 
immediately have queried the very large difference in the rate from the initial transaction and 
the large discrepancy when compared to the official Bank of England spot rates. She found it 
hard to believe that the UK central banks rates had no relevance to those applied by banks 
in the UK and that they were not a reference point for whether customers were being fairly 
treated.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, as an 
ombudsman, to review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the difficulties Ms R experienced here. I can see how strongly she 
feels about the issues raised in this complaint. My role is to assess whether I think TSB 
made a mistake, or treated Ms R unfairly, in the way it dealt with her international payments.
I would firstly say that its clear that the return of the funds was due to Ms R providing 
incorrect information, and so TSB wasnt responsible for this. 
But Ms R is concerned about the exchange rates used by TSB when converting both 
payments into dollars. 
Ive looked at TSBs terms and conditions to see what these say about converting funds. 
These say it will use its standard exchange rate to convert the payment into the foreign 
currency. This will be the one that applies on the day it makes the payment. TSBs terms 
also say that the rate changes all the time so it will confirm the current rate before the 
payment is sent. 
I understand that Ms R feels strongly that the exchange rate used by TSB was unfair and 
that she lost money as a result. Ms R has queried what is meant by standard exchange rate. I asked the investigator to ask TSB to clarify in general terms how it calculated the 
exchange rate. It said that the rate changes on every attempt to issue an Outbound 
Payment. There is no standard rate it uses on a particular day and the system auto 
generates the exchange rate meaning there is no manual intervention.
I note that Ms R said that she wasnt provided with the exchange rate when she sent her 
payment. So, I asked the investigator to ask TSB about this. It said that customers are 
issued with the exchange rate that will be used, prior to their authorising the payment, and 
Ms R would not have been able to bypass the screen (on which the exchange rate appears) 
to complete her transaction. 
TSB has provided a copy of the final payment screen used for another customer (so I cannot 
provide Ms R with a copy of this). I can see that this shows the exchange rate, any fees, and 
it tells the customer to check the details and the terms and conditions before completing the 
transaction. The screen also asks the customer to enter their account password at the 
bottom of the form to confirm the payment and then to click continue to complete. I asked 
the investigator to share this information (other than the screen provided by TSB) with Ms R 
and to ask her for any comments on this information. The investigator has given her over a 
month to provide her comments,  but we havent received these from her. Taking everything 
into account, I think it unlikely that  Ms R wouldnt have been provided with the exchange 
rate before authorising the payment.
Whilst Ms R didnt provide any further comments in relation to the exchange rate used on the 
payment when it was made, she did say in relation to the payment received by TSB:-
I was given no warning that the money was being sent back to my account - and certainly 
had no notice of what exchange rate was going to used. Had I been advised, I would have 
queried the exchange rate at the time. This unfair practice is and always has been the basis 
of my complaint.
With regard to foreign currency payments received by TSB, its terms say it will convert the 
currency into pounds using its standard exchange rate on the day it makes the conversion. 
Customers can find out its exchange rates by calling it or asking in branch. 
I note that Ms R discovered the payment had been returned from monitoring her statements. 
So, the payment had already been converted into sterling. I think TSB had acted in line with 
its terms here  it had converted the payment using its standard exchange rate. I find that 
TSB treated the payment in the way it said it would in its terms and conditions. There is no 
obligation in the terms and conditions for TSB to notify customers before converting foreign 
currency payments it receives. It sets its own processes and the terms and conditions do set 
out the way this account operates. 
I understand Ms R feels the rates used by TSB werent in line with the Bank of England spot 
rate. I can see that the Bank of Englands website says, Please note : the exchange rates 
are not official rates and are no more authoritative than that of any commercial bank 
operating in the London foreign exchange market. 
Overall, its not the role of this Service to tell TSB what exchange rates to use and that it 
must make available to its customer the method of calculating these rates. Im aware this 
information may be commercially sensitive, and I cant tell TSB it must divulge this. While   
Ms R feels TSB has profiteered by applying the exchange rate it did, Im aware that 
exchange rates are subject to regular changes from time to time and TSB is free to set its 
conversion rate in line with its commercial judgement. I think its reasonable to say that most 
businesses carrying out a currency conversion will either apply a margin to the rates used, a 
fee or both. Each business can set the rates its willing to offer.  I also note that Ms R was aware that financial institutions generally apply a margin to exchange rates. So overall, I 
cant say that TSB acted unreasonably in not using the Bank of England spot rate.
I also note that TSB apologised to Ms R for the error it made in its final response letter with 
regard to its quoting the wrong exchange rates.
So, while I can see Ms Rs argument and appreciate the impact of whats happened, based 
on everything Ive seen, I dont think I have a reasonable basis to require TSB to do anything 
more.
I recognise that Ms R feels strongly about this, and shell be disappointed with my decision. 
But I hope that shell understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the decision 
that I have. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman