complaint  
Mr and Mrs C complain they were mis -sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by Sesame  
Limited.  
background  
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage through Sesame Limited, who were brokers of financial  
products, in 2006. At the same time they bought a PPI policy which would have covered their  
mortgage repayments for up to 12 months at a time if Mr C couldnt work due to an accident  
or sickness. The first three months of their cover was free.  
Mr and Mrs C say they were led to believe they needed to take the PPI to qualify for the  
lending. They say the cover wasnt right for them.  
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs C  
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findin gs 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Cs  
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.  
Mr and Mrs C say the PPI was recommended to them without explanation and they  
understood it would make their mortgage offer easier  to obtain. Mr and Mrs C say they just  
did what they were told without question and had no idea what the policy really was.  
Mr and Mrs C havent explained what was said or done to make them think this way. And  
they havent explained who did it.  
Sesame Lim ited has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage offer. This was from a  
separate company to the PPI provider. It made it clear that Mr and Mrs C didnt have to take  
any insurance from any business, other than building insurance (which could be from any  
provider). So I dont think Mr and Mrs C could have thought from this that they had to take  
PPI to get the mortgage. If Mr and Mrs C had been led to believe otherwise by any party I  
think theyd have questioned this when they saw the mortgage offer.  
I am satisifed, on the evidence available, that if Mr and Mrs C thought they had to have PPI it  
wasnt as a result of anything Sesame Limited did wrong  
Its not clear whether Sesame Limited provided Mr and Mrs C with a personal 
recommendation for the PPI. I ha ve worked on the basis that it did, because it holds the firm  
DRN-1476450to a higher standard. It means Sesame Limited had to take reasonable steps to make sure  
the cover was right for Mr and Mrs C.  
 
Looking at Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time I think the pol icy was suitable. I say this  
because:  
 
 Mr C, whom the policy covered, was eligible for the PPI and wasnt affected by any  
terms which might have made it more difficult to make a successful claim, such as  
those related to existing medical conditions;  
 Mr C says that he wasnt told back pain wouldnt be covered by the PPI if he was off  
work for this reason. Mr C says that because of his occupation it was the most likely  
reason for him to be off work sick. Iv e looked at the policy and back pain and related  
issues are covered, but they need to have physical or radiological evidence of a  
medical abnormality or certification by a qualified consultant that the conditions  
prevented the insured from working. I dont  think this would have unreasonably  
prevented Mr C from making a successful claim for this problem;  
 Mr C was self -employed, so he didnt take unemployment cover because it wouldnt  
have been suitable for him;  
 As Mr C was self -employed he wouldnt have rece ived any sick pay. He was in  
business with his father and he says hed have hoped to have family financial support  
if he couldnt work. While Im certain his family would have wanted to help out if they  
could, this help couldnt be guaranteed. And its not  clear the business could have  
continued to pay Mr C if he wasnt working;  
 Mr C has also said that his wife was working at the time and could have helped pay  
the mortgage. But Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage application notes that Mrs C was  
medically retired and s o she wasnt working and, it seems, didnt have a prospect of  
being able to work if Mr C couldnt;  
 The cost of the policy was clear and it was comparable to other similar policies  
available around the same time. It was flexible, because it could be cancell ed without  
financial penalty at any time. And I havent seen anything to suggest it was  
unaffordable for Mr and Mrs C.  
 
Its possible that Sesame Limited didnt provide Mr and Mrs C with all the information it  
should have done. But even if Mr and Mrs C had all the information they needed I dont think  
theyd have acted differently and not bought the policy, because it was suitable for their  
needs in the way Ive described above.  
 
So, on balance, I dont think Mr and Mrs C lost out because of anything Ses ame Limited  
might have done wrong.  
 
my final decision  
 
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, so it follows that Sesame Limited doesnt have  
to pay any compensation.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to  
accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2020.  
 
Sally Allbeury  
Ombudsman  