DRN-3408435
The complaint
Ms L complains that she was mis-sold a Select Account (SA) in 2002 and a Platinum 
Account in 2006 by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. The facts are not in dispute, so 
Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L says that she did not ask for the SA or the PA, but was just given them, so she thought 
she no choice but to take them.
Lloyds says that it recommended the SA and PA to Ms L and she chose to take them out 
based on the information it had provided.
These sales took place over 15 years ago and I wasnt present so I cant know what if 
anything was said. I can only base my decision on the evidence available today.
Both parties agree that Ms L had a fee free account before she had the SA and PA, so she 
knew these had been available. Fee free bank accounts were widely advertised and 
available at the time of the sales from Lloyds and other financial institutions. And I think that 
if Ms L hadnt wanted to pay for the SA or the PA, she would have challenged the charges at 
the time and found what she wanted elsewhere.
So, while I dont doubt Ms Ls honest recollections, I think her memory is mistaken. And I 
think its more likely than not that Ms L knew she had a choice and chose to take out both 
the SA and the PA.
Lloyds says that it recommended the SA and the PA to Ms L. So, it was required to ensure 
they were suitable for her and to provide enough information for her to make an informed 
decision.
When Lloyds recommended the SA to Ms L in 2002, its main benefits were a car breakdown 
service, a £50 interest and charge free overdraft and substantial discounts on loans. At the 
time Ms L says she had a car and she went on to save money from the overdraft and loan 
benefits. When mobile phone insurance became part of the product three months later, she 
also registered her phone.
So, on that evidence, I cant say I think its more likely than not that the SA was not suitable 
for Ms L or that she didnt get enough information to understand the SA. I also cant see that 
there was anything that Lloyds didnt tell Ms L about the SA that would have put her off.
When Lloyds recommended the PA to Ms L in 2006, she was an experienced user of 
packaged bank accounts. And Lloyds has a record of Ms L saying she was interested in the 
PA for the enhance travel and car breakdown cover that were only available with the PA. So 
again, I dont think I can say that the PA was unsuitable for her or that she didnt have 
enough information about the product in the sale.
So, overall, I think its more likely than not Lloyds didnt do anything wrong in these sales.
For completeness I note that Lloyds returned Ms Ls premiums for the PA after July 2016 for 
the reasons it gave Ms L in its reply to her, and this doesnt affect my considerations above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman