DRN-3012087
The complaint
Mr M has complained that when he made a claim for damage to his mobile phone, American 
International Group UK Limited (AIG) provided him with an unacceptable replacement.
References I make to AIG in this decision include its claims handling agents.
What happened
Mr M has an insurance policy with AIG that covers his mobile phone. This is provided as a 
benefit by his bank for holding a Silver account.
When his phone was damaged, Mr M made a claim under his mobile phone insurance 
policy. This claim led to Mr M raising two complaints with AIG. The first, which was that there 
had been a delay in returning his phone to him when it was found to be unrepairable, was 
settled by AIG making a payment to him of £60. 
Mr Ms second complaint was that the replacement phone that AIG provided him with was 
white. Mr Ms original phone was black. Mr M says the white phone is unacceptable to him 
and he wont use it. As AIG has said that it isnt able to provide him with a black 
replacement, he purchased a new one.
Mr M wants AIG to collect the unused white phone and pay him £200 for the phone and 
£200 for his inconvenience in not having the unwanted phone replaced for six months. 
Alternatively, he wants AIG to provide him with a replacement black phone and £200 for his 
inconvenience.
AIG has referred Mr M to the terms of his policy. The relevant section states: 
h. If your phone is being replaced, [AIGs agent] will try to provide you with the same 
make and model of phone, although it may be a different colour. In the unlikely event 
that [AIGs agents] suppliers do not have your phone in stock, [AIGs agent] will offer 
you an alternative phone. This will be at least the equivalent technical specification of 
your phone but may be a different make, model or operating system or have different 
features and functions.
So any replacement phone may not be the same make, model, colour or operating system 
as the one it is replacing.
Mr M has also complained to his bank, who responded by referring him to AIGs final 
response and how he could complain if he was dissatisfied with this. Mr M says he wasnt 
aware of the terms of the mobile phone insurance policy that hed benefit from before he 
agreed to upgrade to his banks Silver bank account. He says he wouldnt have paid for this 
upgrade if hed known what the terms of the mobile phone policy were.
As he wasnt satisfied with AIGs response to his complaint about the colour of his 
replacement phone, he brought it to this service. Our investigator s view was that AIG had 
acted in accordance with the terms of Mr Ms policy and so hadnt acted unfairly. Mr M 
doesnt agree with our investigators view so his complaint has been referred to me to make 
a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint, and Ill explain why.
I should firstly explain that my decision can deal only with Mr Ms complaint about AIG and 
how it dealt with his claim. I cant deal with his complaint to his bank. If Mr M is dissatisfied 
about the information he was given by his bank about the mobile phone policy when he was 
upgrading to a Silver account, he should bring a separate complaint about his bank to this 
service.
Im also not going to address Mr Ms initial complaint about the delay in returning his 
damaged phone to him so he could receive a replacement as this has already been 
addressed by the payment of £60 compensation which I consider to be reasonable.
For me to uphold Mr Ms complaint about the colour of the replacement phone he received, I 
would need to be satisfied that AIG had acted unfairly or unreasonably. Having considered 
the terms of Mr Ms policy, I think its clear that AIG has acted within the terms of the policy. 
This clearly states that any replacement phone can be a different colour to the one that its 
replacing. It can also be a different make or model. I think its quite understandable that a 
customer would wish to receive a replacement phone that was identical to, or better than, 
the one being replaced. But AIG has specifically included as a policy term that while it will try 
to do this, it wont always be possible.
So whilst I can understand Mr Ms disappointment in not receiving a black replacement 
phone, I cant say that AIG has acted unfairly or unreasonably as its acting in line with the 
terms of his policy. Im therefore not going to ask it to replace his phone or to pay any further 
compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman