DRN-3061112
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs S have complained that New Mount Reclaim Limited, trading as Money 
Reclaim Experts (NMR) didnt give them consistent  or sometimes any  information 
about their claims for payment protection insurance (PPI) refunds.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs S have told us they instructed NMR after receiving a telephone call from the 
business, offering their services to recover PPI.  NMR took details from them and contacted 
a number of lenders.   Three of those claims were successful and Mr A and Mrs S paid NMR 
for their services.  
At the end of 2019, Mr A and Mrs S called NMR to check on their outstanding claims.  They 
were told there were still five of these, one of which had been referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.  
Mr A and Mrs S called again a month later and were told that all their claims would be settled 
by April 2020.  But they didnt hear anything by then, so they called NMR again in May.  This 
time, they were told they had no outstanding claims.
Mr A and Mrs S complained to NMR about the inconsistent information theyd been given.  
NMR didnt reply to their complaint.  So Mr A and Mrs S brought it to our service.
Our investigator asked NMR to provide their business files so he could investigate.  NMR 
didnt respond.  So our investigator came to his view using information from Mr A and Mrs S.  
He concluded that NMR hadnt treated them fairly.  He found out that NMR hadnt provided 
information requested by the Financial Ombudsman Service  so that claim was closed.  
And he established that at least one of the lenders to whom a claim should have been made 
had never received one.  
The investigator couldnt say whether those claims would have resulted in a refund to Mr A 
and Mrs S.  But, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, he was satisfied that theyd 
lost the opportunity to make those claims.  He said NMR should pay Mr A and Mrs S £250 
compensation for losing that opportunity.
NMR didnt respond to the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr As and Mrs Ss complaint.  Ill explain why.
Like our investigator, Ive not had any information from NMR to consider  so Ive based my 
decision on the information from Mr A and Mrs S.  Ive no reason to doubt what theyve told 
us.  And its consistent with the other information I have - which shows NMR failed to pursue 
at least two PPI claims.  So Im satisfied that NMR didnt pursue the claims as Mr A and   
Mrs S had been led to believe they would.
Putting things right
Ive thought about what NMR should do to put things right.  The deadline for making PPI 
claims passed more than two years ago  so its no longer possible for NMR to make the 
claims Mr A and Mrs S expected them to.
I cant say whether those claims would have been successful.  But I am satisfied Mr A and 
Mrs S lost the opportunity to find out.  I agree with our investigator they should be 
compensated for that loss of opportunity.  And I agree that £250 is the right level of 
compensation for that.  
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr As and Mrs Ss complaint about New 
Mount Reclaim Limited, trading as Money Reclaim Experts and directing NMR to pay them 
£250 for losing the opportunity to pursue their PPI claims.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman