DRN-2900283
The complaint
Mr S complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (which Ill refer to under its 
trading name of Alphera) ended a hire purchase agreement, even though he had made the 
contractual payments required of him.  
What happened
In March 2019 Mr S entered into a hire purchase agreement with Alphera. Under the 
agreement Mr S was to take a car for four years for monthly payments of just over £305.
As part of the application process Mr S completed a direct debit instruction. That should 
have enabled Alphera to take the monthly payments from his bank account in the usual way. 
However, Mr S completed the details for his savings account; he does not have a current 
account and, for reasons which are not entirely clear, is unable to open one. He explained 
that it had always been his intention to arrange payments from his wifes account and, 
indeed, it seems that this is what happened.
Alphera said however that the hire purchase agreement required that Mr S made payments 
from a current account in his name or in joint names with someone else. He only had a 
savings account and was unable to open a current account or to be added to his wifes 
account. Alphera said that Mr S was in breach of the hire purchase agreement and, in 
August 2019, terminated it and repossessed the car. This left a balance due under the 
agreement.
Mr S thought that was unfair and referred the matter to this service, where one of our 
investigators considered what had happened. She took the view that it was unfair to end the 
hire purchase agreement when payments were being made and recommended that Alphera 
write off any shortfall under the agreement and remove any adverse information it had 
placed on Mr Ss credit file.
Alphera did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.  
I did that and indicated that I was broadly in agreement with the investigators conclusions. I 
was concerned however that there might be further evidence that I had not seen and so 
issued a provisional decision. 
I noted that Mr S had not missed any payments but also said that his obligations under the 
hire purchase agreement were not limited to making payments on time. 
Alphera had said that Mr S was in breach of other obligations and referred specifically to a 
requirement that all payments should come from a bank account in Mr Ss name. Like the 
investigator, I commented that there did not appear to be any such provision in the hire 
purchase agreement. The documentation set out how much needed to be paid and when, 
but was silent on the method of payment. 
Alphera had also said that there were events that materially affected Mr Ss ability to pay, but 
it had not explained why  even if that were the case  it put him in default such that Alphera 
could end the agreement. In conclusion, I said that I thought Alphera should write of any 
shortfall due under the agreement, remove any adverse credit information in respect of it and 
pay Mr S £300 in recognition of the inconvenience to which he had been put. 
Mr S accepted my provisional conclusions and Alphera said it had nothing to add.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since the parties have either accepted my provisional findings or provided no further 
evidence or arguments in response to them, there is no reason for me to reach a different 
conclusion about Mr Ss complaint. I will however make a formal award in the same terms.  
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Ss complaint, BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
should:
write off any shortfall due under the hire purchase agreement;
remove any adverse credit information it has registered in respect of the agreement; 
and
pay Mr S £300 in recognition of the inconvenience to which he has been put.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman