DRN-2820784
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with The Mortgage Works (UK) plc (TMW) as they did not pass on a 
reduction in interest rates to existing customers. 
What happened
On 31 March 2020 Mr H applied online for a new mortgage interest rate for his existing buy-
to-let (BTL) TMW mortgage. Mr H accepted a fixed rate of 2.99% until 30 April 2022 which 
started on 1 May 2020.
  
Soon after Mr Hs new rate began he became aware TMW had reduced the interest rates on 
their fixed rate products. Mr H says he had been assured by TMW that they were not 
expecting any imminent rate reductions so he says they misled him. 
TMW explained the rate reductions in question related to the product range for new 
customers only. On learning this Mr H raised a complaint as he didnt think this was fair for 
existing customers.
 
TMW said it was their choice to offer new customers different products so they could attract 
new business and said that their existing customers were offered competitive products 
against those similarly available in the market.
 
Separately TMW credited Mr Hs account with £50 to acknowledge an administration error to 
do with the handling of the complaint. 
Our investigator concluded Mr Hs complaint should not be upheld. In summary, they said 
TMW were able to decide what rates they wished to offer their different customers and it 
wasnt for our service to say what the lender should do. 
Mr H disagreed. He said the Bank of England reduced interest rates to stimulate the 
economy due to covid, but this benefit was never passed on to existing customers despite 
the Bank of Englands intention. Our investigator explained this didnt change their view of 
Mr Hs complaint and as Mr H and the investigator were unable to agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for broadly the same reasons as the investigator, I dont think Mr Hs 
complaint should be upheld. 
Part of Mr Hs complaint is that TMW staff didnt let him know they would be dropping their 
rates despite him asking about this before he switched his own BTL mortgage rate. 
Ive not seen any record of what Mr H may or may not have been told (TMW say they have 
no evidence of the call in question between TMW and Mr H). But I would say its not unusual 
for staff to only find out about a change in interest rates with very short notice. Mr Hs offer to 
switch rates was dated 31 March 2020 and his new rate started on 1 May 2020. TMW 
changed their rates for new customers several days after Mr Hs own new rate started. So 
given the time passed between Mr H accepting the offer and TMW changing some of their 
rates, I think its fair to say TMW staff wouldnt have known this was going to happen at the 
time Mr H says he made his enquiry. So I dont think Mr H wouldve been misled here. 
TMW explained to Mr H that the reduced rates were only available to new customers so as 
to attract business - Mr H thinks this is unfair. 
As our investigator explained, it is for TMW to decide the rates they offer their customers. In 
my experience its not unusual for mortgage companies to offer new mortgage customers a 
different rate as part of their marketing strategy, and so this is quite common in the industry.
Im also mindful Mr H had access to the rates available for existing customers, so I dont 
think hes been treated unfairly or differently to any other existing customer. And Mr H had 
also already agreed to his new interest rate before TMW changed their rates for new 
customers. So any later reductions in interest rates, to new or existing customers wouldnt 
be applied retrospectively anyway. That is, in these circumstances it would be unreasonable 
to change Mr Hs rate given he had already accepted it. TMW also confirmed that existing 
customer rates had not changed when they dropped the rates for new customers.
 
I understand Mr H feels the benefit of the drop in the Bank of England base rate wasnt 
passed on to existing customers, but it is TMWs decision on how they set their rates as part 
of their marketing strategy. Mr H chose to take out that product as it was at the time and he 
had the choice to shop around to see if there were other rates that were more attractive to 
him.
Overall, I understand Mr Hs frustrations, but Ive not seen anything to suggest TMW have 
treated Mr H unfairly in the circumstances of this case. Any broader concerns Mr H has 
about businesss practices can be raised with the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman