DRN-3985433
The complaint
Miss P complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont reimburse a payment sent from her 
account which she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it 
again here. Instead, Ill provide an overview and focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Miss P received a call from someone purporting to be from Monzo. They said theyd 
called in relation to suspicious activity on her account. Miss P states the caller 
already knew some of her details  name, address, and last few transactions. She 
entered a PIN thinking she was completing security verification, but in fact Miss P 
had approved setting up of an Apple Pay token. 
Miss P didnt recognise some of the transactions the caller listed, and they asked her 
to move money from her savings pots into the main account before they could 
cancel her debit card. The caller then instructed Miss P to approve one of the 
unrecognised transactions  for £502.99  before it could be refunded. She states 
she clicked on the transaction in her Monzo app but didnt approve it as she became 
suspicious. But the transaction went through anyway.
Monzo declined to refund the money and said it wasnt possible for the transaction to 
have been authorised by anyone else. Our investigator didnt agree with Monzo  
they thought that Miss P hadnt authorised the disputed transaction. They 
recommended Monzo to reimburse her in full along with interest, plus £100 
compensation for not mitigating her worries sooner. Miss P accepted the 
investigators outcome, but Monzo didnt. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide, and I contacted Miss P informally to 
explain why I intended reaching a different outcome to the investigator. Miss P 
reiterated that while she did enter a PIN for setting up Apple Pay (albeit she didnt 
know that at the time), she didnt enter a PIN to approve a payment transaction.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything that has happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read 
and considered everything thats been provided. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it for the following reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), broadly speaking, 
Miss P isnt liable for payments she hasnt authorised, unless she failed with intent or 
gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account or keep her personalised 
security details safe. And Miss P is liable for payments shes authorised. 
The PSRs explain that authorisation depends on whether the payment transaction 
was authenticated correctly and whether the consumer consented to it.
Monzo has provided technical evidence which shows that Miss Ps card details were 
entered on the merchants website and the payment transaction was approved using 
a PIN via her Monzo app. Given Miss Ps security credentials were used, as far as 
authentication goes, Im satisfied that the disputed transaction was authenticated 
correctly.
Thinking about consent next, the PSRs state how consent is given. It must be in the 
form and in accordance with the procedure agreed between the consumer and the 
payment service provider. In other words, consent is provided when the consumer 
completes the agreed steps for making a transaction or allows someone else to 
complete some or all of them.
Miss P says the caller told her she had to approve the disputed transaction before it 
could be refunded. In response to my recent email, she confirmed it was her 
understanding that if she approved the transaction, it would leave her account before 
being refunded. Miss P reiterated that while the transaction approval screen did 
come up, she didnt approve it as what the caller had told her didnt make sense.
I acknowledge Miss Ps comments that she didnt approve the payment transaction. 
But the technical evidence Ive seen from Monzo shows that it was approved via her 
Monzo app. Miss Ps previously said that she wasnt asked to (and therefore didnt) 
download any app on her phone, and Monzos confirmed that her account wasnt 
accessed using another device at the time of the payment. Having considered the 
evidence, even if she was duped into doing so, Im satisfied that the most likely 
scenario here is that the transaction was approved by Miss P herself. And in doing 
so, she gave consent for the payment to be made.
Even though Miss P might not have completed all the agreed steps to make the 
transaction (such as entering her card details on the merchants website), she 
understood that by approving the transaction a payment would leave her account. 
So, under the PSRs, the transaction would be treated as being authorised. That 
means that the starting position is that Miss P would be considered liable for the 
payment. I recognise that she may not have benefitted from what was purchased, but 
thats not a consideration for whether the payment was authorised.
Ive gone on to consider Monzos responsibility to protect customers from financial 
harm, even where a payment has been authorised by the consumer. I recognise that 
Miss P lost just over £500. I also acknowledge that the transaction is higher than the 
usual spending on her account. But I dont consider it that unusual such that I think 
Monzo ought to have paused it and made enquiries. After all, it isnt unusual for 
customers to make a one-off larger payment from their account. Ultimately, banks 
have a balance to strike between protecting their customer from fraud and executing 
a properly authorised transaction within a reasonable period. Considering Monzos 
wider responsibilities, I dont think it ought to have regarded this transaction as 
suspicious or an indication that Miss P might have been at the risk of falling victim to 
a scam. So, I dont consider it was unreasonable for Monzo to have released the 
payment.In summary, I recognise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Miss P. 
Not least because the matter has been ongoing for some time and our investigator 
previously upheld this complaint. But in the circumstances, Im not persuaded that 
Monzo can fairly or reasonably be held liable for Miss Ps loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman