DRN-3646606
The complaint
Mr W complains Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin money (Virgin) failed to promptly 
close his credit card account.  
What happened
Mr W says in late May 2022 he paid off the balance of his Virgin credit card account and 
emailed them the same day to close his account. Mr W says he received an email from 
Virgin saying it was unable to close the account that day. Mr W says he has had previous 
issues with Virgin and there was no reason why it couldnt have closed his account when he 
asked. Mr W wants Virgin to pay him compensation for the inconvenience this has caused 
him and for Virgin to acknowledge its mistake. 
Virgin says it was unable to close Mr Ws credit card account when he asked them as it was 
waiting for his payment to clear and a transaction on the account was still pending. Virgin 
says it closed the account three days after receiving Mr Ws request. 
Mr W wasnt happy with Virgins response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says while he understood Mr W was frustrated, Virgin would have needed to 
ensure all pending transactions were cleared before the credit card account could be closed. 
The investigator didnt feel it had done anything wrong. 
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand Mr W was frustrated by the fact Virgin told him it couldnt immediately close 
his credit card account, although he had paid off the outstanding balance. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Virgin were at fault for not closing Mr Ws 
credit card account on the day he emailed them, asking it to do so. 
Mr Ws complaint centres around the fact he had paid monies into his credit card account 
bringing the balance to zero, but Virgin refused to close it that same day. 
Although I can understand Mr W may have been keen to close his Virgin credit card account 
the day he had brought the balance to zero, in part because he says hed experienced 
service issues before  here I can only consider if the actions it took were fair on this 
occasion. 
From the information I have seen Virgin were waiting for a pending transaction to clear the 
account before it could close it and I cant say thats unreasonable of them.
Whats important here is when considering if compensation should be paid, is the level of 
inconvenience this matter would have caused  but here on the day Mr W complained to 
Virgin, three days after he requested his account to be closed, it did that and said it was 
sorry he felt it had felt short of his expectations. 
With that in mind I cant see Virgin have made any errors here and dealt with Mr Ws 
concerns on the day he raised them  so Im satisfied it doesnt need to award any 
compensation to Mr W. 
While Mr W will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Virgin here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman