DRN-3280143
The complaint
Miss M has complained that St Andrews Insurance Plc has declined a claim she made for 
unemployment on her mortgage payment protection insurance policy.
What happened
Miss M had made a previous claim for unemployment that ended in July 2021, having paid 
out for the maximum 12 months benefit available under the policy.
In August 2021 Miss M started a temporary job that ended in September 2021. Miss M then 
made a further claim on the policy which appeared to have been initially accepted by St 
Andrews. However, St Andrews subsequently declined the claim on the basis that Miss M 
had not returned to work for six months since the previous claim and therefore did not meet 
the requalification period set out in the policy.
In response to Miss Ms complaint, St Andrews maintained its decision to decline the claim. 
However, it accepted that Miss M had been given incorrect information over the phone on 
more than one occasion and offered her £150 for distress and inconvenience.
Our adjudicator thought that St Andrews had fairly declined the claim in accordance with the 
policy terms. However, he recommended that St Andrews should increase its compensation 
offer to £300 to more fully reflect the distress caused to Miss M.
Miss M disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and thinks that St Andrews should pay her 
unemployment claim. St Andrews also disagrees with the adjudicators view because it 
considers that its original offer of £150 was appropriate. Therefore, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In June 2021, prior to her previous claim ending, Miss M spoke to St Andrews who advised 
her that she would be able to claim again if she took a temporary job that then came to an 
end as it would be through no fault of her own. As Miss Ms existing claim was so close to 
having paid out the maximum payout, the adviser should have explained that Miss M would 
need to meet a requalification period of having been in work again for six months before she 
could make any further claim.
Miss Ms new temporary position ended in mid-September 2021 after 18 days. She made a 
new claim on the policy and when she rang St Andrews for an update on 21 October 2021 
the adviser indicated that the claim had been approved although there was some 
disagreement about the start date. The next day, Miss M spoke to a supervisor who also 
said that the claim had been approved, apparently because she was simply reading the 
notes made by the adviser the previous day. However St Andrews later wrote to Miss M 
telling her that it was declining the claim.
The policy terms state:
We will not pay mortgage repayments benefit for unemployment:
 if you were not in work for a continuous period of 6 months before your unemployment (if 
you were not in work for 2 weeks or less, we will not count this as a break in your 
employment).
Based on the above terms, Miss Ms circumstances in September 2021 did not fit the criteria 
for having a new claim accepted because she had not been in continuous employment for 
six months. Therefore, it was reasonable for St Andrews to rely on the above term to 
ultimately decline the claim.
When making a decision, I look at what should have happened against what actually did 
happen. If errors occurred, then the aim is to put the consumer back in the position they 
would have been in if everything had happened properly.
In this case, if things had happened as they should have, Miss M would have been told right 
from the start that, after a maximum 12 month claim, she would not be able to make a further 
unemployment claim until she had been back in work for at least six months. If that had 
happened, she would have been in no doubt that she would not be able to claim after her 
short-term temporary employment ended in September 2021.
It is not in dispute that St Andrews initially told Miss M that her claim had been accepted. 
But it does not follow that it should now pay the claim. Because the claim would not have 
paid out if St Andrews had not made that mistake. 
The position that Miss M would have been in if her claim had been correctly declined from 
the start was the same as the position that she did indeed find herself in  unemployed and 
with the claim not paying out. So, her financial situation is no worse as a result of St 
Andrews error.
The mistake that St Andrews made was to give Miss M the wrong information and therefore 
it is reasonable that it should provide her with some compensation for that. St Andrews 
thinks that its offer of £150 was fair. However, Im not persuaded that it has considered the 
full impact on Miss M. She says that she borrowed money from others, telling them that 
shed be able to pay them back once she received the claim payout. Therefore it would have 
been embarrassing for her and put her in an awkward situation, when that turned out not to 
be the case. On balance I agree with our adjudicator that £300 is a more appropriate amount 
to compensate Miss M for the distress and inconvenience she suffered.
My final decision
My decision is that I partly uphold Miss Ms complaint. St Andrews Insurance Plcs 
declination of the unemployment claim was reasonable, in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy. However, St Andrews Insurance Plc should pay Miss M £300 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused as a result of giving her incorrect information 
about the claim having been accepted.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 May 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman