DRN-4085552
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to pay him a dividend. 
What happened
In November 2022 Mr M sold a holding of shares in the HSBC Global Strategy Adventurous 
Portfolio. Shortly after, he complained to HSBC that he hadnt received an associated 
dividend payment. He said hed been holding the shares at the ex-dividend date of 16 
October 2022, so hed been entitled to receive the dividend, but it seemed he hadnt.
HSBC explained there was no issue with the ex-dividend date. Rather, because Mr M held 
accumulation shares, he wouldnt have received the dividend as an income payment. It said 
that with this class of shares, the dividends were reinvested in the fund, and this was then 
reflected in the price of the shares. HSBC highlighted that this process was explained in the 
portfolio prospectus and also on the statements issued to him.   
Mr M didnt accept this and referred the complaint to this service. But our investigator 
considered that HSBC had acted correctly and didnt need to do anything more. He said 
HSBC had confirmed that it was a requirement that the dividend payments were shown on 
the statements, even with accumulation shares, but the disclaimer on the statement 
explained the payment situation.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators opinion, so the matters been referred to me to review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as that reached by the investigator and 
for the same reasons.
As noted, Mr M held accumulation shares in the Global Strategy Adventurous Portfolio. In 
respect of different types of shares, the relevant HSBC OpenFunds prospectus says  
Holders of Accumulation Shares do not receive payments of income as these are 
Accumulation Shares and any income arising in respect of an Accumulation Share is 
automatically accumulated and reflected in the price of each Accumulation Share.
Although this doesnt include a specific reference to dividends, elsewhere the prospectus 
defines income as 
money generated by a fund, such as interest from a bond or a dividend from a share, 
which can be paid out to its investors or retained in the fund and reinvested.
And I can see that in the Income Summary section of Mr Ms statement for 15 December 
2022 there were several entries relating to dividends for holdings in various Global Strategy 
portfolios. These showed in each case as Cash Dividend (Paid). So, I can appreciate why 
Mr M mightve assumed thered be a cash payment and in the absence of one, that the ex-
dividend date had caused an issue. 
But HSBC has explained that its required to show the dividend as it did on the statement. 
And while I understand that doing so could create some confusion, immediately below the 
Income Summary section there was the disclaimer, in bold, that said  
*Please note that accumulation distributions that are displayed above are representative of 
the dividend that has been reinvested into the fund. As such the payment will not have been 
paid to you. For more details please see the relevant prospectus for the fund in question.
This being so, in all the circumstances, Im satisfied the dividend has been handled correctly 
for Mr M  he has received it correctly, in line with the mechanism by which accumulation 
shares work. And Im satisfied HSBC has communicated that mechanism in a fair and clear 
manner.    
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman