DRN-3116155
The complaint
Ms E complains that Gresham Insurance Company Limited (Gresham) have poorly 
handled a claim made under her home insurance policy.
Any reference to Ms E or Gresham includes respective agents or representatives unless 
specified.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events. 
Ms E held a home insurance policy with Gresham.
In January 2018 Ms E made a claim following discovery of water entering her home. 
This was investigated by a drainage specialist (Company A) and Gresham completed 
repairs by March 2018.
In October 2019 Ms E contacted Gresham following water entering her home for a 
second time. It was established that the underwater discharge pipe from rainwater 
gullies had been blocked up to the local water authority (LWA) connection. The 
LWA was contacted and it cleared the blockage.
These works for the second incident began in November 2020, and Ms E was moved 
into alternative accommodation (AA). Ms E was able to return to her repaired 
property in March 2021.
Ms E complained, saying Gresham had gone against the advice of surveyors when 
carrying out repairs for the first incident. And that its poor handling had led to issues 
reoccurring. Ms E also raised concerns about communication and general handling 
across the life of both claims.
Gresham said it felt it had acted reasonably in undertaking the works and 
investigations as it did. While it couldve appointed an expert earlier to encompass 
all methods of locating the source of water, in light of the £5,000 policy limit for trace 
and access it tried to source other ways that were less intrusive. But it offered £300 
to account for complaint handling issues.
Ms E brought her complaint to this service. Gresham said in hindsight it shouldve 
declined the 2018 claim as there had been no insured peril under the policy. But, due 
to its mistake it said it would treat the second incident as a continuation of the first 
accepted claim.
The investigator upheld the complaint. She highlighted Company As 2018 report had 
suggested further investigations that Gresham hadnt carried out. And that its 
decision to not follow this advice had most likely led to the subsequent returning 
damage a year later. This resulted in Ms E living in a property with damp and mould 
present for over a year as well as dealing with the resulting works and repairs.
The investigator said Ms E had been living with water entering her home from 
October 2019 onwards, and that this caused damage across the property and mould 
within bedrooms. She highlighted Ms E has a number of medical conditions and 
vulnerabilities which had increased the impact of the environment and claim on her 
health. Ms E had contacted Gresham often for updates and explained her anxieties 
and fears living in the home. So, the investigator was persuaded Gresham knew of 
Ms Es vulnerability, yet it didnt move her into AA until November 2020.
The investigator said in light of the overall impact of Greshams handling of this claim 
on Ms E, it should award her £2,000 in compensation in addition to the £300 offered.
Gresham responded. It said it agreed it missed the diagnosis in 2018 but Ms Es 
home had been repaired with no damage or detriment. It said water penetration to 
the lounge in 2019 was minimal and it hadnt been notified of mould affecting 
bedrooms.
The investigator looked again, clarifying that her recommendation for compensation 
was related to the missed opportunity to resolve the issue in 2018, as Gresham acted 
against the advice of its contractors. As a result, the subsequent 2019 damage, 
investigations and following works were avoidable.
Gresham said its approach within its 2018 investigations had been with the intent of 
completing less evasive investigations to allow for less disruption to Ms E in 
consideration of her wellbeing. And it reiterated it wasnt aware of any mould.
The investigator provided email chains from Ms Es representative to Gresham 
agents including photos showing damage across the home including mould. 
Gresham disagreed, saying these photos provided were sent some months after it 
issued its final response so fell outside of its investigation.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. And for the same reasons given by our 
investigator previously.
2018 incident
Company A, a drain specialist, investigated the damage reported in 2018. Ive included a 
section of its findings to Gresham below.
Further to our engineers attendance, please find the enclosed photos showing the 
downpipe going down into the rainwater drain. Our engineer attempted to clear this and 
found he could not jet further than 0.3 metres before it seems to come to a standstill as well 
as this pipework suffering from root intrusion. Other than just cutting the rainwater pipe and 
letting this discharge onto the nearby flowerbed, it is in our opinion this should be 
investigated properly to determine what is going on underneath this drain. This cannot 
be surveyed as it is and would therefore require an exploratory excavation to investigate 
where this discharges to, however it may go nowhere, but instead of writing this off we 
need to attempt to get the correct answer before discharging this onto the flowerbed.
[my emphasis]
I think this advice is clear on the recommended next steps to be taken.
But Gresham didnt follow this advice. And instead it diverted the rainwater discharge onto 
the garden without excavation, against the advice of Company A.Gresham has since said it missed the opportunity to diagnose the problem at this time and 
hasnt disputed the 2019 returning issues were linked to this incident. So, Im satisfied 
Greshams decision to not follow the advice of Company A led to the subsequent returning 
issues in 2019.
Insurers arent required to follow the advice of their experts, but I would expect to see a good 
reason why an insurer has decided to take other action in the particular circumstances.
So, Ive thought about whether its decision to not follow this advice was reasonable. 
Gresham has indicated the £5,000 limit for trace and access on the policy was a factor when 
determining how to handle the 2018 claim. And it said it didnt carry out excavation in 
consideration of Ms Es wellbeing.
Company A provided a cost estimate of around £650 for these proposed investigations and 
said these investigations would take up to four hours. In light of the sums involved, it 
doesnt seem to me there was a risk of this investigation leaving Ms E without cover for 
further investigations if Company As course of action hadnt identified the cause of the 
problems. And moreover, it seems Company As recommendation to investigate further was 
in line with the purpose of trace and access - to establish the cause of the damage.
Greshams comments regarding Ms Es wellbeing appear linked to her vulnerabilities. Yet 
Ive been given nothing to suggest that she or her representative objected to these proposed 
excavations  nor that the estimated four hours of works wouldve had such a detrimental 
impact as to justify not carrying them out. 
In light of all of these reasons and particularly the strength of Company As advice, Im 
satisfied Gresham made a mistake by not carrying out the excavations. 
2019 incident
As Ive established above, Im satisfied Greshams previous mistake led to the 2019 issues 
that have been ongoing since. In considering the impact of this, I recognise that some 
degree of upheaval for Ms E may have been inevitable had the necessary investigations and 
works been completed in 2018. 
Our investigator has previously discussed in detail the reports and steps taken by Gresham 
across this time, and as a result I wont repeat these here. I will instead focus on the points 
raised by both parties that remain in contention.
As our investigator has outlined in detail previously, Ms E experienced a range of existing 
medical conditions prior to the claim. And she experienced poor health during the life of this 
claim. She contacted Gresham numerous times, explaining her concerns about her safety 
within the property (including whether electricity would be safe to use in light of the present 
water), as well as outlining the impact these works had on her mental health.
Its not in dispute that Ms E was given AA around a year after she reported the water 
returning in October 2019. Gresham has said this was only offered when the property 
became uninhabitable  which was during the repair phase. 
Its unclear to me whether the condition of the property prior to November 2020 was to the 
extent of being uninhabitable  or at which point it wouldve become uninhabitable as the 
damage progressed. 
But it is clear to me there was damage across Ms Es home that caused a real impact to her 
daily life across the several years of the claim ongoing. Ive seen the photos of damp and damage across the home, and can see from her testimony the extent of the impact on her. 
This damage includes water present on the living room floor, mould appearing in bedrooms, 
soft furnishings being damaged, and problems with doors closing due to expansion. 
Gresham has said the water in the living room was minimal and it wasnt aware of the mould. 
I note that Gresham has specifically said it made its decision in 2018 for the benefit of her 
wellbeing, suggesting it was aware of her vulnerability. But in any case, Im satisfied through 
her regular calls with Gresham, this vulnerability shouldve been apparent. 
With this in mind, regardless of whether the home was considered as uninhabitable for the 
purposes of AA, I feel Gresham has overlooked the impact of living in a damaged home. And 
the specific impact this ongoing claim has had on Ms E personally. Theres been a dispute 
as to when Ms E raised concerns about the mould  Gresham suggested it was some 
months after its final response. However mould of that nature doesnt appear overnight. So 
in any case, it seems Mrs E was living with this mould in the house across the life of the 
claim as a result of the way Gresham handled the initial incident.
In light of Ms Es vulnerabilities and health conditions, I think the experience of this claim has 
had a much greater impact on her than Gresham has recognised. And seemingly much of 
the damage to her home couldve been avoided had Gresham followed the advice of its 
experts in 2018 as it should have.
Since 2019, there have been conflicts between Ms E and Gresham about the handling of the 
claim  specifically about particular handlers. Ive factored Greshams handling overall when 
deciding the compensation for this complaint. 
For all of these reasons, Im directing Gresham to pay Ms E £2,000 in compensation in light 
of the impact its mistakes have had on her. This is in addition to any separate sums it may 
have already paid related to complaint handling.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Gresham Insurance Company Limited must:
Pay Ms E £2,000 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Gresham must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Ms E accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman