DRN-3601139
The complaint
Mr S complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) gave him
inadequate information in connection with a claim on his motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to LV, I include repairers and others insofar as I hold LV responsible for their
acts or omissions. 
What happened
In 2019, Mr S acquired a new car on a personal contract plan (PCP). For the year from 23
March 2020, Mr S had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with LV. He had LVs
maximum no claims discount (NCD) of 9 years. The cost of insurance for the year was
going to be about £282.00. Any claim (other than for a windscreen) was subject to an excess
of £400.00.
In November 2020, Mr S changed his address. LV said the cost for a year at that address
wouldve been about £314.00 and charged him about £10.00 for the rest of the year.
Unfortunately, on 26 December 2020, Mr S accidentally damaged his car. After some
telephone calls, LV paid for repair.
In February 2021, LV sent Mr S a renewal notice for the next year- at a cost of about
£516.00. This was based on NCD of 4 years. Mr S contacted LV which offered to reduce the
cost to about £490.00.
Mr S complained to LV about the information it had given him about making a claim  and
about his experience on price comparison websites.
LV wrote a final response dated early March 2021. This included the information that the
final cost of repair had been £1,265.98.The final response referred to a claim outlay of
£865.98 (which was net of the £400.00 excess paid by Mr S). The final response included an
offer that if Mr S were to reimburse that outlay, LV would reinstate 9 years NCD and change
the claim from fault to information only.
Mr S brought his complaint to us in mid- March 2021. Unfortunately we did not contact him
or LV until December 2021.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that:
LV wasnt responsible for what happened on the comparison websites.
LV acted reasonably in making the offer in the final response.
He couldnt say that the LV renewal quote was incorrect.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S   
and to LV on 24 June 2022. I summarise my findings:
Overall, I didnt share Mr Ss view that LV treated him unfairly. 
My reasoning contained some points not made by the investigator, for example about
percentages. So it was only fair that my decision was provisional to give Mr S an 
opportunity to respond.
Subject to any further information from Mr S or from LV, my provisional decision was that I 
didnt intend to direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to do any more in 
response to this complaint.
Mr S disagreed with the provisional decision. He says that if there is no relationship between 
premiums and the published information concerning the percentage reduction in the NCD, 
then this is either redundant information or misleading.
LV hasnt responded to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An insurance company may make an outlay on a claim from its policyholder or from a third
party. An insurer that has made an outlay will commonly treat the claim as a fault claim
against its policyholder unless and until it recovers its outlay in full, typically from a third party
(but perhaps from its policyholder).
A fault claim is likely to be not allowed for NCD and to affect NCD unless the NCD is
protected.
Any accident or claim is likely to affect the premium from which NCD is deducted (more so if
it is a fault claim).
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) imposes a duty
on a consumer when taking out a policy to take reasonable care to avoid making a
misrepresentation to an insurer. So a consumer must take care to give a correct answer to
any question such as whether he has been involved in any accident or claim in the last 5
years.
Motor insurance is usually for one year. There is no certainty about the cost for the next
year. An increase might be driven by a range of other factors in addition to a recent claim.
They might be general factors, such as increases in the cost of claims for repair or injury.
Mr S had a maximum NCD. But it wasnt protected, so it would be affected by any claim. The
welcome letter included the following:
Protected No Claim Discount (PNCD)
 You've chosen not to add PNCD...
 The tables below show: (1) the average NCD awarded to our motor insurance
policyholders last year according to their number of NCD years; and (2) what would
happen to your NCD years if you were to make one or more claims in the next 12months with and without this protection.
Table 2 said that with 9 years NCD, a single claim would reduce NCD to 4 years on
renewal.
Table 1 gave figures of 80% discount for 9 years NCD and 72% discount for 4 years NCD.
A footnote said the following:
*PNCD does not protect the overall price of your insurance policy. The price of your
insurance policy may increase following an accident or claim even if you were not at
fault.
I draw a number of points from what the welcome letter said.
One point is that table 1 shows figures that are averages and that are for the previous year.
Table 1 doesnt state figures individual to Mr S  or for the years from the renewal dates in
2020 or 2021. And the subject matter of LVs tables was the discount rather than
the premium
Another point is to do with percentages. Take for example a premium before discount of
£1,000.00. An 80% discount would lead to a charge of £200.00. A 72% discount would lead
to a charge of £280.00. The percentage change from £200.00 to £280.00 is 40%. So there is 
a strong relationship between reduction in NCD and the net premium.
I can see why Mr S was expecting the reduction in discount to lead to a roughly equivalent 
increase in the net premium. But  keeping in mind the subject matter of LVs tables - I dont 
consider that LVs information was unnecessary or misleading.
A further point is that, even with a protected NCD, the premium might increase following any
accident. So with an unprotected NCD, the premium might increase following any accident.
From the transcript of the call the day after the accident, I note that LV told Mr S he had
around 80% discount which would reduce to around 72% discount. LV told Mr S that in
addition to the discount going down, the premium might go up.
The LV repairer said it didnt do work other than for insurers. It didnt want to quote to do the
job directly for Mr S. I cant hold LV responsible for it or the repairer declining to give Mr S a
quote for a repair outside the policy.
From what hes said, Mr S had got quotes from other repairers. So he knew what that would
cost him if he didnt claim from LV. Mr Ss option to go private wouldnt have meant that the
accident never happened. The accident would still have been a factor in his premium for the
following year.
I wouldnt expect LV to be able to tell Mr S in January 2021 what his premium would be from
March 2021.
Mr S wanted a good quality repair. From what hes said, he made his decision to make a
claim for various reasons including the fact that his car was new and on PCP.
Mr S has sent us interesting video evidence of his experience on price comparison sites. But
LV denies that it owns or runs such sites. I consider that Mr S has fallen short of showing
that LV is engaged in unfair practices.
In any event Mr S didnt renew with LV or pay the premium it quoted. He found a better
quote from a provider other than LV. Different insurers take different views of how toassess and price future risk. So the better quote doesnt show that LVs renewal quote was
unfair.
Before LVs final response with its offer, Mr S had already arranged a policy with another
provider (presumably having told his new insurer that hed had an accident which was a fault
claim). Theres no reason why the new policy wouldve started cover before the LV policy
expired.
LV made its offer before its policy expired. Mr S couldve cancelled the new policy and
accepted LVs offer. So I dont accept his point that If LV had offered an agreed price of
repair and reinstatement of his NCD, he would have accepted.
Overall, I dont share Mr Ss view that LV treated him unfairly. I dont find it fair and
reasonable to direct LV to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont  
direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman