DRN-3372186
The complaint
Mr O complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Sovereign Private Clients 
Limited (Sovereign) to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP). Hes concerned that the 
advice wasnt suitable for his circumstances and led to him suffering a financial loss.
The transaction was facilitated by Sovereign on an insistent client basis after it initially 
advised Mr O against the pension transfer. 
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in their 
assessment which was provided to both Mr O and Sovereign. I dont intend to repeat here 
what our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
In March 2016, Mr Os employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel) announced that it would 
be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
safeguarded benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  
the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of defined 
benefits (DB) pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. Tata Steel closed 
the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017. In May 2017, the PPF announced 
that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement had been agreed  this was 
approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017. Under the announced plans, Tata 
Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension scheme, the BSPS2, subject to 
certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
In October 2017, these changes were communicated to BSPS members, including Mr O, 
under the Time to Choose exercise. This explained that BSPS members had three options 
regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Members had to decide which option they wanted by a deadline in December 2017  those
that didnt choose an option remained in the BSPS and were ultimately transferred to the
PPF. 
The details of Mr Os safeguarded benefits in the BSPS were as follows:
He had accrued 24 years and 6 months qualifying service between                               
1 September 1992 and 31 March 2017;
The scheme pension provided was a safeguarded benefit defined by reference to his 
final salary, pensionable service and benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving 
the scheme on 31 March 2017, his annual scheme pension was £10,364;
The scheme pension comprised several elements, each part of which would be 
revalued by a prescribed amount over the term to the scheme normal retirement age 
of 65 and, once in payment, would escalate annually by a prescribed amount;
The revaluation and escalation rates were guaranteed in line with the BSPS rules;
Payment of benefits before 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction on a 
sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the 
reduction applied to the scheme pension. Broadly, this meant a 30% reduction would 
apply to the scheme pension if benefits were taken at 55 and a 18% reduction at 60;
The estimated revalued annual scheme pension payable by the BSPS at 65 was 
£17,981 or a reduced pension of £11,917 plus tax-free cash of £79,447
The estimated revalued annual income payable by the PPF at 65 was £14,373 or a 
reduced pension of £11,383 plus tax-free cash of £75,836; 
On death before retirement, a refund of contributions of £34,520 plus interest at 3% 
per year compound and a 50% spouses pension would be provided  after 
retirement, a potential lump sum equivalent to his remaining annual pension between 
the date of death and five years after the date of retirement and a 50% spouses 
pension thereafter calculated as if no tax-free cash was taken by Mr O at retirement; 
The provision of a dependants allowance for any qualifying dependants calculated 
as five sixths of the spouse's pension with this amount being shared between 
dependants; and
The cash equivalent transfer value of his safeguarded benefits was £279,702 which 
had been reduced by 5% due to the BSPS being in deficit.
Mr O was concerned about what the announcement by Tata Steel meant for the security of 
his safeguarded benefits. He sought advice from Sovereign who recorded the following 
information about him: 
He was 43, in good health, married and had one financially dependent child aged 6. 
He intended to fully retire at 67 in line with his State pension age but would like the 
option to access pension benefits from 55, if required;
He was employed by Tata Steel as a technician earning £28,000 per year;
His assets comprised the marital home valued at £95,000 that he owned jointly with 
his wife. He didnt have any other investments or savings;
His liabilities comprised an outstanding mortgage of £90,000 on the marital home 
which was due to be repaid in 15 years time;
Other than his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he had recently joined the new 
company defined contribution (DC) pension scheme (the level of contribution wasnt 
recorded by Sovereign); and
His attitude to risk was recorded as 4 (described as Lowest Medium Risk) on a 
scale of 1 to 10, where 1 was low risk and 10 was high risk.
Sovereign recorded that Mr O had three main objectives:
Security: He was concerned about the financial security of the BSPS and the 
prospect that the value of his benefits could be reduced in the future or transferred to 
the PPF. He completely distrusted Tata Steel. As a result, he wanted to transfer away from the BSPS so that was able to control the value of his pension benefits;
Flexibility: He wanted the ability to draw benefits from 55 onwards so that he could 
choose when and how to take these rather than being dictated to by the BSPS. He 
didnt want his pension income to be spread out over his lifetime, preferring the ability 
to take higher income and lump sums in the early years of retirement; and
Death benefits: He wanted to maximise the level of death benefits payable to his 
family in the event of his early death and to provide them with flexibility in how they 
would be paid. It was noted that he couldnt afford the cost of life cover to provide 
separate death benefits.
Sovereigns first recommendation 
In an undated suitability report, presumed to have been issued in December 2017, 
Sovereign advised Mr O against a pension transfer. It stated that it had been unable to 
obtain from the administrators of the BSPS all the necessary information to enable it to carry 
out a full comparison of the benefits payable by the BSPS and a PPP. As a result, it was 
unable to provide the information required to enable Mr O to make an informed decision and 
so recommended that he maintain his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS.
Following issuance of the suitability report, Sovereign phoned Mr O to talk through its 
recommendation. Following that conversation, Sovereign drafted an insistent client letter 
and sent it to Mr O for him and his wife to sign. They signed it on 19 December 2017.
Sovereigns second recommendation 
Following receipt of the insistent client letter, Sovereign issued a further undated suitability 
report to Mr O, again presumed to have been issued in December 2017, setting out its 
reasons for recommending that he transfer to a PPP. He accepted the recommendation, 
following which the pension transfer was completed. The transfer value of about £279,702 
was invested in the PPP providers Growth Fund to align with Mr Os recorded Lowest 
Medium risk profile. The charges associated with the recommendation were as follows:
Initial charges
£6,992.55  initial adviser charge payable to Sovereign based on 2.5% of the transfer 
value and deducted from the PPP once the pension transfer had been completed
Ongoing annual charges
0.8% of PPP fund value  adviser charge payable to Sovereign to provide ongoing 
advice on Mr Os PPP (which was estimated to be £2,181.68 in the first year)
1.0% of PPP fund value  PPP annual management charge
This complaint
Mr O became concerned about the suitability of advice provided by Sovereign to transfer the 
value of his safeguarded benefits to a PPP. He complained to Sovereign but didnt receive a 
response. So he referred the matter to this service. 
One of our investigators considered this complaint. They concluded that the insistent client 
process hadnt been carried out fairly. This was because it appeared Sovereign had drafted 
the insistent client letter and there wasnt any evidence it had obtained the missing information it stated it required in its first suitability report to enable it to carry out a full 
comparison of the benefits payable by the BSPS and a PPP. In addition, the investigator 
was concerned that some of the paperwork required to facilitate the pension transfer had 
already been completed before the first recommendation, implying that it was always 
Sovereigns aim to facilitate the pension transfer. She thought that Sovereigns second 
recommendation to transfer wasnt in Mr Os bests interests and therefore unsuitable. To put 
things right, our investigator recommended that Sovereign carry out a redress calculation in 
line with the FCAs Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress 
for unsuitable DB pension transfers on the basis that Mr O opted for the BSPS2 and would 
be a 20% income tax payer in retirement. In addition, she recommended that Sovereign pay 
Mr O £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its unsuitable 
recommendation. 
Mr O accepted our investigators assessment and recommended remedy. Sovereign told our 
investigator that it didnt agree with the assessment and requested the matter be referred to 
an ombudsman for review. Sovereign didnt explain why it disagreed or provide any 
additional evidence for the ombudsman to consider.
While waiting for this complaint to be allocated to an ombudsman, our investigator contacted 
the parties in connection with the FCAs consultation launched on 2 August 2022 regarding 
new pension transfer redress guidance. The investigator asked Mr O that in the event this 
complaint is ultimately upheld, whether he preferred redress to be calculated on the current 
methodology or the updated guidance expected to be implemented in early 2023. Since                 
Mr O didnt reply by the stated deadline, its been assumed that hed prefer redress on the 
current methodology set out in Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by Mr O and Sovereign. If I havent commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Sovereigns categorisation of Mr O as an insistent client
A key aspect of this case concerns Sovereigns categorisation of Mr O as an insistent client 
 this is a client that wishes to take a different course of action from the one recommended 
and wants the business to facilitate the transaction against its advice. 
Sovereign issued two suitability reports to Mr O. Both reports were undated. In its first 
suitability report, Sovereign recommended that Mr O maintain his safeguarded benefits in 
the BSPS. In its second suitability report, Sovereign recommended that Mr O transfer the 
value of his benefits to a new PPP in response to his insistent client letter.
The FCAs view on insistent clientsThe FCA doesnt have a rule that prevents regulated businesses transacting business 
against its advice if the client insists, as Sovereign did in Mr Os case. However, the FCA 
has previously expressed its concerns and expectations about how businesses should 
execute insistent client business in connection with pension transfers  it did this in                       
July 2014 when it published TR14/12 Enhanced transfer value pension transfers and in                                   
February 2016 when it published a guidance note on insistent clients.
Since these were published before Sovereign advised Mr O in 2017, its my view that it 
shouldve been aware of the FCAs concerns and expectations when it facilitated his pension 
transfer on an insistent client basis.
TR14/12 published in July 2014
In its findings under this thematic review, the FCA stated in reference to insistent clients:
In 59% of the files reviewed, the transfers took place on an insistent basis after a 
personal recommendation had been made (members acted against financial 
advisers advice). The unsuitable outcomes arose in two main ways:
the personal recommendation was not to leave the DB scheme but the 
presentation of the recommendation was unclear, lacking relevant facts or with 
incorrect information (and so it could not be relied upon); and 
the financial adviser advised the member not to transfer out of the DB scheme 
but then recommended a product that was not suitable (with reference to the 
outcome of and assessment of the information gathered about the member). A 
significant proportion of files did not record the reasons for the members decision 
to act on an insistent basis.
The FCA then went on to list examples of poor practice it had seen in its thematic review:
Communications with an insistent member did not contain sufficiently strong 
warnings about the risks of transferring against professional advice.
The file did not indicate why an insistent member decided to act against 
professional advice not to transfer.
There was no documented process to show how the member was treated as an 
insistent client. 
TVAS/critical yields were not recalculated to show the effect of proceeding on an 
insistent basis (e.g. the effect of taking part of the enhancement as cash).
Guidance note on insistent clients published in February 2016
In this guidance note, the FCA listed its concerns as follows:
We have seen cases where:
there was an inadequate assessment of the other options that would meet the 
clients objectives
excessive numbers of insistent clients resulted from the advisers advice not 
being sufficiently clearthe risks of the clients preferred course of action were not clearly explained
it was a 'papering exercise', for example the adviser had processed the case on 
an insistent client basis but this clearly did not reflect what had happened in 
practice
the adviser advised the client not to transfer out of the DB scheme (although the 
client insisted) but then recommended a product that was not suitable (with 
reference to the outcome and assessment of the information gathered about the 
member)
Due to these concerns, the FCA set out three key steps it expected regulated businesses to 
follow:
You must provide advice that is suitable for the individual client, and this advice 
must be clear to the client. This is the normal advice process.
You should be clear with the client about the risks of their chosen course of action. If 
the advice includes a pension transfer, conversion or opt-out, there may be additional 
requirements. These may include ensuring the advice is provided by or checked by a 
pension transfer specialist, comparing the defined benefit (DB) scheme with the 
defined contribution (DC) scheme and starting by assuming the transfer is not 
suitable (see COBS 19.1).
It should be clear to the client that their actions are against your advice. 
In meeting these steps, the FCA clarified that the business must obtain the necessary 
information about its client and their investment objectives, financial situation, and 
knowledge and experience to enable it to make a suitable personal recommendation, in line 
with COBS 9.2. In addition, the business must also act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
the best interests of their client, in line with COBS 2.1.1R. The business must also 
communicate with the client (for example in the suitability report) in a way thats clear, fair 
and not misleading, in line with Principle 7 and COBS 4.2.1R.
Did Sovereign meet the FCAs expectations?
Taking into account the FCAs expectations, Ive the following concerns regarding how 
Sovereign facilitated Mr Os pension transfer on an insistent client basis:
In its first suitability report, Sovereign advised against a pension transfer because it 
stated that it had been unable to obtain all the necessary information from the 
administrators of the BSPS for a full comparison of the benefits payable by the BSPS 
and a PPP. So the reason why it advised against the pension transfer was because 
of a lack of information. Based on this, I think its fair to say that the recommendation 
lacked relevant facts to enable Mr O to make an informed decision and so he couldnt 
rely on it;
Sovereign then produced a very detailed, technical letter and sent it to Mr O to sign 
and return confirming that he wanted to proceed with the pension transfer. Its clear 
that the letter wasnt written in Mr Os own words setting out the reasons why he 
wished to act against Sovereigns advice; andIn its second suitability report, Sovereign advised Mr O to transfer to a PPP. But 
theres no evidence that it had obtained the information it stated was missing at the 
time of its first recommendation. And in that second suitability report Sovereign didnt 
make clear that Mr O was acting against its advice. 
I think its fair to say that Sovereigns approach to treating Mr O as an insistent client didnt 
meet the FCAs stated expectations at the time. While the documents show that the transfer 
was processed on an insistent client process, its my view, based on what Ive seen, that 
Sovereign always intended to facilitate the pension transfer. I think the issuance of the first 
suitability report and creation of the insistent client letter by Sovereign was a papering 
exercise to enable it to facilitate the pension transfer. The problem Sovereign have here is 
that in its first suitability report it conceded that it didnt have the necessary information to 
assess suitability  and so, in line with COBS 9.2.6R, it shouldnt have provided a 
recommendation, but it did. This meant that Mr O wasnt in possession of the necessary 
information to enable him to make an informed decision when he apparently decided to act 
against Sovereigns advice. 
Since its my view that Sovereign failed to meet the FCAs expectations when it facilitated            
Mr Os pension transfer on an insistent client basis, Ive gone on to consider the suitability of 
its second recommendation in which it advised Mr O to relinquish his safeguarded benefits in 
the BSPS and transfer to a PPP. My findings are set out below.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance
Sovereign was authorised and regulated by the FCA at the time it provided the
recommendation to Mr O. This meant that when it advised him it was required to adhere to
the suitability rules and guidance in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) section
in the FCAs Handbook. In assessing the suitability of Sovereigns recommendation, its
necessary for me to have due regard to these rules and guidance.
Primarily, Sovereign was required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly and
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client in its dealings with Mr O.
The suitability rules and guidance that applied when Sovereign provided its recommendation
to Mr O were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance are to ensure that
businesses take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs
and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment
objectives and risk profile. To ensure that this is the case, and in line with the requirements
in COBS 9.2.2R, the business must gather the necessary information for it to be confident its
advice is suitable. Broadly speaking, this section of COBS 9 sets out the requirement for a
regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process.
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to pension transfers involving
safeguarded benefits, as was applicable to Mr Os case  these were contained in
COBS 19.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits 
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension 
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client 
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the
factors that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6G set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the clients
best interests. [my emphasis added]
COBS 19.1.7G also stated:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved
to replicate the benefits being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8G stated that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to adhere to these rules and guidance because the FCA considers
safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and guidance,
businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the existing DB 
pension scheme is suitable and only to recommend a transfer, which converts safeguarded 
benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients best interests.
Mr Os situation 
The situation for Mr O wasnt normal because the existing scheme, the BSPS, was closing.
So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to a new
scheme. He had three options:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr O to retain safeguarded benefits, albeit at a lower levelthan provided by the BSPS. There were differences between the PPF and the BSPS2. For
deferred members below the scheme normal retirement age, like Mr O, the PPF would
provide compensation based on 90% of their accrued pension at the scheme normal
retirement age (in effect a 10% reduction in benefits). The BSPS2 didnt apply such a
reduction. The BSPS2 also provided the potential for discretionary increases to the accrued
pension, a higher level of spouses pension and the option to transfer to an alternative
PPP to convert to flexible benefits at a later date when needs could be determined with 
greater accuracy than at 43  the PPF didnt offer these additional features. 
So while the situation was somewhat unusual, Mr O still had the option to retain safeguarded 
benefits in either the PPF or BSPS2. Due to his age and circumstances, its my view Mr O 
wouldve been better off choosing the BSPS2 instead of the PPF in December 2017 based 
on what was known at that time. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits, its my fair 
and reasonable opinion that Sovereign shouldve started its advice process by assuming the 
BSPS2 was suitable for Mr O and to only recommend a transfer to a PPP if it could clearly 
demonstrate it was in his best interests.
Was Sovereigns recommendation suitable?
The transfer value analysis system (TVAS) rules applied at the time Sovereign advised                
Mr O. This required it to carry out a transfer value analysis to calculate the critical yield 
applicable to the proposed transfer. The critical yield is the annual rate of investment return 
required on the invested transfer value, after charges, to match the capitalised value of the 
benefits offered by the DB pension scheme on the assumption that the value of the 
alternative pension is used to secure a lifetime annuity at the scheme normal retirement age 
 the higher the critical yield, the less likely that the alternative pension will achieve sufficient 
investment growth to match the pension payable by the DB pension scheme.
Sovereign calculated the following critical yield figures:
At age 55 based 
on a full pensionAt age 55 based 
on a reduced 
pension and 
maximum tax-
free cashAt age 65 based 
on a full pensionAt age 65 based 
on a reduced 
pension and 
maximum tax-
free cash
BSPS 3.64% 1.83% 6.87% 5.87%
In its second suitability report in which it recommended the transfer, it only mentioned the 
figures of 5.72% (which Im taking to be a typo rather than the correct figure of 5.87%) and 
1.83%. Sovereign expressed its view that the figure of 1.83% was an extremely low yield 
and is also realistic to gain as an average return based on the past performance of the 
recommended fund in the PPP. And elsewhere in the suitability report it stated that Mr O 
could access benefits in the PPP from 55 onwards with no reductions.
The reality was of course that the PPP wouldve had less time to grow if accessed before 65 
and any resulting income would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately 
explained to Mr O so he could understand that accessing the BSPS2, PPF or PPP early 
would likely lead to reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking 
benefits at 65. And I also cannot see that Sovereign explained that the critical yield at 55 
was lower than at 65 because of the significant 30% reduction that would apply to the 
scheme pension if benefits were taken at 55  the effect of that reduction meant that the 
required rate of investment growth under the PPP was lower, but this wasnt adequately 
explained. 
Sovereigns recommendation to Mr O was provided to him after the FCA gave instructions in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
DB pension transfers as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to 
October 2017 similar rates were published on our website. Whilst businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they 
provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been considered reasonably 
achievable when the advice was given in this case. The closest discount rate which I'm able 
to refer to and published by this service for the period before October 2017 is 4.5% based on 
Mr O taking benefits at the BSPS normal retirement age of 65. Furthermore, the FCA's 
projection rate for pensions at the time was 8% per year for the upper rate, 5% per year for 
the middle rate and 2% per year for the lower rate. In my view, the discount rate and 
projection rates imply that, with a critical yield of 6.87%, the financial viability of the pension 
transfer was questionable. 
I think that there was limited scope for Mr O to achieve the critical yield to match the BSPS 
pension at age 65, let alone exceed it. I think its fair to say that in order to achieve a higher 
level of income, it wouldve required Mr O to accept a high-risk investment approach to 
provide the potential for the sort of investment returns required. But that would only come 
with accepting the risk of significant investment loss. This is because the relationship 
between risk and reward is closely related.
Due to the required rate of investment growth required by the PPP over the 21-year
investment term to age 65, its my opinion that a pension transfer wasnt in Mr Os best
interests purely from a financial viability point of view because there was a material risk that
hed be worse off if high investment returns werent consistently achieved.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice,
as was set out in COBS 19.1.7B (G). A reasonable prospect of the critical yield being met or
exceeded wouldnt necessarily mean that the transfer was suitable, and conversely, there
might be other considerations which mean a pension transfer is suitable, despite providing
overall lower benefits. Ill now go on to consider this.
Mr Os concerns about the security of the BSPS and PPF
Sovereign recorded that Mr O was concerned about the financial security of the BSPS and 
the prospect that the value of his benefits could be reduced in the future or transferred to the 
PPF. 
The PPF was introduced by the government in 2005 as a lifeboat scheme to protect 
members of DB pension schemes with the promise of providing a minimum level of benefits. 
The revaluation and escalation rates are set by law. Depending on his age on transfer to the 
PPF, Mr O could expect to receive a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension, although this 
would be affected by the revaluation and escalation rates under the PPF. This contrasted 
with the recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits 
payable. In its 2016/17 annual report, publicly available at the time of Sovereigns 
recommendation, the PPF stated that its overall financial position as at 31 March 2017 
remained robust, with an increase in its surplus funds to £6.1bn. There wasnt any reason at 
that time to question the financial viability of the PPF to provide benefits in the future.
Had Sovereign advised Mr O to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained safeguarded 
benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed suitable, 
when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his retirement income 
and lump sum needs with greater accuracy than at 43. A transfer to the BSPS2 wouldve 
also removed any immediate concerns Mr O had about the PPF. After all, the whole reason 
the BSPS2 was conceived was to provide a new long-term DB pension scheme for former members of the BSPS. And if it was the case, in the future, that the BSPS2 was at risk of 
being transferred to the PPF, then I think it likely that, similarly to the BSPS, members would 
be given the opportunity to transfer out to a PPP before any transfer to the PPF occurred. So 
I dont think that there was any immediate concern about options disappearing for Mr O or 
that there was an urgency to transfer to a PPP at that time to avoid a transfer to the PPF.
In my view, Mr O was reliant on Sovereign to provide a fair and balanced assessment of the 
BSPS2 and PPF and to act in his best interests in this regard. This ought to have involved 
discussing with Mr O the features, risks and benefits of those alternative options and allaying 
his misapprehensions. But theres evidence it did this. 
If Mr O was apparently concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the 
PPF which would result in him losing 10% of his scheme pension, then I have to question 
why he would accept the risk of transferring to a PPP which exposed him to unlimited 
downside risks where the loss could be significantly greater than 10%. It seems odd to me 
that Mr O wasnt prepared to accept the 10% reduction of his benefits under the PPF yet 
was apparently content to accept the unlimited downside risks associated with the pension 
transfer. This suggests to me that he didnt have the knowledge and experience to 
understand the features, risks and benefits of the PPF compared to the pension transfer. He 
was relying on Sovereign to provide expert advice on this point, but I think it failed to do this.
Its therefore my view that Sovereign failed to adequately allay Mr Os misapprehensions and 
that he therefore made the decision to transfer from an uninformed position regarding the 
BSPS2 and PPF.
Flexibility 
Sovereign recorded that Mr O wanted the ability to draw benefits from 55 onwards so that he 
could choose when and how to take these rather than being dictated to by the BSPS. He 
didnt want his pension income to be spread out over his lifetime, preferring the ability to take 
higher income and lump sums in the early years of retirement. 
I think its clear that Mr O was attracted to a flexible arrangement. However, he was 43 at the 
time and so 12 years away from being able to take any pension benefits and at least 24 
years away from 67, when he intended to fully retire. While I dont doubt Mr O wouldve liked 
the flexibility to draw any level of benefits he wanted from 55, plans can change over such a 
long period of time. And I cant see that alternatives were discussed with him in a meaningful 
way. 
It was recorded that Mr O planned to remain employed by Tata Steel, so I think its fair to say 
that hed likely remain a member of the DC pension scheme for the foreseeable future. So 
by 55 around 12 years worth of contributions wouldve likely been invested which couldve 
been used to meet any income or lump sum needs from that point in the first instance, 
delaying drawing the safeguarded benefits and therefore reducing the impact of an early 
retirement o reduction or avoiding altogether.
Mr O had accrued 24 years and 6 months qualifying service in the BSPS. So I think its fair 
to say that when the time came to retire that hed be heavily reliant on the value of these 
benefits to support his standard of living in retirement. I cant see that Sovereign discussed 
what income Mr O likely would require in retirement. So I dont think his income 
requirements, whether these were achievable and any alternatives how to meet his 
objectives differently without giving up guarantees prematurely were properly explored.
Death benefitsDeath benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. 
The recommended PPP offered flexible death benefits  nominated beneficiaries could 
choose to convert the fund value to secure a lifetime annuity, death lump sum or income 
drawdown or any combination of these. Based on the applicable tax rules, if death occurred 
under 75 the benefits are paid free of income tax  after 75 the benefits are taxed at the 
beneficiarys marginal rate of income tax. Its fair to say that immediately following the 
transfer to the PPP and for the period until Mr O could draw any benefits from 55 onwards, 
the death benefits available would be significant (subject to investment performance) due to 
the simple fact he couldnt access and deplete the fund value for at least 12 years.
But Mr O was recorded as being in good health. So he could expect normal life expectancy
into his late 70s or early 80s. The value of his safeguarded benefits represented the 
backbone of his retirement provision built up by that time. And as Ive concluded above, I 
think Mr O would be heavily reliant on these benefits to meet his core pension income 
needs. Withdrawing money from the PPP to meet his pension income needs would likely 
mean that the size of the fund remaining in later years  when death is more likely  could 
be much smaller than expected. 
Sovereign recorded that Mr O couldnt afford the cost of life cover to provide separate death 
benefits. But theres no evidence that it obtained any life cover quotes to show what level of 
cover he required and the cost of this. In any event, I understand that through his 
employment Mr O had life cover based on a multiple of four times his salary, meaning a 
lump sum of about £112,000 would be paid in the event he died while still employed by Tata 
Steel  this was payable regardless of whether his safeguarded benefits were transferred to 
BSPS2, PPF or a PPP. In addition, the value of his Tata Steel DC plan would be paid as a 
lump sum to his nominated beneficiary(ies) whatever its value was on death. So, it seems to 
me that in the immediate future, certainly while Mr O remained employed by Tata Steel, that 
a lump sum of at least £112,000 would be paid on his death. This was greater than the 
outstanding mortgage of £90,000 on the marital home.
So I think its fair to say that there wasnt any immediate need to transfer at that time to 
provide death benefits bearing in mind the cover already in place while Mr O remained 
employed by Tata Steel. 
Its my view that Mr O had no health issues at the time Sovereign advised him which might 
reasonably have prompted him to relinquish the guarantees attached to his own retirement 
income for the sake of an enhanced safety net for his family. So Im not convinced there was 
any real merit in Mr O transferring to a PPP at that time to provide a lump sum death benefit.
If properly informed, would Mr O have transferred anyway?
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that a pension transfer was in Mr Os 
best interests and that its second recommendation could therefore be regarded as suitable 
in the circumstances. I havent seen any evidence that shows Sovereign complied with the 
FCAs rules under COBS 2.1.1R, COBS 9.2.2R and COBS 19.1.2R, or followed its 
suggested guidance under COBS 19.1.6G, COBS 19.1.7G and COBS 19.1.8G. So I think 
its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint. 
In potential mitigation of Sovereigns advice, Ive also thought about whether Mr O, if placed 
in a fully informed position, would nevertheless have decided to transfer the value of his 
safeguarded benefits to the new PPP. This was a complex transaction involving many 
factors which Mr O, as a layperson, wouldnt have been familiar. Its my view that he was 
heavily reliant on Sovereign, as the professional party in the transaction, to take those factors into account and provide suitable, balanced advice. Given Mr Os reliance on 
Sovereign to provide expert advice, I think its unlikely, on balance, he wouldve transferred 
against its advice had it advised him to opt for the BSPS2.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr O, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. My view is 
aligned with that of our investigator in that, had Mr O been properly advised, he wouldve 
opted for the BSPS2 rather than the PPF. Ill explain why. 
There would be a 10% reduction in the starting pension entitlement within the PPF, whereas 
the BSPS2 wouldnt reduce the starting entitlement for deferred members. The reduction for 
early retirement under the PPF was lower and the commutation factors for tax free cash 
entitlement were also more favourable than the BSPS2. And so, on the basis of prospective 
early retirement, both the starting income and the tax-free cash would likely have been 
higher with the PPF. But for the reasons set out above, I think its likely that, properly 
advised, Mr O wouldve envisaged accessing his Tata Steel DC plan in the first instance to 
make up any income shortfall before starting to take his safeguarded benefits at 65. In terms 
of death benefits, under the BPSP2 the spouses pension would be set at 50% of his 
pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no tax-free cash was taken at 
retirement. And so its the benefits offered by the BSPS2 which should be used for 
comparison purposes. 
As such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out using the 
most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. This should be on the 
basis Mr O takes benefits at the scheme normal retirement age of 65. 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document  CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA stated that it considers the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 remains appropriate and fundamental changes arent 
necessary. However, its review identified some areas where it considers it could improve or 
clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
The FCA has stated that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 while the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr O whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance and rules to be published. He didnt 
make a choice. So, as set out previously, Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait 
for any new guidance. Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate 
and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr O.
Sovereign must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the FCAs pension 
review guidance as updated by it in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how 
to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. This calculation should be carried 
out as at the date of this final decision and using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of this decision. In accordance with the FCAs expectations, this should be 
undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification 
of Mr Os acceptance of this final decision. 
Sovereign may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain           
Mr Os contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the BSPS on Mr Os SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Os PPP. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the PPP if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the PPP isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should 
be paid directly to Mr O as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as 
tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%, as previously stated by our investigator. So making a 
notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
If this complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Sovereign to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
In addition, Sovereign should pay Mr O £300 for the distress and inconvenience this matter 
has caused him.
The compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mr O within 90 days of the date 
Sovereign receives notification of his acceptance of this final decision. Further interest must 
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of this 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Sovereign to pay Mr O.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. Where I uphold 
a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs 
that I consider are appropriate. 
Where I consider that fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed 
£160,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance. 
My final decision 
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Sovereign Private 
Clients Limited to pay Mr O the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would 
additionally require Sovereign Private Clients Limited to pay Mr O any interest on that 
amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds 
£160,000, I would only require Sovereign Private Clients Limited to pay Mr O any interest as 
set out above on the sum of £160,000. 
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that Sovereign Private Clients Limited pays Mr O the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr O. If Mr O accepts 
this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Sovereign Private Clients Limited. 
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr O can accept my final 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr O may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman