DRN-4207557
The complaint
Mr B has complained about his car insurer Zurich Insurance PLC regarding a settlement it 
made to him when his car was damaged in an accident.
What happened
Mr Bs car, which is around thirty years old, was hit by another driver two days before his 
policy with Zurich was due to end. He arranged cover going forward with a new insurer, 
placing an agreed value for the car of £4,000 on the policy. He made a claim to Zurich and 
arranged to have his car repaired. 
Zurich had an engineer assess Mr Bs car whilst at his garage for repair. The engineer, 
noting the cars high mileage and some poor paintwork, felt the car had a market value of 
£3,000. Mr Bs repair cost was estimated to be £2,892.30. Zurich decided to cash settle the 
claim on the basis of the cars market value, less an amount for salvage (because Mr B was 
keeping the car) and the policy excess of £500. It paid him £1,750.
Mr B was unhappy. He didnt think Zurich shouldve viewed the car as a total loss as it was 
perfectly repairable. And he felt the market value it had ascribed to it was too low. He said he 
could only find similar cars for sale between £4,000 and £16,000, and his new insurer was 
happy the car was worth £4,000. Mr B complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our Investigator noted Zurichs engineers view of the value of the car. She also checked 
internet sale prices for similar cars. Overall she thought Zurich had acted fairly and 
reasonably. So she did not uphold the complaint.
Mr B felt the approach of declaring cars uneconomic for repair when they could be repaired, 
was not environmentally friendly. He said he felt the evidence from the engineer had been 
relied upon too heavily. He said the engineer wasnt independent and his new insurer had 
placed an agreed value on the car of £4,000.
Our Investigator replied to Mr B. When he remained unhappy his complaint was referred for 
an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The accident occurred on 2 January 2023 and on 6 January 2023, Zurich noted its file to 
show Mr B was obtaining an estimate from his own repairer. Mr B, on 13 January 2023 sent 
an estimate for repair to Zurich. He asked for the repairs be authorised. Zurichs engineer 
inspected the car on 19 January 2023, completing their report the next day. Zurich put its 
settlement offer in writing to Mr B on 25 January 2023. I think the claim was handled in a 
reasonably timely manner by Zurich.
I appreciate Mr B has concerns that the engineer was not independent. But it is quite 
common for insurers to instruct engineers in this way and the engineers are independent in 
that they do not work directly for the insurer. They also provide their reports in line with court 
protocols. Im satisfied its reasonable for the engineers findings to be given weight and 
considered as an expert opinion. 
The report explained the engineer had determined the cars market value as £3,000. The 
engineer said this was based on internet research and experience. No further detail was 
provided  ideally that conclusion would have been supported with evidence. But I note our 
Investigator checked internet sales prices for cars similar to Mr Bs. She only found one car 
for sale at more than £4,000. Others were for sale at over £3,000. But all those found 
generally had a much lower mileage than Mr Bs car. Im satisfied Zurich acted fairly and 
reasonably when it applied the market value set by the engineer to Mr Bs claim.
Mr Bs new insurer has applied an agreed value to its policy for the car of £4,000. But 
I havent seen that that happened as the result of any expert assessment. As such I think 
that cant reasonably outweigh the findings of the engineer. And Zurich isnt bound to act on 
the basis of what another insurer has agreed.
That said, accepting for a moment that the car did/does have a value of £4,000, Ive thought 
about Mr Bs concern surrounding Zurich viewing the car as uneconomical to repair. I realise 
this might seem unsatisfactory to Mr B  as he has a car which he can repair and continue to 
use. But its quite usual for policies of insurance to contain clauses which allow insurers to 
settle claims as they see fit and that will usually result in the most cost effective resolution.
Most insurers when looking at car repairs, will take a view about committing to repairs. Often 
if the estimated cost for repair is 60% to 70% or more of the cars market value, an insurer 
will view it as uneconomical to repair. Thats not least because estimates are just that, and 
costs can increase once work starts. With older cars, obtaining parts can also be an issue. 
With the estimate from Mr Bs garage being around £3,000, even if the engineer had felt the 
market value was £4,000, I think Zurich would still have chosen to view the car as 
uneconomical to repair. With Zurich seeing the market value as £3,000, I think its decision 
on economy and settling with Mr B based on the market value so he could keep the car, was 
fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Zurich Insurance PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman