DRN-3378535
The complaint
Mrs B on behalf of Mr B complains about how Santander UK Plc has dealt with a number of 
requests for account information.
What happened
Mrs B says Mr B has a serious health issue and as a result she is managing his affairs. She 
says Mr B has a Santander credit card account and asked it for access to the account, the 
account balance and who is liable for the account balance. She also says she asked if the 
account could be converted into a loan in Mr Bs name. Mrs B says she didnt receive 
answers to those questions and would like Santander to consider writing off the balance. 
She says she has made required minimum payments.
Santander accepts it didnt deal with part of the original complaint and refunded interest. It 
says it asked Mrs B for a budget planner so it could consider how best to assist but says she 
didnt complete it. Santander says Mrs B can access the account via telephone banking and 
says it cant transfer the balance into a loan. It says Mrs B could pay more off the balance if 
she wished and told her the balance was over £6,000 in May 2021.
Mrs B brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Santander had fairly refunded interest up to April 2021 and thought that Mrs B could 
have returned the budget planner which Santander needed. The investigator thought Mrs B 
could have made additional payments if she wished.
Mrs B on behalf of Mr B doesnt accept that view and says it has taken two years for her to 
be told she is not liable for the debt and says she didnt complete the planner as it was in her 
name and not Mr B. She says interest should be reduced due to the delay in answering 
those questions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont require Santander to do anything 
further in the circumstances of this complaint. I appreciate Mrs B will be disappointed by my 
decision at what I accept is a difficult time for her. I make clear that this is a complaint by Mr 
B and so I can only consider his complaint points and not for example complaints that Mrs B 
makes that concern her such as the impact the delay in confirming if she was liable for the 
debt had on her.
There is no need for me to deal with the earlier issues that led to Santander refunding 
interest in 2021 as they are not in dispute. This complaint is about the failure to tell Mrs B 
who was liable for the debt and that Mrs B says Santander has effectively assumed she is 
liable for the debt as the budget planner was sent in her name.
I have looked carefully at Santanders final response letter and Im satisfied that Mrs B was 
told the outstanding balance of over £6,000 and was asked to complete a budget planner so 
that further help could be given. I appreciate Mrs B says that planner was in her name and 
so didnt complete it, but Im satisfied that Mrs B was acting for Mr B and managing his 
financial affairs. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Santander to write to Mrs B and 
think it made clear that it needed that document before it could help further. Im also satisfied 
that Mrs B was told the outstanding balance and it was her choice how much was repaid 
each month.
I accept that Mrs B wasnt told specifically in Santanders letter who was liable for the debt. 
But I can see that Mrs B has told us in her complaint form that she believes the debt is Mr 
Bs which of course it is. And I am not sure what difference it makes whose debt it is as Mrs 
B has been making payments on behalf of Mr B in any event and managing his financial 
affairs.
Im satisfied that its up to Santander to decide if it wishes to offer a loan and of course it 
remains open to Mrs B if she wished to apply herself for a loan to repay the debt. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Santander made clear in May 2021 that it needed a budget planner 
to help further and that wasnt completed. Im also satisfied that Mrs B would have been 
aware of the account balance at that same time and it was her choice how much to repay 
per month. No doubt Mrs B will complete that form if she wishes further help from Santander 
or use telephone banking to manage the account. I hope Mrs B appreciates why I cant 
consider any impact she has experienced in a personal capacity in this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman