DRN-3260676
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim she made on a 
personal private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C took out a Healthier Solutions private medical insurance policy in 2015, which 
renewed annually. The policy included cancer cover.
In September 2020, Mrs C began to experience symptoms of bleeding. She was referred for 
diagnostic testing on the NHS by her GP and unfortunately, on 24 September 2020, Mrs C 
was diagnosed with bowel cancer. She was told shed require further tests and bowel 
surgery. So she contacted Aviva to make a claim on her policy and mentioned a private 
hospital shed been referred to.
However, this private hospital was unable to take on her care and so Aviva provided her with 
details of another private hospital and private consultants around an hour away. Mrs C says 
the consultants secretary told her that the consultant would be able to carry out the surgery 
she needed. An appointment was made for Mrs C to see the consultant on 7 October 2020, 
although the private hospital later rescheduled it for 12 October 2020. In the meantime, Mrs 
C was admitted to an NHS hospital after suffering serious symptoms, although she was 
discharged a short time later. She later underwent the diagnostic testing she needed under 
the NHS rather than privately.
On 12 October 2020, Mrs C saw the private consultant. Unfortunately, he informed her that 
he wouldnt be able to carry out the surgery she needed and that this could only be carried 
out in a specific part of the country. Mrs C was very upset and disappointed by the outcome 
of this appointment and she complained to Aviva. Ultimately, she underwent surgery and 
treatment on the NHS.
Aviva told Mrs C that it wasnt responsible for the actions of the private consultant. But it 
acknowledged how upsetting the situation had been for her. It paid Mrs C NHS cash benefit 
in line with the policy terms. And it agreed to waive the excess charge for the October 
consultation; provided Mrs C with three months of free policy cover and it sent her a £50 gift 
card in recognition of the impact of the situation on Mrs C.
Mrs C remained unhappy with Avivas position and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator felt Aviva had treated Mrs C fairly. She didnt think Aviva was responsible 
for the private hospitals actions. And she was satisfied that Aviva had provided Mrs C with 
cancer cover and had fairly settled her NHS cash benefit claim.
Mrs C disagreed and Ive summarised her responses to our investigator. She felt that shed 
been paying for cancer cover, which Aviva hadnt provided. She considered that Avivas 
customer service teams hadnt been properly trained and didnt have the knowledge to help 
policyholders at the time of a claim. She queried why she had had to find out herself that her 
preferred hospital didnt carry out bowel operations. And she said that when it came to 
considering policy renewal, her broker told her she couldve had the surgery at a private 
hospital closer to her home. She questioned why Aviva hadnt told her about this option.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important I make clear that this decision 
will only consider the issues Aviva has already had a chance to look into and address in its 
final response to Mrs Cs complaint dated 29 October 2020. While I understand Mrs C is 
unhappy that her broker told her she couldve undergone the surgery she needed at a 
private hospital closer to her home, it doesnt appear that Aviva has had a chance to 
investigate this particular concern. Under our rules, we can only look into a complaint once a 
financial business has been given a chance to do so and to provide its final response. Its 
open to Mrs C to complain about this particular complaint point to Aviva if she wishes to do 
so. If she remains unhappy with Avivas response, she may be able to bring a new complaint 
to us about that issue alone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C, I think Aviva has treated her fairly and 
Ill explain why.
I was sorry to hear about Mrs Cs illness and I dont doubt what a worrying and upsetting 
time this mustve been for her and for her family. I do hope Mrs C is recovering well from her 
treatment.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive considered, amongst other things, all of the available evidence to decide whether Aviva 
handled her claim fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mrs Cs 
contract with Aviva. Both Mrs C and Aviva agree that Mrs Cs policy included cancer cover  
including for private cancer treatment. So I can entirely understand why, given Mrs C 
received all of her treatment on the NHS, she feels that the policy didnt work in the way 
shed hoped and thought it would.
However, Aviva isnt itself a medical provider or a hospital. Its role is to pay private medical 
professionals to carry out eligible treatment and testing etc. It doesnt own or operate the 
hospitals within its network and neither is it responsible for any of the clinical care provided 
by the private hospitals. Page 28 of the policy sets out how to claim. It says:
If your claim is for treatment for a condition for which we have a network in place, we will tell 
you where you can have your treatment and/or which specialist (or other practitioner) we 
recognise to carry out the treatment that you need.
Ive looked closely at Avivas notes and thought carefully about what Mrs C has told us. It 
seems that when Mrs C first called Aviva, she mentioned the private hospital which shed 
been referred to. It appears that this hospital was part of Avivas network and so it gave Mrs 
C the specific specialists number. It looks like this consultant was an Aviva recognised 
specialist, so in my view, Aviva didnt act unreasonably by providing Mrs C with the 
specialists number to make an appointment. Its unfortunate that this consultant no longer 
worked privately, but I can see that Aviva swiftly updated its records to reflect this change, 
as Id expect it to do.
As Mrs C opted to continue with private care, Aviva provided her with details of another hospital, which was around an hour away. Again, this is in line with the policy terms. Theres 
nothing in the policy to say that Aviva will make appointments on a policyholders behalf or 
that its responsible for what happens during clinical consultations and/or treatment. 
Mrs C told Aviva that the consultants secretary had led her to believe that her surgery could 
be carried out at the hospital. So I acknowledge how upsetting and frustrating it mustve 
been after waiting for the appointment, only to find out that the consultant couldnt carry out 
the operation Mrs C needed and had suggested that Mrs C should continue with the NHS. 
Im aware too that there was some confusion as to whether the private hospital had received 
Mrs Cs referral letter from her GP. But it seems to me that these concerns were down to the 
private hospital and the way it dealt with Mrs C. I dont think I could fairly or reasonably hold 
Aviva responsible for the private hospitals actions here. Id add that given Mrs C says the 
secretary told her that the consultant would be able to carry out the surgery, even if one of 
Avivas claims handlers had called the secretary directly, its likely theyd have been told the 
same thing.
Aviva did cover the cost of this consultation, in accordance with the policy terms. And to 
recognise whatd happened, it also waived Mrs Cs excess payment of £100 and it sent her a 
gift card for £50. I think this was a fair response from Aviva, in the circumstances  
especially given that I dont think Aviva was at fault for the way the private consultant 
handled things. And Im also persuaded that Avivas claims handlers did attempt to assist 
Mrs C in finding appropriate specialists, based on the information which was available to it at 
the time  particularly taking into account the impact of Covid-19 on both private and NHS 
healthcare.
Its important to say that Ive seen no evidence to suggest that if the consultant had been in a 
position to perform Mrs Cs surgery privately, Aviva wouldnt have met the cost of the 
surgery, treatment and other associated costs. I think, on balance, the policy wouldve 
covered private cancer treatment had Mrs C been able to take up such an option with the 
consultant.
Instead though, Mrs C underwent treatment on the NHS. The terms of Mrs Cs contract 
provides a cash benefit where a policyholder whod be eligible for private in-patient hospital 
treatment receives that inpatient treatment within an NHS hospital. The daily NHS cash limit 
applicable to Mrs Cs policy is £100. And I can see that Aviva paid Mrs C £800 under this 
section of the policy, in line with two hospital admissions Mrs C had. As such then, I find that 
Aviva fairly settled Mrs Cs claim under this part of the contract.
During the course of the complaint, Mrs Cs daughter let Aviva know that due to Covid-19, 
Mrs C had experienced some financial difficulty. In response to this, Aviva agreed to provide 
Mrs C with three months of free cover  outside of the policy terms. I think this was a very 
fair response from Aviva in the circumstances and took into account Mrs Cs personal, 
financial situation.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mrs Cs position, I find that Aviva has treated her 
fairly. And so Im not directing it to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman