DRN-3971344
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) acted unfairly when she asked it 
for help with getting money reimbursed.
What happened
Mrs A is represented in her complaint. But in order to keep things simple I have referred to 
all submissions from Mrs As representative as being made by Mrs A.
Mrs A used her debit card to purchase flights from a third party travel agent I will call T. Mrs 
A claimed that the tickets were counterfeit and she wanted Barclays to help her get her 
money back from T.
Barclays decided that the route it had open to it to try to get back Mrs As money was via a 
process known as chargeback, (Ill say more about the ins and outs of chargeback in the 
what Ive decided and why section below).
In response to the chargeback request, Ts bank on behalf of T raised a defence. Its 
defence was that the tickets were not counterfeit and it sent information to support its stance. 
To refute this claim and support Mrs As stance Barclays needed more information and it 
asked Mrs A for this. It gave her a deadline to provide the information and it also told her that 
if she did not respond in time, it would have to stop pursuing the chargeback.
Unfortunately Mrs A was overseas and was unable to respond to Barclays request for 
information in time. However, even if she had responded Barclays position is that this would 
not have changed the outcome of the chargeback. This is because T was able to show that 
the tickets were genuine.
However, Barclays did accept it had taken too long to set up her complaint and it paid her 
£50 to make up for this. Although this mistake had no bearing on the outcome of the 
chargeback.
Later Mrs A did get a refund of the majority of the money from T but for reasons unrelated to 
the chargeback. The refund was given because one of the flights was cancelled. So in this 
complaint Mrs A is not seeking the total amount she paid to T, rather she just wants the 
balance.
Dissatisfied Mrs A complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs A complaint. He did not recommend that Mrs As 
complaint should be upheld.
Barclays accepted our investigators recommendation, Mrs A did not. In brief she repeated 
her previous stance. She also let us know she could ill afford to lose the money she paid T.
Mrs A asked that an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
As Mrs A paid for the goods and services using her debit card and wanted a refund, 
Ive thought about whether Barclays dealt with her request fairly. The chargeback 
process is relevant in this case. This is a way in which payment settlement disputes are 
resolved between card issuers and merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant 
card scheme rules.
In certain circumstances the process provides a way for Barclays to ask for a payment Mrs 
A made to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent 
supplied or as described/misrepresented by the company Mrs A paid. A chargeback 
doesnt guarantee a refund. Ts bank could and did put forward a defence to any 
chargeback claim. Even though the chargeback was defended, Barclays could have 
pursued the chargeback further and ultimately it could have asked the card scheme 
provider to arbitrate on the outcome. But we would only expect Barclays to initiate a 
chargeback, continue with it after a defence and go to arbitration if there was a reaslistic 
prospect of sucess.
I recognise that Mrs A thinks she has a strong case. But chargeback can only succeed to 
the extent there is a valid chargeback reason and information that can overcome any 
defence raised. Moreover the process is very prescriptive in terms of what information is 
needed to overcome a defence. It is not a forum for investigating the underlying merits of 
the wider dispute between the parties. And in these circumstances given the defence that 
Ts bank raised on Ts behalf there was no realistic prospect of sucess.
Mrs A tells us she had already provided all the information she had to support her 
complaint when she first complained to Barclays. Which means that she had no further 
information to provide to Barclays with in any event. I realise that Mrs A thinks she was 
hampered by her inability to respond within the deadline that Barclays set, but I dont 
agree. I say this because even if she had been able to respond in time as Ive already said 
based on what Ive seen on balance she did not have sufficient information to overcome 
the defence that T raised. 
I note what Mrs A has said about her financial circumstances and why she cannot 
countenance losing any of the money that was paid for the tickets. But whilst I have taken 
this into account, I still have no proper basis for saying in this instance Barclays acted 
unfairly in relation to the chargeback.
Mrs A has mentioned the error Barclays made in setting up her complaint. But it is not the 
main thrust of her complaint. It was an error that was corrected quickly and did not impact on 
the chargeback. Moreover, Mrs A has not mentioned that the error caused her any distress 
or inconvenience. In the circumstances I find that the £50 Barclays has already paid went far 
enough to put this right
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman