DRN-3003614
The complaint
Mr P complains about Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (QFL) and the 
invoice they are charging him for a payment protection insurance (PPI) refund he received in 
2019.
What happened
In 2018, Mr P instructed QFL to pursue claims for mis-sold PPI against several lenders. One 
of these lenders was lender H. Mr P signed a letter of authority (LOA), agreeing to be bound 
by the terms and conditions of the agreement.
QFL submitted several claims on Mr Ps behalf. And the majority of these were successful in 
early 2019. QFL invoiced Mr P for their settlement fees for the successful claims, which 
amounted to over £4,200. But due to Mr Ps personal situation, he was unable to pay these 
fees in full. So, it was agreed that QFL would pass the fees to a solicitor, who Ill refer to as 
J, and Mr P would arrange a suitable payment plan with them directly.
Mr P did this, and he maintained his monthly payment for a number of years. But in 
November 2020, QFL discovered that Mr P had received a PPI refund for a claim that hadnt 
been included in the invoices sent to J. Lender H confirmed Mr P had received a gross 
refund of £2,476.04 in February 2019. So, QFL invoiced Mr P for their settlement fee of 
£594.25 in December 2020, before sending a chaser for payment in January 2021. Mr P was 
unhappy with this invoice, so he raised a complaint.
Mr P didnt think it was fair for QFL to invoice him again, so long after the PPI refund had 
been issued to him. He thought QFLs chase for payment were harassing and upsetting for 
him. He explained hed entered into a payment agreement with J in good faith, based on the 
refunds hed received at the time. And he didnt think it was his fault that QFL had failed to 
include this additional invoice at the time. He also thought hed completed most of the work 
with lender H directly, and that lender H had since told him not to pay any invoice received 
from QFL. So, he wanted QFL to waive the outstanding invoice.
QFL didnt agree. They thought they were entitled to the fee, as they were satisfied the PPI 
refund was offered as a result of the claim they submitted. They didnt think it was their fault 
lender H had failed to send them a copy of the offer letter in 2019 and thought theyd issued 
Mr P with an invoice as soon as reasonably possible. But they recognised the length of time 
that had passed since the refund was received, and that it was likely the money had been 
spent. So, they included an income and expenditure form for Mr P to complete so they could 
set up an affordable repayment plan. Mr P remained unhappy with this response, so he 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She recognised the financial 
difficulty Mr P had experience, due to his family situation and the need to care for his wife 
and daughter. But she didnt think she could say QFL acted unfairly. She thought the refund 
Mr P received had resulted from the claim QFL had submitted. And although she recognised 
Mr P may have spoken to lender H directly, she didnt think this meant the fee wasnt 
payable as Mr P entered into a no win no fee agreement. She explained this meant the fee 
was calculated on how much Mr P received, rather than the amount of work that was 
completed. And she didnt think it was QFLs fault they hadnt received the offer letter at the 
time. She also thought QFL had acted positively and sympathetically by offering a 
repayment plan and provided an income and expenditure form for Mr P to complete. So, she 
didnt think she could say QFL had done anything wrong and because of this, she didnt 
think they needed to do anything more.
Mr P didnt agree. He maintained his view that hed spent several hours speaking to the 
lenders directly. And that this had taken time and effort. He also thought lender H telling him 
not to pay a fee to QFL was evidence QFL were unfair to invoice him for a fee. He didnt 
think the delay in issuing an invoice was fair, and this was made worse by receiving it in the 
middle of the COVID-19 pandemic. So, he thought the invoice should be waived on this 
occasion. As Mr P didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome. 
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr P. Ive no doubt Mr P 
thought all of the outstanding settlement fees he owed to QFL were included in the 
agreement he reached with J. And I recognise he maintained payments towards this 
agreement, to ensure it was paid off. So, when Mr P received a new invoice for an additional 
amount, I can appreciate why this would be both frustrating and upsetting. And I recognise 
this wouldve be made worse by Mr Ps personal situation, where he acts as a carer for his 
wife and daughter, whilst also handling deaths within his family. So, I do appreciate why Mr 
P would deem the invoice to be unfair and understand why he believes it should be waived.
But for me to say the fee should be waived, Id need to be satisfied of one of two things. 
Either, that QFL didnt have the necessary authority to pursue the claim on Mr Ps behalf. Or, 
that the work QFL completed on the claim was of no value to the PPI refund Mr P received. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Mr P doesnt dispute instructing QFL to pursue claims for mis-sold PPI on his behalf. Ive 
seen LOAs Mr P signed in 2018, which agree to be bound by the terms and conditions of 
that agreement. Because of this, Im satisfied QFL did have authority to pursue the claim 
against lender H.
So, Ive then thought about the work QFL completed, and what value this work had on Mr 
Ps claim. 
Ive seen QFL submitted Mr Ps claim to lender H on 19 December 2018. This was 
accompanied by the LOA Mr P signed authorising QFL to act on his behalf which was signed 
on 23 November 2018. And Ive seen lender H acknowledged receipt of this claim on 23 
December 2018. So, Im satisfied the PPI refund Mr P received resulted from the submission 
QFL made.
Im aware Mr P thinks he completed the work that was of value, as he spoke to lender H 
directly. And I dont dispute this may have been the case. There are occasions where a 
lender will speak to a customer directly, rather than their representative, who in this case 
was QFL. But I dont think this is the fault of QFL.By acknowledging Mr Ps claim with QFL, I think lender H were recognising QFL as Mr Hs 
representative. I wouldnt have expected them to write to QFL otherwise. So, if lender H 
contacted Mr P directly, it was lender Hs decision to do so. And I dont think QFL wouldve 
been able to influence this decision. If Mr P was unhappy about speaking to lender H 
directly, I wouldve expected him to refer them to QFL as his representative. I cant see that 
he did so. So, I think Mr H chose to liaise with lender H directly and prevented QFL from 
completing this work on his behalf.
But without QFLs original claim submission, Ive seen no evidence to suggest lender H 
wouldve investigated Mr Ps claim. So, I dont think it wouldve been successful without this. 
So, I think the work QFL submitted was of value to the claim. And the agreement Mr P 
entered into with QFL was a no win no fee agreement. So, any settlement fee was based 
on the PPI refund Mr P received, rather than the work QFL completed. Because of the 
above, I think theyre entitled to charge their settlement fee, in line with the terms and 
conditions of the agreement. 
But I am also aware it took almost two years for QFL to invoice Mr P for their settlement fee, 
which is a significant amount of time. And Ive thought about whether this was fair. QFL say 
they didnt receive the offer letter from lender H. And Ive seen a letter sent from QFL to Mr P 
in March 2019, asking him to provide a copy of the offer letter as they hadnt received one. 
Ive seen no evidence to show Mr P replied to this request.
So, I think its reasonable for me to assume QFL didnt receive a copy of the offer letter. And 
because of this, they wouldve had no way of knowing how much Mr P had been paid so 
wouldve been unable to calculate their invoice. So, when Mr Ps outstanding invoices were 
passed to J, I dont think this wouldve been able to be included. 
While I do think QFL couldve chased this more efficiently after this date, I also think Mr P 
shouldve been aware he owed QFL for this claim, as lender H later confirmed he received 
the refund in February 2019. So, even though it took QFL some time to chase lender H for 
confirmation of the amount that was paid, I dont think they were totally to blame for the 
length of time it took for them to issue an invoice. And, as Ive explained above, I think they 
are fair to charge an invoice as the claim they submitted led to the refund Mr P received.
But as it took so long to invoice Mr P, I think its likely Mr P has spent the money he received. 
So, by invoicing Mr P, QFL are asking him to pay a substantial amount that hes unlikely to 
have available to pay in full. And Id expect QFL to act positively and sympathetically 
towards this situation. Ive seen QFL attached an income and expenditure form to their final 
response to Mr Ps complaint, asking him to complete this so they could agree an affordable 
payment plan. I think QFL have acted fairly and reasonably when doing this, and I think this 
suitably accounts for the length of time it took for an invoice to be sent. So, I dont think QFL 
need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr P was hoping for. And I recognise this impact this may 
have on his finances and his personal situation. Ive took this into account and considered 
this at length when reaching my decision. But for me to say a fee should be waived, Id need 
to be satisfied QFL have done something wrong. And in this situation, I dont think they have.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about Quickly Finance 
Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman