DRN-2272428
The complaint
S, a limited company, has complained Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as 
Cashplus, wont refund him for transactions he didnt authorise.
Mr J, a director of S, represents the company in its complaint.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr J was abroad with a group of friends. He and his friends went out in the 
evening for drinks.  
Whilst they were in a bar, Mr J paid for a round of drinks. He thought this was about €100. 
He wasnt able to pay with his banks debit card as it was blocked. So he used his business 
card  in Ss name  with Cashplus. Nearly two days later he called Cashplus. He didnt 
believe hed authorised the transactions he could see on his account.
Cashplus believed all the evidence showed hed made eight individual transactions (along 
with separate transactions for foreign exchange charges). The transactions alone amounted 
to nearly £6,350. They wouldnt agree to refund him.
Mr J brought Ss complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. She initially couldnt tell how the transactions were 
authenticated. This left doubt in her mind that Ss genuine card was used. So she asked 
Cashplus to refund all the transactions back to S.
Cashplus didnt agree with this outcome. They provided further evidence to show the 
transactions were carried out using the genuine card and PIN. Our investigator then 
informed Mr J that she believed hed authorised these transactions. 
He was unhappy with this. Mr J has asked an ombudsman to consider Ss complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached roughly the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant law here. These primarily 
require banks to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
Certain other circumstances do apply but nothing thats had an impact on the decision Im 
making here. So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones 
fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the 
transactions themselves or allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt 
ask the bank to refund them.
In broad terms a bank or financial institution is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. I have taken that into 
account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Cashplus and Mr J have told us. Ive tried to obtain additional audit information from 
Cashplus but this has proved difficult. However having looked at the evidence theyve 
already provided to show evidence of chip and PIN transactions, this lack of data hasnt had 
a bearing on my decision.
Ive also asked Mr J for further evidence but received no response on Ss behalf. This was to 
elicit further information around the night in question and whether I could get further 
information from Mr Js bank about why they blocked his transaction.
I can see the timeline of events, each partys testimony and how the transactions were made 
were covered in our investigators views of 24 August and 5 October 2020. I dont intend to 
repeat everything that was said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which form the 
basis of my decision. I can reassure Mr J and Cashplus Ive considered the file thoroughly.
The issues I have considered include:
Theres no dispute Mr J was abroad on 11 May with friends. There were about 15 of 
them altogether. The evidence weve received suggests they remained together 
when going into the bar where the transactions occurred.
Mr J didnt initially confirm what type of club they were in (although the transaction 
values make this pretty clear). He told us they were in a bar. 
This is contrary to his initial evidence to Cashplus where he was more upfront about 
the kind of bar they were in; often euphemistically called a gentlemans club. In 
subsequent evidence to our investigator, Mr J confirmed the type of club they were in 
(although he didnt recognise the name from the details on his account statement).
Theres no evidence of any transaction for €100 being attempted. 
But there is a trail of eight transactions of reasonably similar amounts from 03:24 to 
06:41 hours on 11 May. Considering there were 15 of them  and Ive seen no 
evidence there were any transactions paid by anybody else  that works out at about 
£50 a head. Depending on what drinks or services were being purchased, this 
doesnt seem to be an outlandish charge.
Mr J hasnt told us anything of his evening in this bar. So Im unable to say whether 
his usage looks unusual for the time they were in the bar (over a three and a half 
hour period).
Mr J has confirmed at no stage did his card go missing, nor is there any indication he 
was too drunk to have made the transactions. Theres also no obvious way someone 
else could have been making use of his card and making transactions at regular 
intervals throughout the time they were in the club.If Mr J entered his PIN  regardless of the amount he thought he was agreeing to pay 
 he was consenting under the PSRs to those transactions. I have considered this 
aspect. It is possible that Mr J wasnt completely sure exactly how much he was 
paying but kept entering his PIN when asked to. But this isnt what Mr J has said to 
us.
Mr J logged onto Ss Cashplus account a number of times later that day. I think its 
more than likely he would have noticed the pending transactions as authorised. It 
sounds as if it was only when Mr J got home he contacted them to dispute the 
transactions. This may have been due to timing issues but it could just as easily be 
only when he was home, Mr J became overcome by buyers remorse.
Overall I believe the evidence points to Mr J authorising the transactions on Ss card.
Im not at all surprised Mr Js bank blocked his debit card. If theyd seen transactions 
attempted for £700-900, theyd have quickly believed this could be suspicious. Mr J has 
wondered why Cashplus didnt similarly block transactions on Ss account.
Cashplus has said the transactions didnt look out of the norm for Ss use. I disagree with 
that interpretation. Having reviewed Ss statement, I can see no transactions of a similar 
nature. I would have expected Cashplus  as does the regulator  to identify and block 
suspicious transactions. However I dont believe this has a major impact in this case as I 
think Mr J made the transactions himself.
Having reviewed all the issues involved, I believe its most likely Mr J made the transactions 
in the bar himself. Therefore I wont be asking Cashplus to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Ss complaint against Advanced 
Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman