DRN-2157935
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs F hold with Yorkshire Building Society 
(YBS). They say YBS misled them at the outset about how overpayments would be applied 
to their account. They wanted to reduce the term but instead YBS used the overpayments to
reduce the contractual payment, which left the term unchanged. Mr and Mrs F say that, as a 
result, theyve paid more interest, and would like YBS to compensate them for this.
What happened
In 2003 Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage with YBS. They borrowed £25,001 on a 25-year 
term and an initial five-year fixed rate. They took a further advance of around £5,000 later 
the same year. The end dates for both parts of the loan were 20 July 2028 and 11 November 
2028 respectively.
Mr and Mrs F maintain that they always wanted to overpay so instead of the contractual 
monthly payment of about £190, they paid £250. When the initial rate expired in 2008, they 
took a new deal on which the contractual payment was lower. They put this down to the new 
rate. 
Another product switch took place in 2011, expiring in 2013. In 2011 Mr and Mrs F set their 
payments at £150 per month, which was an overpayment of £7.62 on the contractual 
instalment. Theyve maintained payments at £150 ever since. 
Mr and Mrs F say that in 2014 they asked about the accumulated overpayments which were 
about £3,000 by then. Mr and Mrs F say they were told the mortgage would end when Mr F 
was about 63 years old.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs F complained after discovering that YBS had used the overpayments to 
reduce the monthly payments, rather than reduce the term. 
Mr and Mrs F believe YBS failed to advise them properly and misled them about how
the overpayments would work for them. YBS rejected the complaint; it said that under
the account terms, overpayments are used to reduce the contractual payment unless the
borrower writes to specify otherwise. YBS also said theyd need to do that afresh each time 
there was a rate change or an account review.
In Mr and Mrs Fs case, YBS said that the advisor in 2014 had recommended they keep
the term as is, as this would fit with their budget of £150 a month, but that they knew it would
go past Mr Ks 65th birthday. YBS also pointed out that Mr and Mrs F had taken a
payment holiday in 2014 during a short interruption in Mr Ks employment, which had
absorbed about £540 of the surplus created by the accumulated overpayments up to that 
point.
Mr and Mrs F referred their complaint to us; they werent happy that YBS had focussed
just on what had happened in 2014. They said theyd always intended to overpay right from
the outset and that YBS had mis-sold the mortgage.
Our investigator didnt think YBS had done anything wrong in reducing the payments rather 
than the term. He was satisfied that the account terms and conditions said that, in the 
absence of an instruction to the contrary, YBS would apply any overpayment towards 
reducing the monthly repayment. Mr and Mrs F hadnt provided specific instructions that they 
wanted their overpayments to reduce the term, and so he wasnt able to uphold the 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the investigators findings. They say they were assured by YBS 
in 2014 that, based on their overpayments, their mortgage term would end when Mr F was 
about 63 years and 3 months old. 
Mr and Mrs F also say that there are no call recordings from the time the overpayments were 
set up, which means that the Financial Ombudsman Service cant be sure they didnt ask for 
the term to be reduced. Mr and Mrs F say they cant remember asking for a term reduction, 
but that doesnt mean they didnt. 
Mr and Mrs F suggest that, in the absence of any evidence to show that they hadnt asked 
for a term reduction, the assumption must be made that they had. They have asked that the 
available call recordings when Mr F made the complaint in 2019 be put through a lie 
detector, which they say will prove the conversation in 2014 with the mortgage adviser was 
true.
Mr and Mrs F have now paid off the majority of the mortgage, save for £200.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive taken note of everything Mr and Mrs F and YBS have said, and Ive reviewed 
the account history in detail, including the mortgage terms and conditions and all mortgage 
offers.
Having done so, Im afraid I have disappointing news for Mr and Mrs F; Im not upholding 
their complaint. These are my reasons.
The mortgage terms and conditions from 2003 explain that, unless YBS is specifically 
requested to do so, overpayments will be used to reduce the monthly repayment, not the 
mortgage term. Later product switch documents from 2011 onwards reiterate this in the 
product switch offers, saying:
If you want a lump sum payment or regular overpayments to reduce your mortgage 
term you must:
tell us at the time of making the lump sum payment
set up and maintain a static payment arrangement
monitor the static payment arrangement to take account of any changes to 
your mortgage such as interest rate increases
contact us at each Account Review, or when a recalculation event occurs, to 
ensure the payment arrangement continues to meet your needs.
There is nothing in the account history or contact notes to show Mr and Mrs F made a 
specific request to reduce their mortgage term on each annual review or product change. Ive noted what Mr and Mrs F have said about their discussion with the mortgage adviser in 
2014. I dont doubt Mr and Mrs Fs sincerity, but overall Im not persuaded that a clear 
instruction has ever been given to YBS to apply their overpayments to a term reduction.
Mr and Mrs F say that, because there is no evidence of them making such a request, then 
the assumption must be made that they had, in fact, made the request. However, YBS 
requires a request to maintain any arrangement reduce the term to be made at each annual 
review. 
Given this, Im satisfied there would not be a single request to reduce the term which 
somehow was overlooked; rather, there would be something recorded in the account history 
every year since their overpayments began to show that Mr and Mrs F wanted their 
overpayments to be applied to a term reduction. The fact that there is no such regular 
confirmation persuades me that Mr and Mrs F didnt make a specific request for a term 
reduction. 
I also note that the annual mortgage statements show the contractual end date of the 
mortgage as 2028, which again is persuasive that no request for a term reduction was made.
Im satisfied YBS has applied the overpayments in line with its terms and conditions, as set 
out in the original documents provided in 2003, and in subsequent product switch offers. I 
appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs F were hoping for. But after carefully reviewing 
all the evidence, and after taking account of everything Mr and Mrs F and YBS have said, 
Im unable to find that YBS has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman