DRN-1994792
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the settlement she received from AXA Insurance UK Plc in respect of 
her landlords insurance claim for water damage to her tenanted property.
What happened
In July 2019 there was an escape of water from the washing machine at Mrs Bs tenanted 
property. The kitchen, lounge and hallway were damaged so Mrs B raised a claim with AXA. 
Mrs B paid a total of £4,126.26 for the repairs, however, AXA only settled the claim for 
£2,262.34. It said she was underinsured as she had declared a rebuild value of £85,000 
when she took the policy out in 2017 (now increased by index linking to £88,247). So, AXA 
said itd applied the policys average clause (paying her 56% of her claim) to the settlement. 
Mrs B complained to AXA. She said shed declared a rebuild cost of £250,000 when 
applying for the policy. 
AXA looked into her complaint but didnt think itd done anything wrong. AXA said Mrs Bs 
policy declared a rebuild value of £88,247 but its loss adjuster had assessed it to be 
£155,000. AXA noted that Mrs B had applied for the policy online in November 2017 and had 
input the rebuild value herself when prompted during the application process. AXA said 
detailed information about calculating the rebuild cost was available during the application 
process. 
AXA also noted that Mrs B had followed up her online application in November 2017 with a 
phone call during which its sales advisor had gone through the information inputted and 
Mrs B had confirmed the (2017) rebuild cost to be £85,000, not £250,000.
Unhappy with the outcome of her complaint to AXA, Mrs B complained to this service. Our 
investigator looked into Mrs Bs complaint but didnt think AXA had treated her unfairly or 
unreasonably in the circumstances. Mrs B disagreed with our investigators view and asked 
for her complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs B took out her policy online in November 2017 she was asked during the 
application process what the rebuild value of her property was. From the copy of that 
application that AXA has provided us with I can see that she was asked: what would it cost 
to rebuild this property? Next to this question there is a question mark. Clicking on the 
question mark provides further information about the question. It explains the rebuild cost is 
the sum insured shown on the schedule. It asks consumers to tell AXA:
how much it would cost to rebuild the property if the worst was to happen to it  this amount 
should be greater than £50,000. Remember this is not the same as the market value of the 
property. The rebuild value that you enter should include things like fixtures and fittings, 
internal decoration, fences and gates. It should also include any roads, pavements, or
underground pipes and cables that either belong to you or that youre responsible for,
as well as an allowance for professional fees and debris and removal costs resulting
from the loss. It is important that you provide us with an accurate rebuild value for your 
property. If you dont, you may not be fully protected in the event of a claim. If you need help 
you can use the Association of the British Insurers rebuilding cost calculator as a guide to
contact a qualified surveyor or valuer.
After completing her online application, AXA sent Mrs B a quote. I can see that the quote 
stated that the buildings reinstatement declared value of the property was £85,000. Next to
this it defines the buildings reinstatement declared value as: the cost of rebuilding the
property as new at the start of the period of insurance, including additional costs to
comply with public authority requirements, professional fees and debris removal costs.
The day after completing the online quote, Mrs B called AXA to discuss the policy. During 
the call the sales advisor went through the quote and confirmed the rebuild cost of £85,000 
with Mrs B. Ive listened to the call and can hear that Mrs B agreed with what the sales 
advisor was asking her. 
So, Im, satisfied from the information Ive seen that Mrs B was asked to provide a rebuild 
cost for the property, was given accessible information about how to calculate what that 
might be and, having inserted a figure, then received written confirmation declaring the figure 
shed chosen. And, having listened to the call the following day between Mrs B and AXA Im 
satisfied AXA asked her to confirm the rebuild cost was £85,000 which she did. I know that 
Mrs B said she declared a rebuild cost of £250,000 but unfortunately for her Ive not seen 
any evidence that she did. 
When an insurer validates a claim, it will typically check that the cover its provided (at the 
price it agreed) covers the risk it has been asked to insure and which it is being asked to 
indemnify. That includes checking that the sum insured for reinstatement of the buildings is 
adequate. I can see here that the loss adjuster assessed the value at risk rebuild cost to be 
£155,000. That meant that Mrs B was underinsured and only 56% of the risk was covered. 
In circumstances such as these, insurers will often apply the policys average clause (should 
it contain one) to the claims settlement. Such clauses allow insurers to proportionately 
reduce a claim settlement in line with the percentage by which the property was 
underinsured. Ive checked Mrs Bs policy and can see that it contains such a clause. Given 
AXA had provided Mrs B with sufficiently clear information to explain the rebuild cost and 
that she had underinsured the property, I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to have 
relied on this clause when settling her claim.
Whilst I appreciate Mrs Bs strength of feeling on the matter, I cant fairly uphold her 
complaint. I know shes said that we cant be certain that the Association of British Insurers 
(ABI) value is correct but its not the role of our service to determine if it is or isnt. The figure 
is generated by the ABI and, in the absence of any specific evidence (such as a report from 
a surveyor) to dispute the figure its reached, it wouldnt be reasonable to disregard it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman