DRN-4355470
The complaint
Mr S complains that Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd (Ascot Lloyd) 
caused delays in the transfer of his occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). Mr S complains that the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
his OPS fell by around £76,000.
What happened
Mr S approached Ascot Lloyd in 2021 because he wanted to transfer the benefits that he 
held in an OPS to a SIPP that he already held. 
Ascot Lloyd obtained a CETV from Mr Ss OPS on 11 November 2021. The CETV was 
£1,006,264 and was guaranteed until 5 February 2022. I will refer to this as CETV1.
Ascot Lloyd completed the advice process with a recommendation that the transfer Mr S 
wished to make was suitable. The transfer instruction was then sent to the receiving SIPP 
provider by email and post on Wednesday 2 February 2022.
The SIPP provider received that email on 2 February 2022 after business hours and by post 
on Friday 4 February 2022. The SIPP provider explained that it had a five day service level 
agreement and processed the request to the OPS administrator on Tuesday 8 February 
2022. By which time the CETV had expired so the transfer didnt go through.
Mr S requested a new CETV which was £930,290 and guaranteed until 18 May 2022. I will 
refer to this as CETV2. Mr S decided to go ahead with the transfer of CETV2. Which 
completed in early April 2022. 
Mr S complained to Ascot Lloyd about the time it took to provide its recommendation and 
process his transfer application. He blamed Ascot Lloyd for failing to secure CETV1.
Ascot Lloyd didnt agree that it was responsible for the delays. It explained that the process 
was complex and it hadnt provided any guarantee that the process could be completed 
within the guarantee period of CETV1. And it explained that the advice to transfer was as 
much based on Mr Ss circumstances and overall objectives as it was based on the financial 
viability of the transfer value.
Mr S brought his complaint to our service where one of our investigators considered what 
happened. He identified what he thought were unreasonable delays on the part of Ascot 
Lloyd when it completed the abridged advice part of the process. He thought that it was 
unnecessary for Mr S to have had to complete the Abridged Advice Questionnaire three 
times for the process to move forward. And the knock on effect of that was that Ascot Lloyd 
ran out of time at the end of the process. Even though it had emailed the transfer request at 
the end of 2 February 2022 it didnt do enough to highlight the urgency to the OPS 
administrator, meaning that it didnt expedite the request. Our investigator thought that the 
transfer could have been completed by 3 December 2021. And suggested what Ascot Lloyd 
should do to put things right.
Ascot Lloyd disagreed. It stated that the transfer could never have completed by 
3 December 2021 as that wouldnt have allowed enough time to complete all of the stages. 
And it still maintained that it was not responsible for the missed deadline as it had made it 
clear to Mr S that the process could take three to six months.
The case was referred for an ombudsmans decision. After considering what happened, I 
also thought that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. And issued a provisional decision to 
both parties to give them the opportunity to comment or provide outstanding evidence before 
I issued my final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN). And where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
In particular I consider that the following from PRIN provides useful context for my 
assessment of Ascot Lloyds actions here.
Principle 2: A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care, and diligence.
Principle 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
I will start off by acknowledging that transfers from OPSs to personal pensions  like Mr Ss 
SIPP  are closely regulated and can be time consuming to complete. There is no set 
timescale for each stage of the process. And there are various parties involved, any of whom 
can cause delays.
Ascot Lloyd explain that it required Mr S to watch an instructional video on 1 October 2021 
so that he was informed about the regulatory requirements of this type of transfer. So the 
process of transferring started for Mr S at the beginning of October 2021. 
It appears that this was completed promptly and by 11 October 2021 Mr S had signed a 
client agreement, And Ascot Lloyd say that it would have completed a fact find at that time, 
although I have seen no evidence of it. Ascot Lloyd explains that it met with Mr S on 
2 November 2021. It explains that it completed an Abridged Advice Questionnaire (AAQ) 
with Mr S as part of that process.
Ascot Lloyd has provided us with a copy of the AAQ that it uses. The copy we have was 
signed by Mr S on 5 January 2022. But I accept that was due to an administrative 
requirement due to a failure to have a clear copy on record from earlier in the process. 
The copy of the AAQ that I have seen has a Frequently Asked Questions and Answers 
section. It explained that the process of gathering information until presenting a 
recommendation could take anywhere between three to nine months. And it did explain that 
a CETV would only be guaranteed for one to three months. So it might be likely that a new 
CETV would be required and that the OPS administrators may charge for that. So I think that 
Mr S ought to have been aware from the outset that it was possible that any guarantee on 
the CETV may not be met.
And I think it was entirely reasonable of Ascot Lloyd to manage Mr Ss expectations in that 
way. As I acknowledged, there are other parties involved that Ascot Lloyd could not control. For example, it would need to prepare abridged advice for Mr S to consider. But it would 
have no control over how long he might need to consider that advice and decide on whether 
to proceed. Similarly Ascot Lloyd would have no control over how long Mr S might need to 
consider and decide on any full recommendation it provided him. Or how quickly he might be 
able to provide information needed or his availability to complete the necessary forms. But 
including a warning about how long the process may take doesnt remove Ascot Lloyds 
obligation under Principle 2 and Principle 6, referred to above.
Providing abridged advice is an option that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) allow to 
prevent the need for all consumers to go through a full and costly advice process where the 
recommendation may be that a transfer is unsuitable. But, where offered, it introduces 
another stage into the advice process which takes time. In this case, from receipt of CETV1 
from the OPS administrators on 11 November 2021 it took until 4 January 2021 for Ascot 
Lloyd to send Mr S the abridged advice. This seems a long time and I have considered 
whether this was fair and reasonable.
Ascot Lloyd have stated that it had already completed a fact find and its AAQ prior to even 
receiving the CETV. Its provided no timeline to help me understand why it took nearly two 
months to give Mr S his abridged advice. I understand that it had to go back to Mr S to 
obtain a further signed AAQ from him because the scanned copy it had on record was 
unclear. It seems Mr S needed to do this a further two times. I think that its likely that the 
copy weve been provided signed 5 January 2022 contained the same information that Ascot 
Lloyd had at the outset. And the abridged advice was provided to Mr S prior to this AAQ 
being signed. So I dont think this caused a delay in the process. And even if it did, this delay 
was not Mr Ss fault.
As I have said, Ascot Lloyd havent provided a clear explanation of why it took so long to 
provide abridged advice. But based on correspondence Ive seen its adviser told Mr S in an 
email, on 10 Dec 2021, that it had the abridged report and would go through it and do a 
further questionnaire the next week. And move to the full report that it expected early 
January. This email was in a response to Mr S querying how long it would take.
Ascot Lloyd havent provided us with the Abridged Advice report. But said it was actually 
completed 21 December. But this is 7 working days after Mr S was told it was available. I 
think that it is unlikely that the adviser was lying to Mr S. The adviser ought to have been on 
top of the case at the time. So I think its more likely than not that the information the adviser 
gave Mr S at the time was correct. 
So, based on the evidence, Mr S ought really to have been in possession of the abridged 
advice in the week following the email of 10 December 2021 as indicated. I think that would, 
quite likely have made the promised timescale of a full suitability report in early January 
realistic.
But Mr S wasnt sent the abridged advice letter until 4 January 2022 according to Ascot 
Lloyd. And it says that the request for full advice was made by 8 January 2022. Which 
means that Mr S did not waste a great deal of time in responding and moving to full advice. 
Which, given his genuine interest in the OPS transfer was not surprising.
Ascot Lloyd say that it only took a further 17 working days, from being given the go ahead to 
provide full advice. Ascot Lloyd have said that was not unreasonable. It hasnt explained the 
process or steps involved to justify the time. But it would have involved obtaining detailed 
analysis of the financial viability and the preparation of a detailed and considered 
recommendation. So I accept that 17 working days may well have been reasonable. But it 
leaves me even more unclear why, if full advice could be provided in that time frame, the 
abridged advice took so long. Ascot Lloyd promised Mr S the provision of the abridged advice in the week following Friday 
10 December 2021. So I think that by 17 December 2021 Ascot Lloyd should have delivered 
that to Mr S. I think hed, more likely than not, have responded equally quickly to request full 
advice as the next stage.  
I understand that the time that Ascot Lloyd would then have had to produce the full 
recommendation would have been impacted by the Christmas period. And it has explained 
that effectively meant that it lost from 24 December 2021 until 4 January because its office 
was closed. Even so, it has shown that it only needed 17 working days to produce that 
report. Had it acted as quickly to produce the full advice, but started to do so when I think it 
ought to have, it could have had everything done by 20 January 2021. Which would have 
been eight working days earlier than the recommendation that it actually gave Mr S.
It is worth noting that Mr Ss transfer was simplified by the fact that he already had a SIPP 
that he wanted to use. So didnt need to apply to open that and it didnt form part of the 
recommendation. Which would have saved time, which would have made securing the 
CETV a realistic expectation. 
After providing the written recommendation, dated 1 February 2022, Ascot Lloyd were able 
to get the transfer forms emailed and posted to the SIPP provider and the OPS scheme on 
2 February 2022. This again shows no delay on Mr Ss part in considering the advice or 
accepting it. I also think that it shows Ascot Lloyds understanding of the urgency, with the 
CETV deadline being so close. But It gave the SIPP provider only two working days to 
process the forms. Which left too little time to have much chance of beating the CETV 
deadline. 
I cant see any other reason for this failing than Ascot Lloyds failure to promptly provide 
Mr S with the abridged advice. Which I suspect was, most likely ready from 10 December 
2021. Had it delivered that when it told Mr S it would, I think the process would have 
completed, and the correct transfer documents been sent, by 21 January 2021. What 
happened after that would have been out of Ascot Lloyds hands. But based on what actually 
happened, I think that its more reasonable than not that would have been enough time for 
the guaranteed deadline for CETV1 to have been met, given the service level agreements of 
the other parties. The SIPP provider would have had 10 working days to make the request 
for the transfer of funds, which was more time than it required.
For the reasons Ive given, I dont think that the service Ascot Lloyd provided Mr S was fair 
or reasonable. It failed in its duty to Mr S under principle 2 and principle 6 of PRIN. But for 
this service failing, I think that Mr S would have most likely been in a position of having his 
CETV1 transferred, and at an earlier time.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr S responded to acknowledge receipt of my provisional decision and confirm that he had 
no further points to raise. Ascot Lloyd didnt respond within the deadline given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive had no further evidence provided, or comments that Ive been asked to consider. So, 
having considered the same evidence again, my final decision is the same as the provisional 
finding I reached and shared earlier. I uphold Mr Ss complaint for the reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision and repeated above.Putting things right
I cant know for certain what would have happened had Ascot Lloyd provided Mr S with the 
service I think it should have. But my intention is to put Mr S, as close as is now possible, 
into the position I think hed most likely have been but for that failing.
It appears that, following the provision of CETV2, Mr S sent the transfer documentation to 
his SIPP provider by 23 March 2022. Which was 42 working days later than I think the 
completed forms should have been sent (on 21 January 2022) to the SIPP provider. Which 
means that. All other things being equal, Mr Ss SIPP would most likely have received 
CETV1 42 working days earlier than it received CETV2. Ascot Lloyd recommended that 
Mr S invest the transfer value in Avellamy MPS Active 6 investment portfolio and I think 
CETV1 would have been invested in that fund on the earlier date.
I think Ascot Lloyd should do the following:
A- Calculate the notional value of CETV1 if it had been received by the SIPP 42 working 
days before the transfer actually completed, and was invested in the Avellamy MPS 
Active 6 portfolio until the date of the actual transfer of CETV2.
B- Mr Ss loss at the point of the actual transfer of CETV2 is the difference between the 
calculation at step A and CETV2.
C- If B shows a loss, that loss should be adjusted for the effect of investment returns 
from the date of the actual transfer of CETV2 until the date that Ascot Lloyd is told 
that Mr S accepts my final decision. Those returns should be based on the actual 
performance of Mr Ss SIPP over that period.
Mr S should be compensated by the total loss given at step C by paying that sum into his 
SIPP where possible. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available 
tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the SIPP if it would conflict with any 
protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
If Mr S has remaining tax-free cash entitlement, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to their likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
If payment of compensation is not made within 28 days of Ascot Lloyd receiving Mr Ss 
acceptance of my final decision, interest must be added to the compensation at the rate of 
8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Ascot Lloyd deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Ascot Lloyd should give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr S asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HMRC if appropriate.
In addition to this, Ascot Lloyds mistake caused Mr S a degree of distress. He suffered the 
disappointment of finding out at the last minute that he had lost around £76,000 from his 
transfer value. And was put to an unnecessary amount of inconvenience in having to request 
a further CETV, and the delay whilst duplicating transfer forms that he had already completed for the original transfer. So I think that Ascot Lloyd should pay Mr S £250 in 
compensation for this distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd to 
compensate Mr S in the manner set out in Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman