DRN-3435097
The complaint
Mr C complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Seat Financial 
Services (VWFS) have treated him unfairly in terminating his Hire Purchase Agreement 
after some arrears built up during the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown period in 2020. 
What happened
Firstly, for clarity, we have communicated often on this case with Mrs C, after Mr C asked us 
to discuss the case with her. As she is representing him, I will always refer to Mr C below as 
having given us information or answers. I appreciate this can sometimes be confusing, but 
the evidence given to us by Mrs C has been done so on behalf of Mr C, so I will refer only to 
Mr C for simplicity. 
Mr C entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS in August 2019 for a car. In late 
March 2020, he contacted VWFS to ask for support as the Covid-19 lockdown meant he 
couldnt work so would struggle to make payments. In early April 2020, breathing space 
was applied to the account to allow a 60 day period where he wouldnt be chased for 
payments whilst he considered his options going forward. 
The next contact came in July 2020. Mr C emailed asking to be called to set up payments 
again, and after failing to get hold of Mr C to discuss this, VWFS emailed back to explain 
they had left a voicemail and gave a number to call back on. There appears to then be no 
contact until into 2021, however Mr C did manage to proactively reset up the same monthly 
payments himself. Mr C was sent a notice of arrears in October 2020 confirming the amount 
of arrears outstanding and requesting he call VWFS to discuss. 
In February and March 2021, VWFS sent text messages, letters, and an email in an attempt 
to get hold of Mr C. They issued a default notice by post on 8 February 2021 asking Mr C to 
pay off the arrears by 27 February 2021, or they would have to terminate the agreement. 
This was followed up by a text on 12 February 2021, and an email and voicemail on 11 
March 2021 asking for urgent contact before 17 March 2021. A further notice of sums in 
arrears letter was sent by post on 17 March 2021, before VWFS terminated the agreement 
on 22 March 2021 and passed the debt for collection to another company. 
Mr C contacted them on 25 March 2021 by phone to discuss the situation as he felt he had 
an agreed payment deferral/holiday in place for the missed payments. VWFS explained this 
wasnt the case and that because Mr C hadnt contacted them about the arrears after they 
had tried to contact him several times, the account had now been terminated. They 
explained that going forward, he would need to speak to the debt collection firm who had 
bought the debt. 
Mr C complained and VWFS provide their response in April 2021. They didnt uphold the 
complaint, explaining that they felt they had done what they needed to do and provided the 
required notification of their intention to terminate the agreement unless payment was 
received. 
Unhappy with this, Mr C brought his complaint to our service. He also arranged to clear the 
balance with the debt collection company in the summer of 2021. 
An investigator here investigated the complaint and gave their view that whilst the 
circumstances were unfortunate, they couldnt uphold the complaint. VWFS hadnt done 
anything wrong, and whilst they could see where confusion had occurred, VWFS had met all 
the requirements we would expect to see in circumstances like these, so they wouldnt be 
asking VWFS to do anymore. 
Mr C contacted the investigator to discuss the view. He felt the investigator had sided with 
the business and felt that the default notice issued didnt need to be acted upon as it 
included arrears for the period of breathing space, which wouldnt have needed to be paid. 
He also felt that he could ignore the October 2020 notice of arrears as they had been told 
during breathing space that they could ignore standard letters about arrears.  
Mr C felt that he had misunderstood the breathing space element of the arrears. The 
investigator here explained why they didnt feel this changed their view and agreed to ask 
VWFS to provide a call recording that Mr C felt would support their case. 
Following on from this in further conversations in the following days, Mr C said that he felt 
that the default notice was sent to an address they had just sold so they didnt receive it, and 
because the other communication didnt express the specific urgency or reasons for needing 
to speak to Mr C, they didnt think it was fair for VWFS to then go ahead and terminate the 
agreement. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr C asked for an Ombudsman to review the case 
and issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr C was supplied with a vehicle under a 
hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it.
Firstly, Id like to express my sympathy to Mr C for the events here, and how things have 
played out. I completely appreciate that everything he has done was done in good faith, and 
I think the outcome of the termination of the agreement was unfortunate. 
But, for the purposes of this complaint, what I have to do is to establish whether VWFS 
treated him fairly in their dealings with him, and whether they followed due process and 
relevant legislation in terminating the agreement. Whilst I have sympathy with whats 
happened, I have to treat both parties fairly in assessing the evidence to decide this. 
When we originally investigated the case, a detailed timeline was shared with both parties. I 
dont propose to go through this in the same level of detail, as I think both parties are aware 
of this and there arent too many areas on which there is disagreement. Instead, I want to 
focus on the reasons for the timeline and the problems that ensued, and on the breakdown in communication here which led to the termination of the agreement. 
There has clearly been a breakdown in communications here, which began due to the 
problems created by the Covid-19 pandemic. I appreciate Mr Cs comments that earlier in 
2020, when he was trying to speak to VWFS to arrange support with his payments, he 
couldnt get through to them on the phone. This mirrors the problems most businesses 
around the country were facing when staff were suddenly prevented from going into work 
and had to try to work from home. But I dont think this has had any significant impact here 
on the problems which followed on. 
In March/April 2020 Mr C had an email conversation with VWFS and they arranged 
breathing space for him. When someone is having financial difficulties, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) requires that financial businesses deal with them with forbearance 
and due consideration. 
In addition to this, the FCA issued specific guidance on 27 April 2020, about how to deal with 
customers who were affected by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. However, when Mr C 
first contacted VWFS about his issues, this was before the FCA had issued any Covid-19 
guidance. 
So, VWFS offered him 60-days breathing space and asked Mr C to speak to them once this 
was over (6 June 2020). This is a standard tool which businesses can use with customers 
who are asking for support due to payment difficulties and is a reasonable approach in the 
circumstances. 
By June 2020, the FCA Covid-19 guidance was in place, so potentially VWFS and Mr C 
could then have discussed further support, including potentially a payment deferral which 
could have been backdated. But there doesnt appear to have been any significant 
communication between the parties again until the agreement was terminated nearly a year 
later.
 Mr C has said he tried to speak to VWFS several times but couldnt get through on the 
phone. I can see he emailed them in July 2020 asking for someone to call him, and that 
VWFS tried to call and left a voicemail. They followed up with an email to confirm theyd tried 
to call and asked him to call them again. Theres then no evidence of any contact between 
the parties after this until the agreement was terminated. 
Mr C has told us that unable to get hold of them, he set up a monthly payment again himself 
for the standard monthly amount, which went ahead from August 2020 to March 2021. Up to 
this point, I have no concerns with how either party have acted. In a difficult time to remain in 
contact with customers, VWFS have done what they can, and Mr C has acted in good faith 
by setting up a monthly payment again himself. 
During the following months, before they issued a default notice, VWFS did send a notice of 
arrears letter in October 2020. Mr C told us he didnt think he had to do anything with this, 
because when he had set up the breathing space, hed been told standard regulatory letters 
would continue to be sent but could be ignored. 
However, Im not persuaded this was a reasonable course of action. Theres no evidence 
phone contact with VWFS was as difficult during this period (and theyve confirmed their 
phone lines were operational to normal levels during this period), and the breathing space 
information provided to him was clear that it was for the 60 day period that he could ignore 
regulatory letters, not for the rest of his agreement. This was many months after the 60 days 
of breathing space.  Both parties here have made assumptions about what was going on at different times. Im 
going to discuss these assumptions, and how fair they were to make, and what impact they 
have had. 
Apart from the October 2020 notice of arrears, VWFS havent provided evidence of trying to 
contact Mr C further about the arrears until February 2021. This isnt ideal, but again, Covid 
was still having an impact on most businesses and consumers at this point. Alongside this, 
allowing the arrears to continue has not caused any issues for Mr C at this point. Hes been 
making regular payments without any further arrears building up. Then in February 2021, 
having heard nothing more from Mr C following the October 2020 arrears notice about how 
he planned/wanted to deal with the arrears, VWFS have issued a default notice by post and 
in March 2021 a further arrears notice by post too. In this period theyve also sent a text 
message to Mr C, sent an email, and attempted phone communication. 
Mr C has said that they had just moved to a new house, and he doesnt respond to 
unsolicited calls on his phone. He also said that the messages he did see didnt impress any 
urgency on him that action was required or give any detail. Ive seen the note of the email 
sent, and it does say they need to speak to him urgently, and by 17 March 2021. 
VWFS have then assumed Mr C is refusing to engage with them about the arrears and 
proceeded to terminate the agreement on this basis. Ive considered whether this 
assumption feels fair, and Im satisfied it does. Theyve carried out the regulatory default 
notice and notices of arrears required of them. Theyve also used all communication 
methods available to try to get in touch with Mr C, but to no avail. So, whilst its unfortunate 
that until this point, they hadnt been able to speak to Mr C, I am satisfied that they gave him 
plenty of opportunity to respond to them and discuss the arrears. 
At the same time, Mr C has told both VWFS and our service that he assumed the missed 
payments would be payable at the end. Hes also said he assumed a payment deferral 
(holiday) was in place. Ive examined the communications and evidence provided to see 
whether this assumption feels fair, and Im not persuaded that it does. 
I completely appreciate that in the outside world/media, by the summer of 2020 onwards, a 
lot of talk was about payment holidays to help customers cope with financial pressure the 
pandemic had created. But theres no evidence of any communication between Mr C and 
VWFS that talks about him having a payment holiday/deferral or asking for one. So, whilst I 
can understand Mr C perhaps assuming he would be able to do this, he didnt ask for it, and 
nothing VWFS sent to him mentioned payment deferrals or holidays. 
If I compare communications between the parties, Mr C has told us that when he has 
reached out by phone, hes struggled to get a response, but when he has emailed VWFS 
they have responded and engaged in discussing things with him. However, when VWFS 
have sent letters, left voicemails, sent text messages and sent emails, Mr C hasnt 
responded to any of them.  
Further to this, Mr C has told us that he ignored the arrears notice sent in October 2020, 
because he felt he could still do this as part of the breathing space hed had. But the arrears 
notice is clear that the money is owing, and he should call VWFS to discuss it. At this time, I 
dont think he would have had the same issues in contacting the business, but theres no 
evidence he reached out and tried. Id also have expected to see email contact if he was 
having difficulty getting through on the phone, as he had done earlier in the year. 
Then when the default notice was sent, Mr C initially told us that because he felt these 
payments had been deferred, he didnt think he needed to act on this. Again, I dont think 
this was a reasonable response to a notice which gave clear instructions as to what he needed to do to avoid termination, and which had no mention of deferrals. If he felt this was 
the case, Id expect him to have contacted VWFS to discuss this, and why they were 
sending the default notice. 
Following this, there was also a suggestion from Mr C that the written default notice hadnt 
actually been received because Mr C had moved to a new house. Again, this would be 
unfortunate, but I cant hold VWFS responsible for this when they hadnt been informed of a 
house move.  
Alongside the evidence provided of text messages, emails, and attempted phone calls, Im 
satisfied that VWFS did all that could be expected to bring to the attention of Mr C that 
arrears existed which he needed to speak to them about or they were going to terminate the 
agreement. 
I think this is the crux of the issue here. I have sympathy for Mr C and can understand to an 
extent some of his actions and assumptions. Its also unfortunate that the Covid-19 
pandemic caused these issues at the beginning. But fundamentally, VWFS have done 
nothing wrong. There was some difficulty getting hold of VWFS in the early stages of 
lockdown, but these difficulties were overcome and there shouldnt really have been any 
confusion about things at that point. After that, there was no communication of substance for 
the situation to be clarified. But VWFS have made several attempts to discuss things with Mr 
C before proceeding to terminate the agreement.  
This is an unfortunate situation where Mr C has made an incorrect assumption, and this 
assumption has led to him ignoring all communications from VWFS. If hed spoken to them, 
and he wanted a payment holiday to cover the missed payments, I am sure that VWFS could 
have backdated a request for a payment deferral to put him into the situation he believed he 
was in. But it wouldnt be appropriate for VWFS to proactively offer a payment deferral to Mr 
C without discussing it with him first. They would need to have a conversation, listen to his 
concerns or issues and then the two parties could come up with the most suitable plan of 
action to deal with the arrears. VWFS have tried several times to discuss the arrears, but Mr 
C hasnt responded to them.   
Unfortunately, Mr C made no contact until the termination had been completed. At this point, 
VWFS have said theres nothing more they can do, and Im satisfied that action is 
reasonable. Mr C asked us to retrieve the recording of the phone call he had with them on 
25 March 2021 as he felt it supported his case, but this came after VWFS had terminated the 
agreement. Theyd given Mr C numerous opportunities to contact them, but once they have 
heard nothing and processed the termination, I wouldnt expect them to try to unwind this, so 
I have no concerns here. 
Im sorry this wont be the answer Mr C had hoped for, and I have great sympathy with him, 
but the evidence shows that VWFS did everything I would expect to see in an attempt to 
avoid the termination of the agreement, and to give Mr C the opportunity to put things right 
first. So, whilst I sympathise with Mr C, VWFS have treated him fairly, and the ensuing 
termination isnt because of any error or fault by them. As such, I wont be asking them to do 
anything further.  
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman