DRN-3933021
The complaint
Mr G complains about the redress hes been offered since he returned a car he was
financing through an agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as
ALPHERA Financial Services (AFS).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in January 2023. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Mr G took receipt of a used car in July 2021. He financed the deal through a hire purchase
agreement with AFS.
The car had many problems and eventually an agreement was reached to return it to the
dealership as it wasnt of satisfactory quality. The dealership agreed to refund Mr Gs
£15,000 deposit and to settle the finance agreement with AFS.
Mr G returned the car and the agreement was settled by the dealership. They refunded
£19,299.87 to Mr G but say they paid Mr G more than they intended to. They want Mr G to
return £4,299.87 as they only intended to return his £15,000 deposit.
Further promises were made by the dealership, and by AFS, to pay additional amounts as
well as the return of the deposit in order to settle Mr Gs claim. But in AFSs final response to
Mr G they made no mention of any additional payments but explained that, as the quality
issues hadnt impacted on Mr Gs use of the car, they wouldnt be refunding any of the
finance instalments hed paid.
Mr G therefore referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think AFS had
done enough to put things right for Mr G. He explained it was this services usual approach
to tell a business to pay interest on any deposit refund and he also thought the business
should pay Mr G £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hed
experienced. He noted that Mr G had paid eight monthly instalments towards his finance
agreement but that hed had the car for a little less than that. He therefore suggested AFS
should provide a pro-rata refund for the part of the month Mr G had paid for but had not had 
any use of the car.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator. He thought all his finance instalments should be
returned and that he should receive additional compensation. AFS didnt agree either. They
noted that Mr G had already received an excess payment of £4,299.87 and they explained
that hed been kept mobile when his car was off the road as the dealership had provided a
courtesy vehicle. They did, however, agree to pay Mr G £150 in compensation.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator that further redress should be provided but Im persuaded that
redress should be a little more generous than he suggested. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then AFS, who are also the supplier of
the car, are responsible.
Theres no argument here that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Mr G experienced
problems with a grinding noise coming from the rear axle, a passenger air bag fault, an issue
with the front suspension, a knocking noise whilst moving, a rear tail gate automatic closure
problem, SOS limited functionality, a retracting side step fault and an issue with the offside
front window tints. When a further issue with a headlight washer was being investigated it
was noted that there were signs the car had been in a front end collision before Mr G had
taken charge of it. All parties agree that the car should therefore be rejected, the finance
agreement has been settled and the deposit has been refunded.
Our investigator suggested AFS should calculate interest on the deposit and pay that to
Mr G. Id agree, as Mr G has been deprived of the deposit whilst hes been financing a car
that was of unsatisfactory quality.
The investigator also suggested AFS should pay Mr G £150. I dont think thats sufficient to
compensate Mr G for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced. Ive read that Mr G
had to take the car back to the dealership on at least four occasions and that was before the
issue with the headlight washer/front end damage was investigated. There have also been
problems arranging adequate redress. I can see that on 23 February 2022 AFS emailed
Mr G and said hed receive his deposit, an additional £3,000 from the dealership and that
theyd refund an additional monthly instalment. But subsequently, when the dealership
refunded too much money, that offer was rescinded. I think that inconvenienced Mr G. On
balance, I think £300 compensation is a fairer assessment of the compensation due.
Our investigator didnt think AFS needed to refund any of the finance instalments that had
been paid. The relevant legislation allows the business to retain some of the finance
instalments they have been paid to compensate them for the use the consumer has had
from the car. The correspondence suggests that the car was returned having completed
about 6,000 miles in about eight months. Thats a little under average mileage. Mr G has
also explained that his car was in the garage for about eight to ten weeks. So, I think Mr Gs
use of the car has been impaired by the problems hes experienced. But AFS mitigated
some of that by providing Mr G with a courtesy car whilst his car was in the garage. Mr G
has explained that courtesy car wasnt of the same standard as the one he was financing. Id
agree, the courtesy car appears to have been a Volkswagen Polo and Mr Gs Range Rover
was of a higher specification. Taking all of that into account and considering the impaired
use Mr G had from the car because he would have been concerned about the noises and
problems with it, I think AFS should refund three of the eight finance instalments Mr G paid
them. When coming to that decision Ive also taken into account that Mr G paid eightmonthly instalments but only had the car for about seven and a half months.
AFS say that I should take account of the over payment Mr G received from the dealership.
The dealership clearly want that overpayment back and have explained to Mr G it was paid
in error and that they only wished to refund the £15,000 deposit. Any overpayment is
therefore a matter between Mr G and the dealership and not something I need to consider
here.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell BMW
Financial Services (GB) Limited to:
Pay Mr G 8% simple yearly interest on the £15,000 deposit he has already been
refunded. Calculate that interest from the date of payment until the date of
settlement.
Refund three monthly finance instalments in respect of the impaired use Mr G has
experienced. Add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment
to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr G £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Gs credit file in relation to
this issue.
The business responded to my provisional decision and said:
I have read your provisional decision and we are surprised to be penalised this heavily.
1. AFS do not provide courtesy cars, this is not something we have access to and as such 
this is not something that we feel should be penalised on. In any instance you have not 
asked Mr G how long he had the supposed courtesy car for? How have you come to the 
calculation of three monthly rentals to be returned?
2. You have commented on the mileage being 6,000 and that this is just under average use. 
You then go on to say he did not have use of the vehicle for 8-10 weeks, yet he still 
managed to cover 6 months of average mileage in 3-4 months, it is fair that he pays for that 
mileage.
3. Notwithstanding the second point, Mr G was given a courtesy car  regardless of value, 
he was still able to keep mobile. Yet you have instructed a refund of entire payments, rather 
than even suggesting a proportion.
4. We are disappointed with the use of the term generous  we do not make offers based on
generosity, but based on fact. In an instance like this, you have commented on his 
experience with the dealer, yet you feel we need to be more generous. The situation where 
the dealer rescinded their offer was solely due to Mr G  he was sent more money than he 
was owed, it is incredibly simple to return funds to someone. His refusal caused his own 
inconvenience, I am sure Mr G would not be happy to compensate the dealer for holding 
their funds? Yet we are expected to compensate him for something he could have easily 
resolved  that is absolutely not fair.
Mr G also responded and said:
I feel that the refund of the 3 months payments does more reflect the amount of
time that I did not have the vehicle in my possession throughout the 7 months of
owning the car.
There is one main point that I feel has still not been addressed. A final payment of£785.74 was taken by BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited on 01st March 2022.
This payment would have been the payment due for March 2022. I returned the
vehicle to the dealer on 27th February 2022. At this date the agreement should
have been terminated and no further payments taken. Therefore, I respectfully
request that the payment taken on 01st March 2022, 3 days after the vehicle had
been returned to the dealer, also be refunded in full as this payment was not due
and the agreement had ceased.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regard to AFSs first three points, I explained in my provisional decision the basis upon 
which Id come to my assessment that it would be reasonable to refund three months 
rentals. I dont think its therefore necessary to repeat that, other than to say it was based on 
the amount of time Mr G had been without his car, the impaired use whilst he had it, the 
mileage hed completed, and the fact that Mr G had paid eight monthly instalments but only 
had the car for about seven and a half months. I also took into account the fact that a 
courtesy car was provided but that the car wasnt of the same standard. I dont think on that 
basis that my calculation of impaired use was unreasonable, and Im not minded to change 
it.
Im not asking AFS to provide compensation that in my opinion is more than is necessary. 
AFS say Mr Gs refusal to return money that hes been over paid created his own 
inconvenience. I dont think thats a matter I need to comment on. As I said in my provisional 
decision:
AFS say that I should take account of the over payment Mr G received from the dealership.
The dealership clearly want that overpayment back and have explained to Mr G it was paid
in error and that they only wished to refund the £15,000 deposit. Any overpayment is
therefore a matter between Mr G and the dealership and not something I need to consider
here.
Mr G says I havent taken his overpayment into account but I did note that. I said:
I think AFS should refund three of the eight finance instalments Mr G paid
them. When coming to that decision Ive also taken into account that Mr G paid eight
monthly instalments but only had the car for about seven and a half months.
Putting things right
Ive not therefore been provided with any additional information that would lead me to 
change my provisional decision. My provisional decision therefore becomes my final 
decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
Pay Mr G 8% simple yearly interest on the £15,000 deposit he has already been
refunded. Calculate that interest from the date of payment until the date of
settlement.
Refund three monthly finance instalments in respect of the impaired use Mr G hasexperienced. Add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment
to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr G £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Gs credit file in relation to
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman