DRN-4000825
The complaint
Mr O complains about the use of his credit card from Barclays Bank UK PLC  trading as 
Barclaycard (Barclaycard).
What happened
Mr O has a credit card from Barclaycard and the limit was £4,200 and had been so since 
2017. On 15 November 2022, he asked for an increase in the limit to £10,000, but this was 
declined. Mr O wanted an increase in the limit to buy an expensive piece of jewellery, which 
wasnt possible because the limit wasnt sufficient.
Mr O called Barclaycard to ask if he could pay into the account so he could make the 
purchase but was told that wasnt possible.
Mr O complained. He said:
- He wasnt complaining about the lending decision.
- But he wasnt given the chance to appeal the decision as he shouldve been. He said 
Barclaycards final response closed that down without addressing it.
- He was told by Barclaycard - he couldnt pay into the account, and any such funds 
would be returned. But the terms and conditions dont say that, and he showed that 
he had paid in more than needed subsequently, so the advice from Barclaycard must 
be wrong.
- As a result, he couldnt collect Avios points on the purchase he wanted to make using 
his Barclaycard.
Barclaycard said they hadnt stopped Mr O from using his card. But they dont allow 
customers to go into credit  as thats not how a credit card works. Mr O shouldve been 
given the option to appeal the lending decision, but unfortunately wasnt. They apologised for 
that and paid compensation of £25. Barclaycard said any increase in a limit by more than 
£5,000 is automatically declined by their approval systems.
Mr O brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said:
- She couldnt discuss Barclaycards decision not to increase Mr Os limit. But any 
increase of more than £5,000 is automatically declined.
- Mr O shouldve been given the option to appeal the decision but wasnt. Barclaycard 
had apologised and paid compensation of £25, which was satisfactory.
- Credit cards are designed to be in a debit position, and not hold credit balances.
Mr O didnt agree and reiterated his main complaint points which were:
- That Barclaycard didnt offer an appeals process as part of their final response.
- Barclaycards terms and conditions dont say that credit balances arent allowed, or 
that credit balances will be returned. The terms and conditions should be fair and 
reasonable, and in this regard, they arent.
Mr O asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman, and so it has come to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two main aspects to Mr Os complaint:
- That he wasnt allowed to put his account into credit in order to make a large 
purchase.
- His complaint was unfairly closed without offering him an appeal of Barclaycards 
decision not to increase his credit limit.
Account not allowed to go into credit: Mr O says Barclaycards terms and conditions dont 
cover this. I reviewed these and they say:
Paying your billAs this is a credit agreement, we will never pay interest to you for any 
balance on the account and you should not keep money in your account. For this reason, 
you need to make sure that you dont pay more than your total outstanding balance (which 
would create a positive balance). If you do have a positive balance, we can return that 
balance to you, rather than leaving it in the account
So here -  Barclaycards terms do say they can return money to customers. So  I can see 
why Barclaycards call handlers said that he shouldnt put the account into credit, as it may 
be sent back to him. Mr O argues that the terms dont say that money will be returned, and 
that enables Barclaycard to do what they want - and showed he paid in more than needed 
subsequently.  Ive considered his points, but on balance, Im satisfied that the terms and 
conditions cover what Barclaycards practices are and that the call handlers gave Mr O the 
correct information.
Appeal: Barclaycards final response explained that an appeal needs to be made within 30 
days of the lending decision. I can see that Barclaycard declined the increase on 22 
November 2022, and Barclaycards final response was dated 2 January 2023  so more 
than 30 days had expired by that time. But Barclaycard did apologise that Mr O hadnt been 
given the option to appeal when he called previously, and paid compensation of £25 for that. 
Which on balance, I think was reasonable.
In summary, I consider Barclaycard handled Mr Os complaint satisfactorily, and so, while I 
understand Mr O will be disappointed by my decision, Im not asking them to do anymore 
here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman