DRN-2573905
The complaint
Ms H complains that Capquest Debt Recovery Limited is chasing her for debt she says 
she didnt apply for or benefit from.
What happened
In mid-2020, Ms H says she received a letter from Capquest chasing her for a debt it 
says shed taken out through a third-party business in 2006. Ms H contacted Capquest to 
dispute the debt as she denies applying for or benefitting from it.
Capquest looked into Ms Hs claim and contacted the third-party business where the 
debt had originated for further information. It also asked Ms H for evidence of where 
she was living at the time the account was opened; but she was unable to provide this.
Capquests investigation concluded that it was unable to uphold Ms Hs 
complaint. It highlighted the following reasons for this:
The address Ms H said she was living in at the time the account was opened 
matched the address given on the application.
The surname Ms H was using in her email address correspondence with Capquest 
matched the surname given on the application.
Despite the account showing on Ms Hs credit file since 2014, shed not disputed it 
earlier.
The address was changed on the account several times and items were delivered to 
addresses associated with Ms H.
Ms H remained unhappy with Capquests decision to hold her liable for the debt. She 
pointed out that some of the contact details associated with the account didnt match her 
own. And she denied living at some of the addresses at the time the account was 
associated with them. As she remained unhappy, Ms H contacted our service to look into 
the matter again.
An Investigator considered the evidence provided by both parties and concluded that 
Capquest had made an error. They thought Capquest had failed to evidence that Ms H 
could be associated with the account and pointed out the lack of a credit agreement 
further supported Ms Hs claim. For those reasons, they recommended that Capquest stop 
chasing Ms H for the debt and remove any reporting of it from her credit file.
Capquest disagreed. It highlighted a number of reasons why it felt itd acted fairly in 
the circumstances. Capquest reiterated the points already highlighted above but 
added:
Itd investigated the claim to the best of its ability but found no indicators of fraud.
Ms H changed her testimony regarding where she lived in 2006 at the point it asked 
her for evidence of this.
Capquest acted in good faith in purchasing the debt from the original lender and 
couldnt be held accountable for the errors caused by a third-party business.
It acknowledged that the credit agreement was no longer available and therefore the 
debt was unenforceable. But it felt it was still entitled to chase Ms H for the debt.
As Capquest disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter was passed to me 
for a decision to be made.
On the 16 December 2021 I issued provisional findings to both parties outlining that I was 
minded to not uphold the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
Prior to issuing my findings, I think it important to acknowledge some of the difficulties in 
this complaint which I will consider with each point.
The original debt was taken out in 2006; which is over 15 years ago. This presents a 
number of issues when weighing up evidence as most documentary evidence is no longer 
available, and recollections can be stretched when it comes to accuracy. As such, Ill be 
considering the evidence that is available and deciding what I think is more likely based 
on the balance of probabilities.
It isnt in dispute that Ms H lived at the address placed on the application form when the 
credit was applied for in 2006. This means that whoever made the application for credit 
knew Ms Hs personal information and was confident enough to make it with the 
knowledge that correspondence would be sent to her legitimate address. This isnt typical 
when dealing with complaints involving the theft of someones identity as a fraudster 
wouldnt naturally want to alert their victim to the fact that theyd applied for financial 
products in their name. Having said that, due to the passage of time Im unable to say with 
confidence that any post was sent to Ms Hs home address.
As well as the account opening address being accurate, Ms H originally informed 
Capquest when discussing her claim that she lived at another address when the account 
was opened. As Ive highlighted above, due to passage of time I havent added too much 
weight to this. But the address Ms H originally provided is one of the addresses the 
account was changed to during the time it was opened. And it was also one of the 
addresses where goods were delivered to that were purchased using the credit.
Ms H says that the dates on the account which show when she was living at the address 
arent in line with when she did in fact live there. But she hasnt been able to evidence the 
dates of where she lived at any given time during the accounts history to support this. I 
think this adds further weight to Capquests argument that the account seemed to fall in 
line with Ms Hs address history and where goods associated with the account were sent.
In addition to the above I find some of the characteristics of the account management to 
be unusual; had a third-party been responsible for the opening and use of the account.
Between the account opening in 2006 and the date of the last purchase, the person in
control of the account changed Ms Hs name from the original name set up on the account 
to another surname legitimately used by Ms H. Theyd also made payment toward the 
debt and waited until 2010 to purchase a number of items using the credit. This is 
behaviour not conducive to what Id expect to see in cases of fraud. Typically, a fraudster 
wouldnt change the name on an account if it made no difference in utilising the credit. I 
also wouldnt have expected them to make payment toward the debt or wait 4 years to 
spend the credit available.
Experienced fraudsters, or even opportunists, tend to set up accounts fraudulently and 
spend on them quickly to avoid detection and risk closure of the account. And I find it unlikely that if theyd got away with setting up and using the account, that theyd wait 4 
years to use it and then pay off some of the balance spent. This is contradictory to the 
purpose of deliberately using a third-partys information to obtain credit without their 
permission.
I also find it unlikely that Ms H took so long to realise that the debt existed, and that 
adverse information had been reported on her credit file. This would have meant that 
Ms H never received any of the correspondence sent to any of the addresses legitimately 
associated with her regarding the account or for repayment of the debt. It also means that 
Ms H wouldnt have checked her credit file or likely have applied for any financial 
products which would have alerted her to its existence considering the adverse 
information.
In conclusion, the collective facts Ive highlighted above persuade me that its more likely 
than not that Ms H applied for and used the credit; or provided permission for a third-party 
to do so on her behalf.
Capquest has already acknowledged that a credit agreement can no longer be produced for 
the debt and that it deems it to be legally unenforceable. But I agree that it still has the right 
to ask Ms H to repay the debt.
Both parties were given until 5 January 2022 to provide any further comments or evidence 
prior to issuing a final decision.
Capquest had nothing further to add. But Ms H submitted a number of documents supporting 
the dates she resided at a number of addresses. She also submitted documentation 
supporting a change of name, and the date this was carried out. She continued to defend 
that shed not applied for, nor benefitted from, the debt being pursued.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H has now provided a number of documents to evidence her place of residence at 
various dates throughout the time the account was active. 
Having compared the dates and addresses in that documentation with those held on the 
account, it would appear they broadly coincide with each other. I find that this goes further in 
supporting the findings highlighted in my provisional decision above.
Furthermore, Ms H has provided a number of birth certificates in support of her testimony. 
Having reviewed the date of these birth certificates, they also appear to broadly coincide with 
orders placed on the account for maternity and babywear.
For these reasonsand those highlighted in my provisional findingsI remain persuaded 
that Ms H was more likely than not responsible for the debt for which shes being pursued. I 
therefore wont be directing Capquest to do anything further.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman