DRN-4083036
The complaint
Miss H complained that she was given unsuitable advice to transfer her deferred defined 
benefit (DB) Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS), to a type of personal pension.
Grove Pension Solutions Limited is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to Grove.
What happened
In 2020, Miss H asked Grove to advise her on potentially transferring her DB pension. 
Information gathered about Miss Hs circumstances was broadly as follows:
Miss H was a deferred member of the DB scheme. The cash equivalent transfer 
value (CETV) of the pension was around £82,106 and the normal retirement age 
(NRA) was 60.
Miss H was 55 years old, single and with no-one financially dependent on her.
Miss H wasnt working and was evidently managing on state benefits totaling around 
£650 per month. Miss H was currently in debt. It was recorded on the fact-find that 
this totaled between £23,000 and £26,000 (different values were recorded in different 
documents). 
She had no demonstrable savings, investments or assets and lived in rented 
accommodation. 
Grove set out its advice in a suitability letter in November 2020. It advised Miss H to transfer 
out of her DB scheme and take a tax-free lump sum of 25% from her pension. It said she 
should invest the remainder in a type of personal pension arrangement. Miss H accepted 
this advice and so transferred from her DB scheme to a personal pension shortly after. 
Miss H has complained to Grove about its advice, saying she shouldnt have been advised 
to transfer out of her DB scheme. In response, Grove said it hadnt done anything wrong and 
was acting on the financial objectives Miss H had at the time. 
Miss H then referred her case to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said it should be upheld. As Grove hasnt agreed and the complaint couldnt 
be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Groves actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Grove should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Miss Hs best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the DB 
scheme to a personal pension arrangement was in Miss Hs best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding her complaint.
Financial viability 
Grove referred in its transfer recommendation to a critical yield rate. The critical yield is 
essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the transfer 
value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits as the 
DB scheme. The critical yield is part of a range of different things which help show how likely 
it is that a transferred personal pension fund could achieve the necessary investment growth 
for a transfer-out to become financially viable. 
Grove said that the critical yield required to match the benefits of the DB scheme she was in 
at the time, at her NRA of 60, was 10.5%.  The advice was given after the regulator gave 
instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount 
rates' in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being 
upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman 
Service on our website. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when 
giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates 
would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given was only 3% per year, for 4 
years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained 
unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.I've taken all these things into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount 
rate, Miss Hs cautious attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. Given the critical 
yield was high, 10.5%, I think Miss H was highly likely to receive benefits of a substantially 
lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that 
attitude to risk. 
Grove provided a cashflow example which said if she transferred the pension now and it 
grew by just 2.2% per year after inflation then Miss H could be better off. But this was 
misleading. It wasnt comparing like with like and Miss H would be losing a number of 
guarantees and benefits in the process. Miss Hs DB pension was guaranteed for life and as 
Grove will know, past performance does not mean future performance will be the same. So, I 
consider the discount rates and the regulators lower standard projections to be much more 
realistic in this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, 
particularly over such a long period of time.
Ive also noted that if Miss H was to buy a pension on the open market at the time, which 
had similar benefits and guarantees as her DB scheme, the cost would be £122,000. This 
was substantially more than the CETV and so, in my view, it provides a revealing window 
into the value of what Miss H was being advised to give up by transferring away.
To summarise this issue then, all the signs which Ive seen here were indicating very clearly 
that Miss H would likely receive lower pension benefits overall as a consequence of 
transferring away from the DB scheme. And there would be little point in Miss H giving up 
the guarantees and benefits available to her through her existing DB scheme only to achieve 
a lower level of benefits in a personal pension in the long term. 
Of course, according to Grove, its recommendation that she should transfer out to a 
personal pension was not based on the financial comparisons with her current scheme 
alone. Rather, Grove said Miss H had different reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought 
about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for her, 
despite providing the overall lower benefits Ive mentioned. 
Ive considered these below.
Other reasons given for the transfer advice
Groves main rationale for recommending the transfer was that Miss H needed the money 
there and then because of the financial difficulties she was facing. It also said that Miss H 
wanted the flexibility to take further lumps sums in the future. Ive considered these issues in 
turn.
Debt
Quite rightly, our investigator pointed out that even though Miss H undoubtedly had some 
financial challenges at that time, irrevocably transferring her DB pension to a personal plan 
wasnt the only answer. Its clear, for example, that whilst Miss H was indeed in debt to the 
approximate sum of £23,000 (£26,000 is mentioned elsewhere), all the evidence is that 
these were being managed under a type of debt management plan. Miss H was paying £350 
per month towards this and although Im sure she found this somewhat restrictive and her 
desire was to be free of debt, she of course needed to have some sort of plan for her future 
years.
There are also a lot of anomalies in Groves recommendation, which was for Miss H to take 
a 25% tax-free lump sum from the pension and invest the rest.For the first element, the tax-free lump-sum amounted to £20,526. This was still short of the 
amounts she owed. If one uses the £26,000 figure which is set out in a form submission 97 
and dated 21 September 2020 then Miss H would be using her whole pension tax-free 
allowance and still be falling significantly short of the debt she owed. Even the lower figure 
would leave over £2,400 in credit card debt  and for someone not in work and on state 
benefits  this represented quite a sum. In my view, its also possible that the credit card 
companies may have then taken a different view to recovering the debts which might have 
meant Miss Hs debt management plan would need to be reconsidered.
In short, I think it was obvious that this was a very short-term outlook. Not only was she 
giving up a quarter of her only pension (other than the eventual state pension), there was no 
assurance that part-paying the debts in this way was the right thing for Miss H at that time. 
Theres no suggestion that her creditors were closing in on Miss H, in fact the reverse was 
true as she seems to have reached an amicable repayment plan.
Grove also seemed to take no real account of what Miss Hs retirement might look like from 
a financial point of view. Shes intimated she could eventually live on the state pension but 
we dont really know how much this might have been in her case. I say this because much of 
Miss Hs history did seem to comprise of self-employment, so achieving the full state 
pension might not have been certain.
Groves acceptance of certain uses for the remainder of the pension also seems somewhat 
ill considered. I say this because Miss H intimated she would like to buy a property overseas 
with what was left. However, with only around £61,000 left this lacks credibility. This element 
would have been subject to tax and national insurance. And that Grove said she also wanted 
to use the same money to invest in further business ventures, stretches credibility even 
further. 
The reality here was this was a very modest pension and Groves poor assessment of what 
the money was to be used for shows, in my view, that the adviser wasnt dealing with Miss H 
in a comprehensive way. By withdrawing further lump sums, Miss H would be facing a tax 
liability but also placing her state benefits at risk. The adviser mentions this only fleetingly 
before moving on to other matters.
So, all this means I dont think advising Miss H to leave her DB scheme was suitable. The 
principal rationale seems to have been to leave her debt free. Not only did the transfer not 
fully achieve this, but I also believe it could have caused as many problems as it solved for 
Miss H. And ultimately, leaving her DB scheme left Miss H facing an uncertain financial 
future.
Flexibility
Ive mentioned above the many uses the adviser seems to have accepted for a relatively 
small pot of money. The adviser thought flexibility was an objective for Miss H but this was 
poorly defined and if he was accepting any possibility that Miss H would just spend 
everything, then her having nothing left to retire on would seem to be an area he ought to 
have further explored.
Indeed, Miss H already had some limited flexibility to retire early from her current scheme. 
But the adviser said the resultant tax-free lump-sum of around £10,800 wasnt enough to 
address all her debts. But of course, we know his recommendation to leave the scheme and 
take a tax-free sum of £20,526 wasnt enough to address all her debts either.I think the evidence is also persuasive that Miss H had neither the desire nor the capacity to 
manage these funds going forward. Everything Ive seen shows shed suffered a traumatic 
personal and abusive relationship. She was also left in a very challenging financial situation. 
She had no savings, no property, no other assets and no investment experience. So I think 
shed have had difficulties in managing the scale and complexity  even of this relatively 
modest fund  given what shed been put through. Looked at through the lens of that time, I 
therefore think it was obvious that Miss H would either need help in managing the funds, or 
that she would access and spend them. We now know the latter happened.
Other issues
Ive also considered the other benefits Miss H had with her DB scheme, with death benefits 
being the main one. This wasnt a key theme in the advice Grove gave to Miss H as she 
wasnt currently married and had no-one financially dependent on her, so the death related 
pension benefits associated with her existing scheme were of less use.  In addition to 
spousal benefits, there were likely wider child-related benefits whilst children remained within 
full-time education. For many consumers, these things are of great reassurance, and 
therefore great value, in a pension. I accept Miss H didnt need them. 
If Miss H transferred away, then any value in her new personal pension plan could be 
passed on, most likely tax-free, to a nominee. This may have sounded good, and Miss H did 
indeed nominate someone. But this needed careful explanation because whilst the entire 
value of a pension in a personal scheme could be passed on upon death, the whole point of 
a pension is to pay for ones ongoing retirement. Therefore, if Miss H had lived a long life, its 
highly likely there would be very little left in the personal pension fund to pass on. The 
amount in a personal scheme was also at risk to market volatility and it wasnt index linked. 
Similarly, if her intention was to spend the money, there would be nothing left to pass on to 
anyone.
So, although Grove implied that the death benefits were discussed at the time and the 
personal pension arrangement might better enable the retention of the value of the funds if 
Miss H died, this isnt strictly the full picture. In my view, Grove should have strongly 
discouraged Miss H from prioritising the potential for higher death benefits through a 
personal pension over her security in retirement.
Overall in this case, I dont think different death benefits on their own justified transferring 
from the DB scheme. 
Ive noted Miss H also told the adviser that her father had passed away at 65 and lost 
pension benefits with him. She didnt want this to happen in her situation. But again, the 
adviser should have discouraged this. Miss H had what appears to be mixed health, but 
there was certainly no indication then of her not reaching close to her life-expectancy, which 
was in her 80s.
Use and suitability of investments
Grove makes the point now that by accessing and spending the full pension amount, this 
shows that Miss H really did have an urgent and genuine need to access these funds. Ive 
considered this. However, the wider aspect of accessing everything never formed part of 
Groves original recommendation. And if this was known to the adviser at the time, Id have 
expected a very full picture to emerge about what his thoughts and recommendations about 
this were.In reality, the only reason Miss H was able to access the money and do what she did with it, 
was simply because of Groves unsuitable advice. In my view, the much more suitable option 
was for Miss H to continue with her debt management plan and to eventually access the 
pension in the way it was originally designed. Put another way, if Grove hadnt 
recommended that she transfer away and therefore get immediate access to her pension 
funds, then she obviously couldnt have ever spent the money. It would still be contained 
within her DB scheme.
Warnings given to Miss H
Grove asks me to consider the warnings Miss H was given about transferring. It says she 
was told about the guarantees and benefits shed be giving up. But to be clear, even though 
I accept Miss H was given a certain amount of information, Grove still recommended that 
she should transfer out. 
Grove was also being paid a significant amount of money for this advice. As a regulated 
adviser, Miss H had every right to expect that shed be guided about what was in her best 
interests. 
Summary
I dont doubt that paying off some of her debts and also having more flexibility and control 
within a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Miss H. But Grove 
wasnt there to just transact what Miss H might have thought she wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Miss H needed and recommend what was in her best 
interests.
I dont think the advice given to Miss H was suitable. She was giving up a guaranteed, risk-
free and increasing income. By transferring, Miss H was very likely to obtain lower retirement 
benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer 
and outweigh this.  Miss H shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the scheme just to 
repay debts that were affordable and already managed in an existing repayment plan.
So, I think Grove should have advised Miss H to remain in her DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Miss H would have gone ahead anyway, against 
Grove's advice. However, Im not persuaded that Miss H would have insisted on transferring 
out of the DB scheme, against Groves advice. I say this because Miss H was an 
inexperienced investor with a cautious attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the 
vast majority of Miss Hs retirement provision. So, if Grove had provided her with clear 
advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her best 
interests, I think she would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Grove should compensate Miss H for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Grove to put Miss H, as far as possible, into the 
position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Miss H would have 
most likely remained in the DB scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Grove must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be 
undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification 
of Miss Hs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Grove should:
always calculate and offer Miss H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Miss H before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Miss H receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Miss H accepts Groves offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Miss H for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of their redress 
augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Miss Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Miss H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, 
in line with DISP App 4, Grove may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments 
to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Miss Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and I direct Grove Pension 
Solutions Limited to pay Miss H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up 
to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Grove Pension Solutions Limited pays Miss H the balance.
If Miss H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Grove Pension 
Solutions Limited.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Miss H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Miss H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman