DRN-2969085
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS), following the return of his car.
What happened
On 29 March 2019, Mr T was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with MBFS. The agreement was for 24 months, with monthly payments of £329.00.
When the agreement came to an end, Mr T arranged to return the car. The car was collected 
on 29 March 2021, and the collection agent inspected the car for damage. Mr T has said that 
the agent told him there were no problems with the car, but he wasnt provided with a copy 
of any report.
Mr T was then invoiced for damage to the car and for excess mileage. Mr T said he never 
received the initial invoices sent by MBFS. And, when MBFS contacted him about the unpaid 
invoice, Mr T said MBFS told him the excess mileage charge had been applied incorrectly 
and that he didnt need to pay this.
Mr T wasnt happy, and he complained to MBFS. He believed that the damage to the car 
happened after it was collected, and he didnt agree that hed exceeded the agreed mileage 
on the car. MBFS said there was damage to the car that fell outside of their Vehicle Return 
Standards (VRS). And they thought they were right to charge him for this. They also said 
that, while theyd originally charged Mr T for 744 excess miles, this had been incorrectly 
recorded and the correct figure was 701 excess miles. And MBFS thought they were right to 
charge for this.
Mr T was unhappy with MBFSs response, and he brought his complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator said that, from the images Mr T had provided, and from the report done by 
the collection agent, he was satisfied there was damage to the car. And he said MBFS were 
reasonable in charging him for this. He also said the car had been driven for 701 miles more 
than the agreed mileage. And the agreement Mr T had signed with MBFS allowed them to 
charge for this. So he didnt think MBFS had done anything wrong.
Mr T didnt agree with the investigator. He said that MBFS didnt invoice him within the 
legally required time and he said the excess mileage occurred after the car had been 
collected, not before. And he asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr T was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the hire purchase agreement, which Mr T signed on 29 March 2019. The 
agreement confirms the mileage on the car at the start of the agreement was 15,261 miles, 
and that Mr T was permitted to drive 10,000 miles a year (20,000 miles over the full term of 
the agreement). The agreement also said that any mileage over the permitted amount would 
be charged at 15p plus VAT per mile.
Under the heading Vehicle Return Standards, the agreement goes on to explain what is, 
and isnt, considered acceptable under the VRS. 
MBFS also provide customers with another copy of their VRS, six months before the end of 
any agreement. So, Im satisfied Mr T shouldve been reasonably aware of what level of 
damage was and wasnt acceptable to MBFS when the car was returned. And from the 
original agreement, he should also have been reasonably aware how many miles he was 
permitted to travel, and how much hed be charged for any excess mileage.
Ive seen the report from the inspection that took place on 29 March 2021. This report says 
there were scratches to two body panels, and rim damage to one wheel, that fell outside of 
the VRS. And the cost for this would be £490. The supporting video and photographs taken 
by the collection agent clearly show the damage thats being charged for. The report also 
records the collection mileage as 35,962 miles  20,701 miles more that when the car was 
supplied to Mr T, and 701 miles more that the mileage permitted in the agreement.
The report states that customer not present at the time of the inspection. Ive seen MBFS 
complaint response letter, dated 4 May 2021, which refers to a conversation Mr T had with 
MBFS on 26 April 2021. MBFS say that, in this call, Mr T firstly says he wasnt present when 
the inspection was done, and then he says he was. But I dont think whether Mr T was or 
wasnt present has any relevance  the report clearly shows the damage and excess 
mileage Mr T is being charged for. So Im satisfied that this was present when the car was 
collected.
Whats more, the photographs Mr T took of the car on 28 March 2021, the day before 
collection, also show the damage to the wheel MBFS are charging him for. 
Ive seen MBFS sent Mr T three separate invoices, for three different amounts. The invoice 
sent on 2 April 2021 was for £616.18 for the scratches to the bodywork, damage to the 
wheel, and for 701 excess miles. This invoice was cancelled on 13 April 2021, and a credit 
note issued.
The second invoice was sent on 14 April 2021 and was for £612.92 for scratches to the 
bodywork, damage to the wheel and 744 excess miles. This invoice was cancelled on 30 
April 2021 and a credit note issued. The final invoice was sent on 1 May 2021 for £236.18 
for the damage to the wheel and 701 excess miles. Its my understanding that this invoice 
remains unpaid.I can understand how receiving three different invoices for three different amounts could be 
confusing. But Mr T has said that he didnt receive the first two invoices, and the first time he 
knew he owed anything to MBFS was when he spoke to them on 26 April 2021. On this call, 
he challenged the charges and, as a result, MBFS removed the charges for the scratches to 
the body panels and corrected the excess mileage charges. They reissued the invoice for 
the correct amount on 1 May 2021, less than five weeks after the car was collected, and less 
than a week after his call  I dont think this is either unreasonable or unlawful. The invoice 
was for damage and excess charges supported by both Mr Ts photographs and the report 
completed when the car was collected.
So, while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr T, I think that MBFS acted 
reasonably by charging for the damage to the car and for the excess mileage, and I wont be 
asking them to amend their invoice.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman