DRN-2735110
The complaint
Mr M says Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr M took out two loans from ELL as summarised below.
loan taken out value, £terms in 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, £total 
repayable, £
1 23/03/2017 4500 24 313.95 7534.80
2 16/01/2018 5000 36 300.67 9020.10
He says the lender failed to carry out effective affordability checks. 
The investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. She said the lender did not make fair lending 
decisions based on the information it had gathered.
ELL agreed with this for loan 1 accepting that it had evidence Mr M was struggling to 
manage his finances. But it argued Mr M had sufficient disposable income to afford loan 2, 
and he was borrowing to consolidate some of his debt. It adds that as Mr M settled this loan 
early without taking on additional debt this suggests it achieved its purpose. 
As agreement wasnt reached with regards loan 2 the complaint was passed to me to make 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including the
key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set out on our website. And Ive followed
it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when ELL lent to Mr M. Its
rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged Likely
Loans to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, ELL was required to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mr M could afford to repay what he
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr M. In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mr M. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr Ms loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans
in a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did ELL make fair lending decisions?
- did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
As theres is no longer any dispute that ELL was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr M my decision 
will focus on loan 2, commenting only on loan 1 where it is relevant to the approval of the 
second loan.
I can see ELL asked for some information from Mr M before it approved loan 2. It asked 
about his income, his housing costs and number of dependants. It made an assumption 
about his living costs based on national statistics. It asked for copies of recent bank 
statements and carried out a credit check to understand Mr Ms credit commitments and 
credit history. It understood the purpose of the loan was to repay two payday loans and to 
refinance loan 1. From these checks combined it concluded Mr M had sufficient disposable 
income to make loan 2 affordable.
Like our investigator however, I dont think ELL made a fair lending decision based on the 
information it gathered. I think there was sufficient evidence to concern ELL that there was a 
high risk Mr M would be unable to sustainably repay loan 2. Ill explain why. 
As ELL set out in its final response letter, it knew Mr M had taken out loan 1 to repay payday 
loans, a credit card balance of £1479.51 and to clear his overdraft of £1347.00. 
He applied for loan 2 less than 10 months later. This time ELL understood it was to repay 
two recent payday loans and to refinance loan 1. But it was clear that the earlier debt 
consolidation with loan 1 had not succeeded in helping Mr M stabilise his finances and get 
out from under the debt he was carrying. I think it was clear he was having problems 
managing his money. At the time of loan 2 Mr Ms overdraft had increased to £1493 and his credit card balance 
was £1479.51. Loan 2 would not allow him to settle all of his high-cost debt or to clear, or 
even reduce, his overdraft. So I think ELL ought to have realised it was likely Mr M would 
need to borrow again to make his repayments, thus extending his cycle of debt. ELLs 
contact notes show it knew the highest value payday loan Mr M wanted to clear had been 
taken out a few weeks previously to allow him to repay another such loan. 
So I think it was clear to ELL that Mr M was having difficulties managing his money and loan 
2 would most likely not resolve this. And this is what ELL need to consider to meet its 
obligations under CONC 5.3.1(G). This sets out that a lender must check that an applicant 
can afford the loan without borrowing to repay or suffering other adverse financial 
consequences.
ELL argues as Mr M settled this loan early without taking on additional debt this suggests it 
achieved its purpose. But I cant see the evidence it has based this statement on. Whilst it 
can show he may not have returned to ELL this comment doesnt consider his borrowing or 
financial situation in the round.
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give loan 2 to Mr M, in addition to loan 1.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr M to repay the capital amounts that he borrowed as he had the
benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on loans that shouldnt have
been given to him. So he has lost out and ELL will need to put things right.
It should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr M received as a result of having been given 
loans 1 and 2. Deduct the sum of all the repayments he made from this amount.
If this results in Mr M having made overpayments then these should be paid back to
Mr M with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement.
If there is still an outstanding capital balance owing then ELL should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr M.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Mr M a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ms complaint.  Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) 
must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman