DRN-1476895
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy that the excess of £3,000 that applied to all sections of her car insurance 
policy wasnt explained to her by her broker, One Call Insurance Services Limited, when it 
sold her the policy. She subsequently had an accident and has been asked by her insurer to 
pay for its claim outlay.
What happened
Miss K was directed to One Call after searching for car insurance on a price comparison 
website. Shed recently passed her test and bought her first car. When speaking with One 
Calls agent, she told him this was her first policy and that she wasnt familiar with car 
insurance. She also said that English wasnt her first language. 
The agent started the call by running through the information that he was required to provide 
quite quickly. So, Miss K asked him to tell her about it more slowly. It was clear from the 
conversation that Miss K didnt understand most of the terminology that the agent was using. 
And she asked him on numerous occasions to explain things. 
When discussing the cost of the policy, Miss K was confused as to whether the initial finance 
deposit that the agent asked her about was the voluntary excess shed seen on the online 
quote. He said it wasnt. And he then went on to tell Miss K that the compulsory policy 
excess was £3,000 for each of the covers available. At this point Miss K again asked the 
agent to slow down and he repeated the covers to which the policy excess applied. But he 
didnt give any explanation as to what an excess was or in what circumstances it would 
apply.
The price of the insurance was just over £2,400 and the finance agreement had a 28.8% 
APR (annual percentage rate). So, in total, the insurance was expected to cost almost 
£2,800 over the year. Miss K had explained to the agent that she needed to ensure she 
could budget for this. And there had been significant discussion already about the cost and 
keeping it as low as possible so she could afford to pay it monthly.
Miss K took out the policy and subsequently had an accident. She was asked by the insurer 
to pay almost £2,000 to cover the entire claim that it paid out to a third party.
This service has considered a separate complaint against the insurer about that claim, as 
Miss K thought that it was over-inflated. But our investigator didnt think that the insurer had 
done anything wrong in making the charge, although she did ask it to reduce the sum 
claimed to remove some fees and investigation costs. She said that Miss K would be 
required to pay this, subject to the outcome of this complaint against the broker.
Miss K has told us that she would never have taken out this policy if shed understood that 
she may be required to pay the first £3,000 of any claim. She says that she wouldnt have 
been able to afford that. And in effect she was being asked to pay over £5,000 for the policy 
before shed have any cover. 
One Call accepted in its final response that its agent could have explained the excess better. 
And it paid Miss K £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her. But it thought that 
the provisions of the insurance documentation clearly explained the excess. And that this 
was sufficient notice to Miss K of her obligations. 
Our investigator thought that Miss Ks complaint should be upheld. She said that the policy 
had been mis-sold to Miss K by One Call as it should have explained the excess in 
significantly more detail. So, she thought that One Call should pay the excess demanded by 
the insurer on Miss Ks behalf
One Call didnt agree. So, the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that this complaint should be upheld, and that Miss K should be 
compensated for her financial loss. Ill explain why.
Having listened to the initial sales call, its very clear that Miss K has no prior knowledge of 
car insurance. English is also her second language and the agent acknowledged this. The 
policy that One Call was quoting for is a very high excess policy. Unlike a lot of insurance 
policies, the excess was applicable to every section of the policy. And so even applied when 
the customer wasnt claiming for damage to her own car.
Miss K wasnt at all clear on what any of the terminology being discussed meant. And on 
many occasions asked the agent to explain it. That included her not knowing what 
comprehensive cover was, or what a car being written-off meant. Shes since told us that 
she thought the excess meant that the maximum that she would be paid under the policy for 
her car was £3,000, which she considered to be more than enough, as it wasnt worth 
anything like that. 
As her broker, in order to treat Miss K fairly and reasonably, and particularly given her clear 
lack of knowledge of insurance, One Call owed Miss K a duty to carefully explain to her the 
terms of the policy she was looking to purchase. In particular, it should have explained any 
unusual terms, such as the very significant excess and the way it would apply to a third party 
claim, even if she didnt claim for the damage to her own car.
When the agent came to discuss the excess, he started by running through, very quickly, 
what it applied to (theft, accidental damage, etc) and Miss K had to ask him to slow down 
and repeat it. She went on to say afterwards that what she wanted was a policy that would 
pay out her costs if she had an accident. That was clearly an opportunity for the agent to 
make it clear what the excess would mean for her here, particularly as her car wasnt worth 
as much as the excess. But he didnt. One Call accepts that at this point the agent should 
have explained that the excess applied to all sections. But it thinks that as the 
documentation was clear, that was enough.
The agent said that hed send the policy documents by email to Miss K, although that 
doesnt appear to have happened. Instead, the policy documents were available for Miss K 
to view on an online portal. One Calls records show that a welcome letter was sent out. But 
Ive not been given any information about what may have been included in that letter, other 
than notice that the documents could be viewed through the online portal. And that Miss K 
would have been told that it was important for her to check them. But Miss K didnt look at 
the documentation until after she had the accident.Clearly a customer should look at the documentation that theyre provided with. Particularly 
to check any statement of facts on which the insurance is based. But as these were on an 
online portal, and not included with the welcome letter, thats a step that its not uncommon 
for customers to fail to take. So, I think its all the more important that when a policy is sold, 
particularly when theres an opportunity to speak to the customer over the phone, that any 
significant and unusual terms are called out. At the very least Id expect a copy of a Key 
Facts document to be sent to a customer detailing any significant and unusual terms, such 
as this £3,000 excess. That could easily have been sent with the welcome letter, but Ive not 
been told that it was.
Ive looked at what information would have been available to Miss K had she looked at the 
documentation. The full policy wording is clear about how the excess applies, although the 
extract Ive seen from the Key Facts document doesnt give a sufficient explanation about 
how the excess may apply even if the customer is not to make a claim for any damage to 
their own car. Given that an all section policy excess of this size is a significant and unusual 
term, I would have expected this to be called out to the customer in detail in that document. 
And in Miss Ks circumstances, given that One Call knew how little she knew about 
insurance and its terminology, it should have taken the opportunity to explain this on the 
initial call.
One Call has since said to us that had Miss K reviewed the documents and decided to 
cancel within the 14-day period allowed, then it could have tried to find her a policy with a 
lower excess. Her demands and needs clearly required an affordable policy that she could 
budget for. And an unexpected £3,000 bill was clearly going to cause Miss K a problem.
So, I think that in order to have treated Miss K fairly and reasonably, One Call should have 
advised Miss K more clearly about this excess. And if shed been concerned about that, 
which she likely would have been, then it could have looked at alternative excess policies 
upfront, rather than waiting for her to read the documentation and then look to cancel.
Miss K had also asked the agent whether the cost of this car insurance (£230 a month) was 
usual, given she had no experience of this. She was told by the agent that it was, and that 
One Call couldnt provide this policy any cheaper for her. Again, this highlighted that cost 
was a concern for Miss K and this should have prompted the agent to realise how important 
the detail of the £3,000 excess was.
So, Ive found that by not telling Miss K about the £3,000 all sections excess in more detail, 
the policy was mis-sold to her by One Call. If she had known that this sum would be payable 
in the event of any claim, I find that she wouldnt have taken out this policy and would have 
looked for an alternative.
  
Putting things right
Miss K has lost out as a result of One Calls actions and is now liable to the insurer to pay 
the claim cost of almost £2,000. Whilst I accept that any policy that she may have taken out 
would likely have had an excess, its now not possible to know how much that would have 
been.
Miss K has clearly suffered some significant distress and inconvenience as a result of One 
Calls actions. It has paid her £150 compensation for that. I agree with our investigator that, 
in normal circumstances, that would be a sufficient amount, although here this has now been 
going on for almost 3 years. And I can appreciate why Miss K has been so worried about it.So, whilst I might usually have made an allowance in the redress for the excess that Miss K 
may have had to pay on any other insurance that she had taken out  which could have 
been anything from say £200 upwards  here I feel that the additional trouble and upset that 
Miss K has experienced warrants my not doing that. So, I agree with our investigator that it 
would be fair and reasonable compensation for One Call to pay the full amount of the claim 
directly to the insurer up to the value of the excess payable by Miss K under her policy.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require that One Call Insurance Services 
Limited make arrangements with the policy insurers and administrator to pay them the 
amount of the claim that Miss K would otherwise have had to pay under the all sections 
excess provisions of her policy.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman