DRN-4194525
The complaint
Mr W complains that NewDay Ltd trading as John Lewis Partnership Card (JLPC) declined 
two applications for a new credit card due to an error on their systems and they did not 
handle his complaint effectively.
What happened
Mr W says he received an email invitation to apply for a new NewDay credit card as all 
existing cards would cease working in the following month, and he used the link provided to 
apply for a new card. His application was declined despite Mr W saying he clearly met all of 
the requirements. Mr W contacted the helpline and a call handler reset the link. The call 
handler confirmed to Mr W that the information he had provided shouldve met the 
requirements for the replacement card. Mr W applied again, but the application was declined 
again. Mr W made a complaint to NewDay.
NewDay initially said they were not able to verify sufficient information about Mr W to accept 
his application. They said they may be able to change their decision and provide him with a 
new card if he could provide them with some further details to allow them to confirm his 
income and accommodation costs. They gave Mr W instructions as to how they could re-
assess his application. Mr W says he provided them the information which he had previously 
input into the system, and sent them his bank statements, but this time his application was 
manually accepted, therefore he said their system was at fault for not originally accepting his 
application and causing him inconvenience and aggravation. Mr W wrote to NewDay asking 
them to reconsider that their systems were not at fault.
NewDay upheld Mr Ws complaint and gave him £25 compensation for delays in processing 
his manual application, and they closed his complaint. Mr W wrote back to NewDay as they 
did not address the points he raised. While the complaint handler did not write back to Mr W 
in the timeframe he asked them to, he received an email from a colleague informing Mr W 
that they had made changes to their processes and it was now likely his application would 
be accepted, and she invited him to reapply and she sent him the link to facilitate this, which 
only confirmed his view that NewDays systems needed addressing. Mr W wrote back to 
NewDay, but he received no response. Mr W brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ws complaint. He said while the additional information 
provided may have been minimal, any additional information is important to NewDay as it 
allowed them to approve the application. He said it is common for businesses to be able to 
accept an application upon further information and evidence being provided.
Mr W asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said he had a lack of response from NewDay and there was no indication that 
they had given their final response and he questioned if NewDay could close his complaint 
without his agreement. He said NewDays automated system made incorrect judgements 
compared to a manual review. And in support of this NewDay confirmed they had made 
changes to their systems since his application was rejected, which, if made earlier, would 
have likely produced an automated acceptance. 
Mr W asked why his online application failed and what was unacceptable with the 
information submitted. Mr W said NewDay have mentioned there was a widening of criteria 
parameters, but he didnt require this as when his application was handled manually it was 
successful, so if changes were needed to bring their system into line with their manual 
process, this would suggest at the time of his declined applications that there was an issue 
with their online system. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Ws complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Id like to explain to Mr W that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their application process including telling them when they should decline an application or 
when they should process a manual application. It would be the role of the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct NewDay to make changes to 
their policies and procedures (including the systems they use), if necessary. 
I must explain to Mr W that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as 
such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how NewDay have investigated his 
complaint, such as the contents of the response and when they decide to close a complaint 
down does not come under my powers to consider. I can confirm to him though that they 
dont need his agreement to close a complaint. Mr W was given instructions on the final 
response letter if he was unhappy with their decision he could refer it to our service, and this 
told him he needed to do this within six months of the date of their first response to him. As 
NewDay had already given Mr W referral rights to our service they would have no obligation 
to keep responding to complaints they considered closed.
Although this will disappoint Mr W, NewDay are not obliged to tell a customer, our service, or 
even all of their staff the reason(s) why his original applications declined. This is because 
their decision process is commercially sensitive, and people could try and circumvent their 
systems to increase their chances of an application being successful if they made their 
criteria public knowledge. 
I agree with Mr W that the widening of NewDays criteria parameters would not be the 
reason why his manual application was accepted and the original applications were 
declined. Its likely this was offered as a potential reason for his manual application being 
successful on the basis the staff couldnt answer the question, but they were aware that 
NewDay had widened their criteria parameters, which would not be necessarily commercially 
sensitive (as some of the criteria was contained in emails Mr W received prior to his 
successful application from NewDay).
As a responsible lender, NewDay are required to perform checks to ensure that they are 
responsibly lending. These checks need to be proportionate and show that the credit would 
be affordable and sustainable for Mr W. Ive noted the strength of feeling that he has about 
the system being at fault. But Im not persuaded that because the system originally declined 
his application and it was manually accepted with the same information, that an error has 
been made here. And Ill explain why.The information that Mr W provided as part of his original application which declined, may 
have meant that NewDays systems could not complete proportionate checks on the 
information that he gave them, so the application declined. But the manual process is 
different. I say this because the manual process can verify documents Mr W sent them, 
which a system would not be able to see information from Mr Ws bank statements. In the 
response NewDay sent Mr W dated 13 October 2022 NewDay allude to this, as they 
confirmed on this occasion we were not able to verify sufficient information about you to 
accept your application. So Im satisfied that the key word here is verify.
Im not persuaded that because the system couldnt verify Mr Ws information at the point of 
his declined applications that this meant their system was faulty. And there are occasions 
where we would expect a lender to verify information. While I cant confirm the exact reasons 
what NewDay wanted to verify (as this is commercially sensitive), the information they 
requested would indicate they wanted to verify he was earning what he said he was earning, 
his residential type, accommodation costs, and outgoings to ensure any credit they approved 
was affordable and sustainable for him. 
Im persuaded that this is why they accepted Mr Ws application manually even though he 
says he told them the same information as part of his application. Although the information 
was the same, the difference was the proof, and verification of the proof. 
Ive considered what Mr W has said about the email he received which told him since you 
applied we have made changes to our application process which means it is likely that now 
we would be able to accept your application. The wording used is likely and not 
guaranteed (or a similar word). So it could be that if Mr W had applied after this email 
(although I appreciate there was no need as he had already been accepted by this point) 
that NewDay may have had to still verify some of the information provided.
Alternatively, due to the changes on the system, he may have had his application approved 
without having to have this manually processed. But again, Im not persuaded those 
changes mean the system was faulty prior to the changes. I know Mr W will strongly 
disagree with this, but Id like to give him an example of why I say this. 
Systems and processes will evolve over time and may include advances in technology or 
other features which have become available over time. What is available now might not have 
been available previously. An example of this is that some credit bureaus are now able to 
provide information to a lender about an applicants verified credit account turnover. It could 
be something like the introduction of NewDay using this which would verify an applicants 
turnover in their bank account which would mean they could accept Mr Ws application now 
as opposed to him having to send in his bank statements to prove this. But this wouldnt 
mean a system is faulty if they didnt use something like this previously. I must stress again 
that Ive used this as an example to show how systems could be changed or evolve over 
time and NewDay have not told me that this is a change they have made to their system. 
In summary, Im not persuaded that a manual acceptance with the same information which 
Mr W says was provided as part of the automatic process equates to NewDay having a 
faulty system originally. So it follows I dont require NewDay to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman