DRN-2691751
The complaint
Miss P complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money she lost when she was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
Miss P received a phone call from someone claiming to be from Monzo, but who we now 
know to be a scammer. She was told there had been fraudulent activity on her card and that 
someone had taken out a loan on her account. In order to undo it, she was told shed need 
to go through a reverse loan procedure. The caller then talked her through the procedure, 
which involved her taking out a loan and then transferring the money out via both card 
payments and bank transfers. Ive set out the relevant transactions below:
Amount Details
£15,000 Loan funds into account
£2,800 Card payment out of account
£4,500 Bank transfer out of account
£2,800 Card payment out of account
£2,800 Card payment out of account
£2,050 Bank transfer out of account
Miss P was told shed receive documents for her to complete and sign within the next 48 
hours. But when she checked her account the following day she saw further fraudulent 
activity and so called Monzo. Monzo explained it hadnt called her the previous day or asked 
her to go through a reverse loan procedure, and so the scam was uncovered.
Monzo investigated and agreed to refund the money sent out by bank transfer but said it 
couldnt refund the card payments. It also ultimately agreed to refund the interest Miss P had 
been charged on the loan and pay her £50 as compensation for delays in its response to her 
complaint. Miss P wasnt satisfied with Monzos response, so referred her complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and felt Monzo ought to have carried out 
further checks before processing the payments Miss P made out of her account. They said 
these checks would have made it clear Miss P was the victim of a scam and she then 
wouldnt have sent the payments. So they thought Monzo should refund the remaining card 
transactions and the money Miss P paid to pay off the loan, plus interest, and remove the 
loan from her credit file. Monzo didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Miss P authorised the payments out of her account. She says she 
made them herself, as directed by the caller. So while I recognise that she didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, the starting position in law is that Monzo was obliged to follow her 
instructions and process the payments. So Miss P isnt automatically entitled to a refund.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think Monzo 
should fairly and reasonably:
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This 
is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
From looking at the statements for Miss Ps account, I think the first card payment of £2,800 
out of her account was unusual and out of character for her. It was for a relatively large 
amount of money and a significantly larger amount than any other payments going out of her 
account in the previous twelve months. And it was to a new payee that Miss P hadnt send 
money to before. So I think Monzo should have identified that Miss P was potentially at risk 
of fraud as a result of this payment and carried out additional checks before processing it.
I accept its not for this service to dictate the checks Monzo should do or the questions it 
should ask. But, given the size of the payment and how unusual it was, I think in these 
circumstances it would be reasonable to expect these additional checks to at least include 
questions about the purpose of the payment.
Ive not seen any suggestion that Miss P had been given a cover story or told what to say if 
Monzo asked about the payments. So if Monzo had carried out these additional checks, I 
think she would have told it that she thought she was speaking to Monzo already, that shed 
been told a fraudulent loan application had been made on her account and that she needed 
to do the reverse loan procedure and make these payments to undo the fraudulent 
application. And on finding this out, I think it would have been clear to Monzo that Miss P 
was the victim of a scam. It could then have explained to her that it hadnt asked her to go 
through the reverse loan procedure, the scam wouldve been uncovered and Miss P wouldnt 
have made any of the payments or transfers.
So if Monzo had carried out additional checks before processing the card payment of 
£2,800, as I think it should have done, I dont think Miss P would have lost any of the money 
she did.
I also think the loan application Miss P made while on the phone with the scammer would 
have been identified as part of the scam and unwound at the same time. And so Miss P also 
wouldnt have made any of the payments towards the loan, been charged any interest on it 
or had it recorded on her credit file.
Ive thought about whether Miss P should bear some responsibility for her loss. But I dont 
think it would be fair for her to do so. This was a sophisticated scam where the scammers 
spoke to Miss P on the phone more than once, knew certain details about her and had spoofed Monzos legitimate phone number. So I dont think it would be fair to say Miss P was 
grossly negligent or acted unreasonably and I think Monzo should refund the full amount she 
lost.
As the initial card payments and bank transfers out of Miss Ps account were made from the 
loan funds, she didnt suffer a financial loss at this point. But Miss P made one monthly 
payment towards the loan of £336.54 and then used £8,483.61 of savings to pay it off. So I 
think Monzo should refund these payments, if it has not done so already, so that Miss P has 
not suffered a financial loss as a result of the loan. Miss P has also lost out on the interest 
she would have earned on those savings, so I also think Monzo should pay her the account 
interest rate of 0.01% on this payment from the date she paid off the loan until the date the 
£8,483.61 is refunded to her.
Monzo has also offered to pay Miss P £50 as compensation for the delays in its response to 
her complaint. And I think this amount is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Ps complaint and require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Refund any payments Miss P made towards the loan it has not already refunded, as 
explained above, so that Miss P hasnt suffered a financial loss as a result of the loan
Unwind the loan and remove any record of it from Miss Ps credit file
Pay Miss P £50 compensation
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 October 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman