DRN-2796068
The complaint
Mr S complains about a logbook loan provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited, trading as 
Loans 2 Go, (L2G), which he says was unaffordable. 
What happened
L2G provided Mr S with a loan of £5,000 in May 2015. The interest rate was 120%,   
(315.4% APR). The loan was to be repaid over 36 months with monthly repayments of 
£638.89. If Mr S made each payment when it was due, hed pay £23,000 in total. Mr S fell 
into arrears with the loan and L2G agreed to accept a payment of £5,700 in full and final 
settlement of the loan balance which was paid in late November 2015.  
The loan was a log book loan. It was granted on the basis that Mr S provided L2G with a bill 
of sale for his car. This meant that if Mr S didnt make his loan repayments, L2G could 
potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the car.
Mr S said that L2Gs loan should have never been granted as he believed that if sufficient 
checks had been carried out, it would have been clear that he couldnt afford the loan from 
the outset. He said that he wasnt working at the time he took out the loan and he was 
gambling heavily.
In its final response letter, L2G said that it had conducted a thorough affordability 
assessment prior to approving the loan. It said that it verified Mr Ss declared income via an 
income verification tool and reviewed his credit file. L2G said that it verified that Mr S 
received an average monthly income of £1,862. In addition, following a review of Mr Ss loan 
application and his credit file, L2G calculated Mr Ss monthly expenditure and credit 
commitments to total £937. It then added £60 as a buffer to account for any fluctuations in 
his monthly income or expenditure. This made his expenditure total £997 and it said that the 
contractual loan repayment of £638.89 would still have been affordable. 
Our adjudicators view
 
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She said that L2G had 
obtained information about Mr Ss income and expenditure as well as carrying out a credit 
check and obtaining bank statements covering a period of three months prior to giving him 
this loan. She said that the bank statements L2G saw showed a total of seven gambling 
transactions on 17 April 2015 and 20 April 2015. These transactions totalled around £342 
which was roughly the balance of Mr Ss account at the time. Because of this, there werent 
enough funds available in the account to pay a number of direct debits. The adjudicator said 
that this suggested that Mr S was having problems managing his money and that it was 
unlikely hed be able to sustainably repay the loan.
L2G disagreed. It accepted there were gambling transactions on Mr Ss bank statements, 
but it didnt agree that Mr S had a significant gambling problem. Given that the bank 
statements were over a three month period, this would equate to a monthly gambling 
expenditure of £114 per month. L2G didnt agree that this was a significant percentage of  
Mr Ss income of at least £1,862. When L2G assessed Mr Ss application, it found that his 
monthly disposable income was £925. So even if it were to factor in the gambling, the loan 
would have been affordable.
The adjudicator responded to say that whilst the amount Mr S spent on gambling in this 
instance was affordable based on his declared income, the fact he spent all his remaining 
balance in his account on gambling was concerning. She thought there was a high chance 
Mr S would have used any further funds lent to him for this same purpose. She said that this
activity was unsustainable and for that reason, she didnt think L2G should have given him 
this loan.
L2G responded to say that given the fact that out of a three month period there was only a 
record of gambling for two days, it didnt agree with the adjudicators assertion that he would 
have used any other funds lent to him for the same purpose. 
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to L2G on 20 April 2021. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when L2G lent to Mr S the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Its 
rules and guidance obliged L2G to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this meant that 
L2G needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower 
could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the 
agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet those 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so L2G had to think about whether Mr S could 
sustainably repay his loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr S undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for L2G to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr S. 
In general, I thought that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
  the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);  the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ss complaint, Id considered the 
following questions:
- Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ss 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown?
- Did L2G make a fair lending decision?
Did L2G carry out reasonable and proportionate checks when it provided the loan?
As set out above, L2G gathered some information from Mr S about his income and 
expenses before it agreed the loan. It also carried out a credit check.
Id reviewed L2Gs credit check. It wasnt clear whether the results were correct for Mr S as 
the address shown in the credit check was incorrect and not that provided by Mr S. In any 
event, the results of the credit check were very brief and showed that the person checked 
wasnt insolvent and didnt have any county court judgements against him. There was also 
no information about other credit commitments.
Mr S declared in his application form that he was self-employed and that his monthly income 
was £5,000. He also said that his expenses were £937 including credit commitments of £52. 
L2G had amended Mr Ss monthly income to £1,862 and it applied a £60 buffer so that Mr S 
had a disposable income of £865 after the buffer.
I thought the fact that Mr S was self-employed meant that his income might have been 
sporadic or likely to fluctuate. His declared income might not have been his available income 
and might not have been net of all tax, national insurance and business expenses. There 
was also an element of uncertainty  especially as Mr S was unlikely to receive any sick pay 
or holiday pay. So, I thought that L2G should have taken steps to verify Mr Ss available 
income as carefully as possible as any error  even if slight - was likely to have a significant 
impact on his ability to repay this loan. 
I could see that L2G obtained bank statements from Mr S for the three months prior to the 
loan and it also obtained correspondence from HMRC about Mr Ss tax return for 2013/2014. 
L2G had provided this service with copies of these. It seemed on the face of it that L2G had 
carried out reasonable checks by requesting Mr Ss bank statements and tax information in 
addition to asking about his income and expenses. However, I thought the information it had 
gathered should have raised concerns and prompted further checks.
I noted that the tax return correspondence was for the tax year 2013/2014. So, I didnt think 
this would have provided sufficient evidence of Mr Ss monthly income at the time of the loan 
application in May 2015. It was clear from the tax return that Mr Ss net income for the year 
was around £25,600 after expenses. After HMRCs tax and national insurance computation, 
this left around £18,667. The monthly equivalent was around £1,555 which was rather less 
than the figure of £1,862 L2G had used.
I could also see that as of May 2015, Mr S hadnt paid HMRC all his tax and national 
insurance for 2013/2014 and was being charged interest and late payment fees. At that point 
he owed it almost £1,600. I thought these arrears should have concerned L2G.I could also see from the bank statements L2G obtained that there appeared to be no 
evidence of any income being received in those three months. There were two deposits 
totalling £2,800 in cash made by Mr S in early March 2015. I could see that Mr Ss account 
was overdrawn immediately before these deposits and his account didnt appear to have an 
overdraft arrangement. 
Mr S had told this service that he was out of work at the time of the loan application. But Id 
noted that L2G had said that Mr Ss monthly income was £1,862. I couldnt see how this was 
calculated and evidenced, and whether it was net of tax. As there didnt appear to be any 
income received on the bank statements L2G saw, I thought it should have gathered more 
information about Mr Ss recent income. Mr S was entering into a significant commitment, 
the repayment amount was a significant percentage of his income (as calculated by L2G),  
the loan term was 36 months and Mr S could have lost his car if he ran into difficulty making 
the repayments.
Id also noted that Mr S had said in his application form that he was paying £200 tax each 
month and I could see some payments to HMRC on the bank statements. I didnt know if 
L2G had taken Mr Ss tax payments into account when calculating his income to be £1,862. 
And as Id said above, I thought Mr Ss net monthly income (after payment of tax and 
national insurance) on the basis of his 2013/2014 tax return was more likely to be around 
£1,555.
I could also see on the bank statements that Mr S had an additional monthly credit 
commitment for around £110 which he hadnt mentioned in his application form. I thought it 
was likely that L2G would have seen this payment on Mr Ss bank statements. 
Id also noted that CONC 5.3.7R said that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been truthful in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
I thought L2G should have had concerns about Mr Ss financial situation because there was 
a discrepancy between what Mr S had said about his monthly income and expenses and 
what L2G could see through its bank statement checks. 
I also couldnt see that L2G had used the bank statements to verify Mr Ss expenses or his 
business expenses. It seemed that it relied on the amounts declared by Mr S. Overall, it 
didnt appear L2G had properly scrutinised the information it did see to ensure that Mr S did 
have enough money to be able to make the monthly repayments.
I could see that the adjudicator had referred to some gambling transactions on the bank 
statements which were made on two days in April 2015, and that L2G didnt agree with the 
adjudicators assertion that Mr S would have used any other funds lent to him for the same 
purpose. I could understand why the lender had said this and agreed that the gambling 
transactions it would have seen on the bank statements werent frequent enough to make it 
think that the gambling would continue in the same pattern. 
But I thought the adjudicators main reason for upholding the complaint was the fact that     
Mr S used most of the remaining balance on his account for gambling purposes which 
caused three direct debits for financial commitments to be returned and that this suggested 
that Mr S was having difficulties managing his money.  I could see from the bank statements L2G saw that there were six gambling transactions on 
17 April 2015 followed by another one on 20 April 2015. The seven transactions totalled 
£342.95. When Mr S started gambling on 17 April 2015, there was £345.27 in his account. 
So, the amount gambled was almost equal to the balance available in Mr Ss account at the 
time. Mr S spent almost all his available balance on his account on gambling. This resulted 
firstly in a direct debit for a loan repayment of £109.73 being returned unpaid on                  
27 April 2015 and a direct debit to another lender for £5 being returned on 30 April 2015. 
Then a third direct debit for an insurance provider for £11.31 was returned twice on             
11 May 2015 and 22 May 2015. Mr S printed his bank statements on 28 May 2015, the day 
hed applied for the loan, when the balance on his account was just £2.32. All this was 
shown on the bank statements that L2G were provided with. So, I thought it ought to have 
seen that Mr S appeared to be having significant problems managing his money which 
should have caused L2G concerns.
Ultimately, I could see from L2Gs loan account statement that Mr S did have difficulty 
meeting his loan repayments. He was unable to make most of his monthly repayments in full 
from June 2015 until October 2015.   
Overall, I thought L2G was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to Mr S based on the 
information it already had. I didnt think L2G had a complete picture of Mr Ss financial 
circumstances when it agreed to provide this expensive loan to him. He was, after all, 
committing to repay £23,000 altogether over the 36 months.
I thought L2G should have been concerned that the bank statements it had seen appeared 
to show no evidence of any income being received and I couldnt see that it had seen any 
other recent evidence of Mr Ss income. I could also see that the bank statements showed 
other commitments that L2G ought to have taken into account when assessing whether the 
loan would be affordable. There were also discrepancies between what Mr S had declared 
and the information L2G had received. And I also thought L2G would have likely seen that 
Mr S was having difficulties managing his money from his bank statements and 
correspondence from HMRC. 
I hadnt gone on to consider what proportionate checks would likely have shown L2G, 
because as Id explained above, I thought L2G was irresponsible to have agreed the loan on 
the basis of the information it already had, and I thought that it made an unfair lending 
decision. 
So, subject to any further representations by Mr S or L2G my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint and say that L2G should put things right as shown below.
Putting things right  what L2G needs to do
As I intend to conclude that L2G was irresponsible to have lent to Mr S, he shouldnt have to 
pay any interest, fees or charges for the loan. 
So L2G should:
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr S on the loan;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation to the loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give     
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. Mr S said he was happy with my provisional decision.
L2G responded to my provisional decision to say that it accepted it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr S and L2G have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold the 
complaint and require L2G to pay Mr S some compensation and take the steps as set out 
below.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint I order 
Loans 2 Go Limited, trading as Loans 2 Go, to:
1. Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr S on the loan;
2. Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
3. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation to the loan.
 * HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give    
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman