DRN-4394807
The complaint
Mr M complains he incurred an increase in insurance premium as a result of having to take 
out a new policy due to Covea Insurance plc (Covea) avoiding his insurance. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here.
Mr M took out a motor insurance policy underwritten by Covea. Mr M made a claim under 
the policy following an incident involving his vehicle. Covea declined the claim and avoided 
Mr Ms policy for misrepresentation - Covea said Mr M hadnt told them that his car had 
modifications. 
Due to Coveas policy avoidance, Mr M took out a new insurance policy with another insurer. 
He also had to tell the new insurer that his policy with Covea had been avoided. Mr M 
complains that cost of the new policy is higher than what he paid Covea. He feels that the 
increase is due to Covea avoiding his policy. 
Covea later overturned their decision to avoid Mr Ms policy and also settled his claim. Mr M 
said that as a result of the claim settlement, he incurred an additional increase in premium of 
£80 with his new insurer. 
Mr M remained dissatisfied that he had to take a new insurance policy which resulted in 
paying a higher premium. He also complained about the distress and inconvenience this 
matter caused him and the increase in premium following the claim settlement. 
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He explained that 
but for Coveas policy avoidance, Mr M wouldnt have taken out a new policy. He was 
satisfied that it was because of Coveas incorrect avoidance that Mr M incurred an increased 
premium. He recommended Covea should pay the difference in the premium as a result of 
the increase. He also said that Covea should increase its award for distress and 
inconvenience to £150. He did however say Covea didnt need to reimburse Mr M for the 
increase in premium as a result of the claim settlement as this would have likely happened in 
any event. 
Covea disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Covea needs to do more to put things right. I will explain why. 
Covea accepts that they shouldnt have avoided Mr Ms policy and have overturned their 
decision and dealt with Mr Ms claim, I therefore dont need to make a finding on this. My 
decision therefore focuses on what would have happened had Covea not avoided Mr Ms 
policy and how to put Mr M back in the position he should have been in but for Coveas 
incorrect avoidance.  
As a result of Covea avoiding Mr Ms policy, he had to take an insurance policy with a new 
insurer. The policy with Covea cost Mr M £235.76 and the new policy cost him £385. Mr M 
says that the increase was due to him telling his new insurer that his previous policy was 
avoided. Covea said the increase could be due to a number of factors. 
I dont think Covea is wrong in saying that the increase could be in relation to a number of 
reasons, but I also need to think about whether Mr M would have incurred this increase in 
premium if Covea hadnt incorrectly avoided his policy and I dont think he would have. I 
therefore agree with the investigator that Covea needs to put Mr M back in the position he 
would have been in had the policy not been avoided and as such it should refund the 
£149.24 premium difference.  
Mr M has also said that as a result of informing his new insurer the claim was settled, he 
incurred a further increase in premium of £80. I agree with the investigator that irrespective 
of whether Mr M took out a new policy or remained with Covea, the premium most likely 
would have increased following the claim. Its often the case that the claim itself  regardless 
of whos at fault  will affect the premium. While some insurers will only rate on no claim 
discount disallowed or fault claims, others will consider any claim  or even just a claim 
notification  as a risk factor. This is because insurers say that drivers who have been 
involved in accidents, regardless of fault, are more likely to be involved in future claims. I 
therefore dont think Covea needs to do anything further in relation to the premium increase 
following the claim settlement. 
Covea offered Mr M £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by this 
matter. I agree with the investigator that the amount offered isnt sufficient in the 
circumstances and so the compensation should be increased to £150. 
Overall, Im satisfied that if Covea hadnt avoided Mr Ms policy, he wouldnt have needed to 
take out a new policy and incurred the additional premium. Covea therefore needs to put Mr 
M back in the position he would have been in but for their error.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Covea Insurance plc to:
Pay Mr M £149.24 for the increase in premium
Increase their offer of compensation for distress and inconvenience from £50 to £150
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman