DRN-3471444
The complaint
Miss D and Mr T complain that Santander UK Plc was unfair to decline to lend additional 
money when they wanted to move home, and then to apply an early repayment charge 
(ERC). They ask that it refunds all or part of the ERC.
What happened
Miss D and Mr T took out a mortgage with Santander in August 2020 to buy a property. They 
took out a five-year fixed interest rate product. This included an ERC which applied if they 
repaid the mortgage before 2024. Miss D and Mr T could move home without paying the 
ERC if they ported the product to a new mortgage. 
Miss D and Mr T moved home in mid-2020 and ported their mortgage product. Miss D says 
their mobility was then seriously affected by health conditions and they needed to move to a 
disability-friendly property. Miss D and Mr T found a suitable property and applied to port 
their mortgage and take out additional borrowing. Miss D says Santander was unfair not to 
offer this. She says their income had increased since they took out the mortgage and 
Santander had wrongly characterised her as self-employed.
Miss D and Mr T sold the property in June 2021, repaid the mortgage and moved into a 
rental property. Miss D says Mr T is unable to work due to ill health and she can no longer 
work full time due to pre-existing illnesses worsening. They say the ERC is a lot of money for 
them after suffering financially and with ill health, and their savings have been decimated by 
the cost of the two house moves and the ERC.
Our investigator said Santander wasnt obliged to lend the amount Miss D and Mr T wanted. 
He said it had fairly considered Miss D and Mr Ts request to refund the ERC. Our 
investigator said Santander was entitled under the mortgage terms to apply the ERC.
Miss D and Mr T didnt agree. Miss D said Santander didnt give them the opportunity to 
make a formal application. They werent offered a meeting or advice and couldnt get 
through on the phone. The people they spoke to on the mortgage helpline gave generic 
information and didnt consider their personal circumstances or give advice about their 
options. Miss D says Santander based its decision on their income when they took out the 
mortgage, it wrongly said she was self-employed and it didnt re-assess their income which 
had increased. She said they were told by a mortgage adviser at a branch that theyd be 
able to borrow more. 
Miss D said Santander had waived the ERC for other borrowers who became disabled. She 
said they werent treated fairly when they were in a difficult situation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D and Mr T took out a mortgage product that included an ERC. This applied if the 
mortgage was repaid before May 2024. The ERC was clearly set out in the mortgage offer, 
with examples of the amount payable at different times. Miss D and Mr T agreed to this 
when they accepted the mortgage offer.
Miss D and Mr T repaid the mortgage in June 2021 and Santander applied the ERC, as it 
was entitled to do under the mortgage terms and conditions. Miss D and Mr T say this wasnt 
fair. First, Santander was unfair to decline their request to port the mortgage and take out 
additional borrowing. Second, it should have waived the ERC because of their 
circumstances.
Did Santander deal fairly with Miss D and Mr Ts porting application?
The five-year product Miss D and Mr T took out was portable  that is, it could be transferred 
to a mortgage on another property. In order to do this, Miss D and Mr Ts new mortgage 
application had to meet Santanders lending criteria and affordability tests.
Santander said it doesnt have a record of an application from Miss D and Mr T in 2021. It 
says there could have been a discussion in branch when they were told additional borrowing 
wasnt affordable. Miss D says they were told at the branch the mortgage was affordable but 
werent given the opportunity to make an application. Miss D says when she called the 
mortgages team, she was asked questions and told she wasnt eligible as she was self-
employed. Miss D disputes this and says Santanders staff didnt understand her work 
contract. 
Miss D and Mr T had taken out the five-year product in 2019. Santander agreed to port the 
product in mid-2020. It says the loan didnt meet affordability checks at that time, but it 
agreed to port as a concession, based on Miss D and Mr T having maintained payments and 
that they would port on a like for like basis. 
Given that Santander agreed to port in mid-2020 on a like for like basis, it might well have 
done so again, especially if Miss D and Mr T needed to move due to health and mobility 
issues. However, Miss D and Mr T didnt ask about porting on a like for like basis in 2021. 
Miss D and Mr T wanted to take out additional borrowing. Given the issues around 
affordability when the product was ported in mid-2020 it seems likely Santander would have 
declined additional lending on affordability grounds if Miss D and Mr T had made an 
application in 2021. Most likely this is why, after asking about their circumstances, it didnt 
offer an appointment with a mortgage adviser.
I dont think its reasonable to say that Santander should have offered additional lending if 
Miss D and Mr T didnt meet its criteria or progress an application for additional lending if this 
was clearly the case. In the circumstances, I cant fairly find that Santander acted unfairly in 
not offering the mortgage Miss D and Mr T wanted. 
Should Santander have agreed to waive or refund the ERC?
There are circumstances in which I think it would be fair to require a lender to waive an ERC. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss D and Mr T, but thats not the case here. 
Miss D says Santanders mortgage helpline gave them generic information when they 
needed advice tailored to their situation. But from what Miss D has said, their enquiries were 
about taking out a larger mortgage. I think if Miss D and Mr T wanted to discuss with 
Santander what support it could offer to help them move to more suitable property they could 
have asked about this. And if they needed wider advice about their options, they could have 
sought independent advice.I think Santander took Miss D and Mr Ts health into account when making its decision not to 
waive the ERC. It referred the decision to a senior team. It explained why it declined the 
request to Miss D and Mr T. It said, based on the evidence it had, their health conditions pre-
dated them taking out the five-year product and buying the property in August 2020. Its 
records showed Mr T was unable to work before they bought the property in August 2020. 
Santander said these were matters Miss D and Mr T could have taken into account when 
choosing the product and the property. 
Miss D says since moving in mid-2020 she developed new symptoms which aggravated her 
existing conditions. She provided letters from medical practitioners about her symptoms. 
While Im sorry for the difficulties Miss D describes, the letters she provided dont say shed 
suffered a change in her mobility that would have required a move to a different property. 
Santander also took Miss D and Mr Ts financial circumstances into account. I appreciate 
that they didnt want their savings reduced, but I havent seen evidence to suggest they were 
in financial difficulty or unable to pay the ERC without it causing financial hardship. Miss D 
and Mr T were able to move into a different property, despite paying the ERC.
Miss D told Santander in mid-June 2021 that if they were unable to work due to their 
disabilities they would fall into mortgage arrears, and so they decided to sell the property. 
This isnt consistent with their application to increase their borrowing or their complaint that 
Santander was unfair to decline this. 
Santander said if Miss D and Mr T needed to move immediately, they could have looked into 
other options, such as renting out the property until the product expired, with the rent 
covering the mortgage. Renting might also have given Miss D and Mr T time to look for a 
suitable property to buy so that they could port the product. Miss D says this wasnt possible 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic preventing viewings. However, Miss D and Mr T were able to 
buy the property in mid-2020, arrange the sale of the property in mid-2021 and find 
somewhere to rent during the pandemic. So I dont think the pandemic would have 
prevented them renting out the property, if they wanted to do so. Of course, this might not 
have been the right route for Miss D and Mr T. But I think they could have considered, or 
even taken independent advice, about what options were open to them.
I dont think that I can fairly find that Santander was unfair in assessing Miss D and Mr Ts 
request for the ERC to be waived.
Disability discrimination
Miss D says Santander should waive the ERC because their health problems affected their 
mobility and they needed to move to a more suitable property. She says by not doing this, it 
discriminated against them because of their disabilities.
Only a court can determine whether disabilities legislation has been breached. But I can 
consider whether Santander treated Miss D and Mr T fairly.
Santander applied the ERC in accordance with the mortgage terms and conditions  as it 
would be entitled to do for any customer that repaid the mortgage while an ERC applied. 
And I think Santander dealt with Miss D and Mr Ts request to waive the ERC in the same 
way as it would for any other customer, taking their circumstances (personal, medical and 
financial) into account. 
Its not uncommon for borrowers to move while an ERC is in place, and for a variety of 
reasons (to be nearer to family or employment, a change in the size or needs of a family, 
and other changes in circumstances). Lenders allow porting so that borrowers can continue to benefit from a preferential interest rate and avoid paying an ERC. While Miss D says they 
needed to move, this would also often be the case for other customers. 
If Miss D and Mr Ts financial position meant paying the ERC prevented them from moving in 
circumstances where they needed to do so, I might reach a different outcome. But that 
wasnt the case here. I think Santander fairly considered their request to waive the ERC and 
explained why it declined. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require 
Santander to refund the ERC.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman