DRN-3042921
The complaint
Mr K complains about advice given by Prosperity Wealth Limited to transfer the preserved 
benefits in his occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension. He says he 
wasnt told about the valuable benefits hed be giving up. 
Although the Prosperity advisor saw Mr and Mrs K together this decision is only about Mr K.
What happened
In early 2007 Mr K consulted an advisor from Prosperity Wealth Limited (Prosperity) about 
maximising his retirement income. Mr K was advised to switch four personal pension plans 
with transfer values totalling around £72,236 to a new personal pension with another 
provider Ill call C. The investment was to be split equally in four funds based on Mr Ks 
medium attitude to risk, and to which he intended to make monthly net contributions of 
£400. At the same time Prosperity also arranged for Mr K to transfer the deferred benefits of 
his defined benefit OPS worth around £20,000 with his previous employer B into the same 
plan to be invested in the same way. 
In 2018 Mr K complained to Prosperity that the advice to transfer his OPS wasnt in his best 
interests, and if the risks had been explained he wouldnt have gone ahead. He wanted 
compensation to reflect the loss of benefits at retirement particularly the guaranteed spouse 
pension. Prosperity rejected the complaint in April 2019 on the basis it hadnt advised Mr K 
to transfer the OPS but had arranged it at the same time on an execution only basis in 
accordance with his signed instructions. It said Mr K knew about the benefits in his OPS hed 
be giving up as hed been given a statement showing an annual pension of around £1,700 
per year increasing by RPI up to 5%, and a 50% spouses pension for his wife. It also said 
Mr K received annual statements of his plan with C (which later became R), the latest of 
which in 2018 showed hell receive an income in retirement of about £12,200.
Mr K complained to this service, saying the loss of deferred benefits in his OPS meant he 
couldnt afford to take voluntary redundancy from his current employer. At the time of the 
advice hed been 45 but didnt intend to retire before his normal retirement age of 65. He and 
his wife had been worried about their finances as she was on maternity leave looking after 
two small children, so he was the only wage earner. They could only afford an endowment 
mortgage and had no savings or investment only debts. The deferred benefits in the OPS 
hed be giving up werent explained to him, and he doesnt understand the meaning of 
execution only. He says the Prosperity advisor told him if he transferred his pension it 
would grow faster so he could retire early, using the lump sum to pay off his debts, whereas 
he couldnt take his OPS benefits until 65. Mr K says the Prosperity advisor pressurised him 
with multiple phone calls and Mr K had signed the pre-prepared paperwork without really 
understanding what it meant. 
One of our investigators upheld the complaint as she thought Prosperity hadnt acted in 
Mr Ks best interests. Prosperity disagreed so it was passed to me to make a decision. 
Before doing so I asked for more information from both parties. Mr K retracted some of the 
details about his circumstances at the time of the advice, saying when he complained to us 
he must have confused the dates and provided information relating to 1997 rather than 
2007. In fact he and his wife were both working, they werent in debt and could comfortably 
afford their mortgage. His primary objective had actually been financial security for his wife 
and family as his father had died suddenly at 45, the age hed been at the time of the advice. 
So he shouldnt have been advised to transfer away from the OPS and give up the spouse 
pension.  
Prosperity reiterated its advisor wasnt authorised to advise on OPS transfers, which is why 
the recommendation letter only referred to the personal pensions. It provided copies of fact-
finds which had been completed on 1 and 26 February 2007. 
Provisional decision August 2021
Having reviewed the case and the additional information provided by both parties I was 
thinking of coming to a different outcome to the investigator. So I issued a provisional 
decision giving both parties the opportunity to comment further. The provisional decision 
covered six main points:
The regulations which applied at the time;
Whether or not Mr K was advised by Prosperity to transfer the benefits of his OPS;
What was known about Mr Ks circumstances and objectives at the time (rather than 
what he says now with hindsight);
Whether the OPS benefits Mr K was giving up were explained to him;
And what he was likely to have done, even if they were. 
In summary I said:
Theres no evidence, other than Mr Ks recollections, that he was advised to transfer 
the preserved benefits of his OPS alongside the four personal pensions. Hed 
approached Prosperity, obtained the transfer value himself, the OPS correspondence 
was addressed to him not the advisor, and the recommendation letter only referred to 
the four personal pensions. 
I disagreed with Prosperitys position about the Conduct of Business rules which 
applied at the time. As from December 2001 advisors were required to set out their 
recommendations so clients made decisions based on a firm understanding of the 
risks involved and a knowledge of what protection, rights, expectations and options 
they may be giving up which meant providing a reasons why letter. And there was 
a presumption against transferring away from an OPS at the time, as from 2005 COB 
5.3.29G said a firm should (a) start by assuming [a transfer] will not be suitable, and 
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence 
available at the time that it is in the customer's best interests. But these rules only 
applied when giving advice, which I couldnt say was the case here. 
The information in the fact finds captured at the time Mr K met with the Prosperity 
advisor record his priorities as pensions and capital growth. They dont say a 
spouse pension was the most important thing to Mr K and didnt mention his 
concerns about the implications of his fathers early death at all;Even if I accepted Mr Ks main concern had been a secure spouse pension I didnt 
think the information about the retirement benefits Mr K or his wife would receive 
from the OPS would be sufficiently reassuring, particularly if he was worried he 
wouldnt reach his normal retirement age (NRA) of 65. The Statement of 
Entitlement based on a transfer value of £20,081.74 guaranteed to 16 March 2007 
showed Mr K could expect an annual pension at 65 of £1,777.01 as at the date of 
leaving the scheme, or £2,143.80 as at the date of quotation. And the spouse 
pension was only half of that, with no entitlement for his wife to a lump sum if Mr K 
passed away before reaching his NRA. While the benefits were indexed based on 
RPI up to 5%, the actual increases for the previous five years were much lower than 
that, ranging from 1.0% to 3.2%.
I accepted Mr K may not recall the information he was shown back in 2007. But I was 
satisfied he had been given information about the benefits hed be giving up and had 
time to consider these before going ahead. The undated statement of entitlement 
with a transfer value of £19,754 mustve been sent to Mr K about a month before the 
1 February meeting as a copy was added to Prosperitys file on 10 January 2007. 
The formal transfer quote addressed to Mr K from the trustees of the B pension 
scheme dated 5 June 2007, had a warning on the front page which read You should 
consider all the facts very carefully, because your decision may affect your standard 
of living. It also made clear unless the trustees heard from Mr K to the contrary, 
your benefits will remain in the Scheme. And the declaration signed by Mr K on 23 
June 2007 included the line when the transfer is made, I, my family and dependents 
will no longer have any entitlement to benefits from the Scheme. So I thought Mr K 
was put on notice he was making an important decision, hed seen the relevant 
information and if he had any doubts about the transfer or felt hed been pressurised 
into signing the form in February he could have stopped it simply by not doing 
anything more. 
I understood Mr Ks regret about giving up a secure defined benefit OPS. But if his priority at 
the time had been to ensure his family would be looked after in the event of his early death I 
didnt think an annual spouse pension of less than £1,000 would have dissuaded him from 
transferring the benefits from his OPS along with the personal pensions to C. I thought it 
more likely than not hed have hoped if the combined funds were vested wisely theyd 
provide a more generous income at retirement whenever that might be. Both Mr K and 
Prosperity agreed he didnt need to take benefits early in order to repay debts. But retiring 
prior to 65 may have seemed an attractive prospect, particularly if Mr K believed he might 
not live a long life. 
I couldnt overlook that Mr K signed the execution-only form and had adequate opportunity to 
read the OPS paperwork prior to the 1 February 2007 meeting and again prior to signing the 
transfer form on 23 June 2007. So I couldnt say Mr K only agreed to the transfer because 
he was pressurised into to doing so by the Prosperity advisor.
It turned out that Mr K remains in employment, with no immediate desire to stop working and 
intends to retire at 67 when hell receive the state pension, so the spouse pension fortunately 
hasnt proved necessary. But I said I cant use hindsight, I must look at the circumstances 
which applied in 2007 which suggested Mr K would most likely have wanted to transfer. So 
on the basis of what Id seen, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. 
Responses to the provisional decision
Prosperity didnt respond. Mr K said in summary:Although hed signed the execution only form which Prosperity had prepared, they 
werent obliged to carry out his instructions. In support of this he referred to a final 
decision on another case issued by one of my ombudsmen colleagues which 
suggested an advisor could decide whether or not to carry out a customers 
instructions and in Mr Ks opinion they shouldnt have;
Prosperity wasnt authorised to advise on OPS transfers but didnt refer him to 
another advisor;
The fact Mr K is still working, and the spouse pension hasnt proved necessary 
doesnt turn bad advice into good advice;
Advice was definitely given by Prosperity to transfer his final salary benefits;
Mr K worked for a car manufacturer and had no knowledge of pension schemes;
The advisor picked the funds the plan was invested in, Mr K wasnt involved in this;
Hed definitely had reservations and felt pressurised but trusted the advisor who 
guaranteed the funds would increase to secure a robust retirement at age 55
As the investigator initially upheld the complaint but I had not, Mr K would like it 
referred to someone else.
Additional enquiries 
Id mentioned in the provisional decision that one of the clauses in the execution-only form 
required Mr K to confirm hed been shown information about the commission Prosperity 
would receive, but Id seen no evidence of this. So I asked Prosperity about the fees Mr K 
had been charged, to see if this shed any light on whether advice had been given in respect 
of the OPS. In response Prosperity clarified the transaction took place before consumers 
were charged an advice fee, but theyd received commission from C, just over £6,256 on the 
four personal pensions and just over £1,606 on the OPS. So this information didnt really 
make things any clearer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Id like to clarify the ombudsmans role. We are independent and impartial, and we 
arent influenced or bound by the investigators conclusions. We review all the information 
available from both parties including documentary evidence and testimony. Since the 
investigator issued her opinion Mr K provided new information about his circumstances at 
the time of the advice, and Prosperity provided copies of the fact-finds, contemporaneous 
records of what Mr K told Prosperity at the time. And Mr K disputed some of the information 
we already held, believing wed confused his complaint with another case. 
So regardless of the outcome, having established the investigators opinion relied on 
information relating to 1997, ten years prior to when Mr K met Prosperity, it was necessary 
to issue a provisional decision. An ombudsmans final decision is the end of our process and 
theres no further review, so Mr Ks complaint wont be passed to someone else. But my 
decision isnt binding unless he accepts it.
Having reviewed everything again and having thought carefully about Mr Ks comments I still 
dont uphold the complaint. Let me explain why.
As Ive said, the key difficulty is the lack of evidence to show Prosperity advised Mr K to 
transfer the benefits of his OPS. Its likely his OPS came up in the course of discussions with 
the advisor and clearly the funds were invested along with the four personal pensions. But the recommendation letter and fact-finds only cover the personal pensions so are silent on 
what Mr K should do about his OPS. Since 2015 it has been mandatory to seek advice on 
defined benefit pension transfers, but only when the value exceeds £30,000 which isnt the 
case here. And in any case at the time of the advice transfers could be carried out on an 
execution-only basis, although such business was expected to arise from consumer-initiated 
contact to the firm. Mr K has explained he approached Prosperity on the recommendation of 
his brother, they didnt cold-call him. So it seems the approach was consumer-initiated. 
With regard to the decision issued on another case, its important to say is each case is 
considered on its own merits in light of the particular facts and circumstances. Complaints 
may be similar but theyre rarely identical, due to the many variations in consumers 
circumstances. For completeness I did review the decision Mr K referred to, but I dont think 
they are even similar. In that case the firm had advised the consumer not to transfer into a 
high-risk investment but had allowed it to proceed on an insistent client (not execution-only) 
basis. So its quite different from this case where theres no evidence Prosperity gave 
advice.  
Mr Ks initial complaint to us was that if he hadnt transferred he could draw benefits from his 
OPS and afford to take voluntary redundancy from his current employer. Mr K later said his 
key concern at the time of the advice related to the implications of his father passing away at 
age 45 so his focus was protecting his family. I cant know for sure what Mr Ks main 
objective was at the time, but the comment about redundancy is clearly made with hindsight. 
So Ive looked at it like this. 
Either Prosperity knew of Mr Ks concerns following his fathers death in which case I theyd 
have no reason to stand in his way of transferring his OPS. Doing so would enable him to 
access the benefits prior to 65, an age he feared he might not reach, and to leave what 
remained of his pension savings to his family should he pass away. 
Or (as the evidence suggests) Prosperity didnt know about Mr Ks father, in which case the 
advisor understood his priorities to be pensions and capital growth as recorded in the fact 
find. So they advised him to switch his personal pensions to C and enabled him to do the 
same with his OPS on that basis. Whilst Prosperity may not have known Mr Ks father had 
died at 45, Mr K himself did know so I think its reasonable to say that knowledge wouldve 
influenced his thinking. Its entirely understandable the loss of his father at such a young age 
would make Mr K consider the implications for his own family should something similar 
happen to him. And I think this gives him a strong incentive for wanting to transfer to a 
personal pension with more flexibility than the OPS. 
Mr K says the advisor guaranteed him a good pension income at 55 if he transferred. The 
recommendation letter (which only covers the personal pensions) doesnt provide any 
guarantees. In fact early on it says It is not guaranteed that the selected funds will 
outperform your current providers funds and later Past performance is no guarantee of 
future returns. Nor does it mention accessing it at 55, although this is the earliest age at 
which benefits can generally be taken. 
But the projected benefits of Mr Ks OPS were based on him taking them at 65. And while 
they were index-linked the historic annual increases were below 5%. And if it was possible to 
access the OPS prior to 65 the benefits would inevitably be even lower.
So with all this in mind I think Mr K would have weighed up the modest transfer value of the 
OPS, the low historic rate of RPI, the spouse pension being only 50% of his entitlement at 65 
with no lump sum for his wife should he pass away before then. And having done so is more 
likely than not wish to transfer his OPS alongside the personal pensions so they could be 
invested together to boost his pension entitlement whenever he needed to take his benefits and provide flexibility for himself and his family. I dont have enough to say Prosperity should 
have refused to facilitate the transfer on the basis it wasnt in Mr Ks best interests at the 
time, even though he regrets it now. 
My final decision
While I realise this will be disappointing for Mr K I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman