DRN-4078524
The complaint
Miss M complains about how TSB Bank Plc handled a transaction on her account that she 
says she didnt agree to.
What happened
Miss M held an account with TSB. In 2021 she made them aware that her ex-partner had 
been making transactions on her account which she didnt agree to. There were Direct 
Debits on her account, which TSB refunded under the Direct Debit guarantee. She also 
raised a chargeback for a transaction of £1,010.99 to a retailer. The bank raised this and 
gave her a temporary credit for the amount. But TSB received evidence that the goods had 
been delivered. TSB put this to Miss M, and she said the transaction had been done by her 
ex-partner, but that she would take responsibility for it.
The funds were re-debited from her account, which left the account overdrawn. Miss M 
raised a complaint with TSB  which TSBs records suggest was about a re-debit of Direct 
Debit payments. TSB paid £40 for any upset caused. 
After this Miss Ms account remained overdrawn, and it was eventually closed and passed to 
debt recovery.
Miss M referred a complaint to our service in December 2021, saying that it was the re-debit 
of chargeback that had pushed her account to be overdrawn. She said she hadnt received 
notice this would happen and pushed her in to a payment plan. She maintained her ex-
partner had done this transaction without her knowledge. She said shed spent a lot of time 
being passed back and forth between departments, which severely affected her mental 
health.
TSB objected to this, saying theyd not been given the chance to issue a response on a 
complaint about the chargeback. One of our investigators felt though that the root of the 
complaint was about the arrears on her account and it was clear from TSBs response they 
were aware the arrears were a result of the chargeback re-debiting. They felt that from our 
file it should have been clear from the referral to our service what Miss M was unhappy 
about, and TSB had had enough information to investigate and not done so.
TSB sent us further information on the transaction in dispute. Another investigator looked at 
the complaint and felt that TSB should have acted more reasonably when Miss M had 
informed them her ex-partner had spent the money. They asked for the money to be 
refunded, along with 8% simple interest. TSB did refund the money to the outstanding 
balance on Miss Ms account.
Miss M disagreed with this outcome as she thought the money should go to her directly. The 
investigator reassessed their opinion of the case  saying the debt outstanding was more 
than the value refunded, so Miss M would always have had to reach a repayment agreement 
with TSB. They felt it was reasonable for TSB to refund the money towards the debt. But the 
investigator felt that TSB should pay Miss M £150 compensation for the service received and 
the time taken to resolve things.
This time TSB disagreed saying that Miss M hadnt told them the funds had been spent 
fraudulently previously. Any delays were down to Miss M not making them aware of this at 
the time. They did not see a justification for the compensation. As no agreement could be 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I am satisfied our service can look at a complaint about the £1,010.99 transaction. I 
acknowledge what TSB have said about now having issued a response to a complaint about 
this transaction. But I note that we referred Miss Ms complaint about this issue to TSB in 
December 2021. Im satisfied TSB would have had enough information to investigate and 
issue a response to these points. 
I would not expect additional barriers to be placed in responding to this, such as expecting 
Miss M to contact the fraud team directly. The information needed to investigate was already 
available, so this is an unreasonable request. I also note from TSBs records they have had 
regular contact with Miss M since then  including about the arrears on the account, caused 
in part by this transaction. 
I consider there has been ample opportunity for TSB to respond on this point, and that they 
have chosen not to doesnt mean our service cannot consider her complaint.
 
There is a record from September 2021 of Miss M informing TSB that the payment was 
made by her ex-partner. TSB have commented that at the time she didnt raise it as a fraud 
claim  but in these circumstances TSB are the experts. The bank had already refunded 
Direct Debits that were set up by the ex-partner, so it could be reasonable assume they may 
find that this payment was unauthorised. 
Miss M was asking for a repayment plan at the time, which would be indicative that she 
would struggle to repay this amount if it was taken back off her. The expectation is that a 
bank would treat someone facing financial difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration  so in this instance it would have been reasonable to consider whether it was 
appropriate to refund this specific transaction. I accept though that Miss Ms story hasnt 
always been consistent, and at the time she was willing to take on the repayment. So, this 
mitigates the impact somewhat. 
TSB have now refunded this transaction to the outstanding balance. This is reasonable to 
do, the account was restored to the balance it would have been had this transaction not 
taken place. So, they havent done anything wrong by doing this.
There was also another dispute over a £500 transaction, although from what Miss M has told 
us she authorised this. This chargeback was also defended. I would see no grounds for 
asking TSB to refund that as well. This means that Miss Ms account was always likely to 
have some degree of overdrawn balance. The amount it was overdrawn was more than the 
£1,010.99 TSB have now refunded. I cant agree with her point that this forced her into the 
overdraft  she always would have had an amount to repay. 
But Im satisfied TSB should have done more to investigate the circumstances of the 
transactions on her account in September 2021. Had they done so its more than likely they 
would have made the decision to refund her at the time. Instead it has taken much longer 
than necessary, which will have increased the frustration. Because of these delays and the level of service shes received TSB havent treated her 
fairly. Im satisfied that its appropriate to award her some compensation. Taking into account 
the full circumstances of the complaint I see £150 would be a reasonable amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc must pay Miss M £150 for the reasons given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman