DRN-2329774
The complaint
Mrs C instructed St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc to surrender her investment 
bond. After speaking with her advisers, she sent instructions cancelling her earlier 
instructions. She has now incurred a tax liability as a result of surrendering the bond.
What happened
Mrs C was a client of an SJP partner firm and paid fees to receive advice. She had an 
investment bond with SJP and wrote to SJPWM on 12 October 2019 to surrender her bond. 
A copy of her letter was sent to her adviser.
Mrs C subsequently spoke with the advisers, who said there could be a better way to 
surrender the bond. Mrs C then wrote to SJPWM with instructions to cancel the full 
surrender of her bond.
By the time the instructions to cancel the surrender of the bond had been received, it was 
too late. The bond had been surrendered and the transaction could not be cancelled.
Mrs C complained to SJP. She provided a brief history of the events leading up to the 
surrender. SJP investigated the complaint. They said they received Mrs Cs letter of 
12 October 2019 and processed the surrender on 16 October. This was the same day that 
Mrs C spoke with her adviser. It was too late to cancel the instructions as the bond had 
already been surrendered. SJP did offer £250 to compensate for the incorrect information 
given to Mrs C about the requirements to surrender the bond.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He explained that there were no 
regulatory guidelines saying that firms should contact clients before acting on instructions to 
surrender. By the time her instructions to cancel the surrender of her bond were received, it 
was too late. The investigator concluded that SJP had not done anything wrong.
Mrs C disagreed. She said her complaint was not about breaching any industry regulations. 
It was explicitly about the SJP process, lack of duty of care as good practice would dictate a 
regulated advisory firm should alert a client to a potential tax liability.
When Mrs C contacted her advisers, she was informed that her letter to surrender the bond 
was not sufficient. She then sent a letter to cancel her instructions. Her advisers said they 
needed to perform the tax calculations and there may be a way to raise the funds without 
surrendering the bond.
Treating Customers Fairly and duty of care would include raising issues about income tax 
implications.
The process SJP followed was different to the one her advisers said was required, as her 
advisers were told the instructions she gave to surrender the bond were not sufficient and 
she would need to complete some forms.
Mrs C also made points about the advice she received. She said that the bond was not 
encashed when she spoke with her advisers. She wanted to know why they didnt adviser 
her to partially or fully encash the bond. Why was she paying for ongoing advice?
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, I have reached the same conclusions as the investigator and 
for broadly the same reasons.
Although Mrs C was a client of an SJP advisory firm, she did not ask for advice before 
surrendering the bond. Her instructions were clear that the bond should be surrendered in 
full. When those instructions were received by SJP they acted on them and surrendered the 
bond. I am satisfied that they were required to act on those instructions.
SJP only required a written instruction to surrender the bond. Although Mrs C discussed the 
issue with her adviser, the instructions not to surrender the bond were not sent until the day 
the bond had been surrendered. By that time, it was too late to cancel the surrender.
SJP could have contacted Mrs C about the potential tax liability. I have given this point 
considerable thought. It is possible that some firms would contact an adviser, or at least 
inform the client that a potential tax liability could arise on the full surrender of a bond. 
However, there are a number of factors that need to be taken into account in calculating any 
tax liability. Not least of these is the clients tax position. In my view, SJP was not required to 
contact Mrs C before acting on her instructions to surrender her bond.
The subsequent discussions between Mrs C, her adviser and SJP appear to have confused 
the position. Mrs C did give instructions to cancel the surrender and make a partial 
surrender. However, I am satisfied that the surrender had already been completed by the 
time those instructions were received. 
SJP offered £250 to compensate for the errors and inconvenience. I think that is appropriate 
in the circumstances of this case.My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Abu Sufian
Ombudsman