DRN-3008861
The complaint
Mr F complains about how BISL Limited administered his motor insurance policy. He said 
this led to higher quotes for his insurance and loss of earnings. 
What happened
Mr Fs car was hit by another whilst it was parked. BISL directed Mr F to its no-fault claims 
service so that Mr F didnt have a claim on his policy. But when Mr F came to renew his 
policy, he found that BISL had recorded a fault claim on its internal database and this 
prevented him renewing though it. Mr F said this also led to higher quotes for premiums and 
he wasnt able to work as he couldnt drive. 
BISL agreed that it had recorded the claim incorrectly, but only on its internal database. It 
corrected this and offered Mr F £50 compensation. But Mr F thought the claim had also been 
recorded incorrectly on external databases. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought BISL 
had corrected its mistake and offered Mr F reasonable compensation for his inconvenience 
in not being able to renew his policy. He didnt see evidence of any losses caused by the 
error. 
Mr F replied that hed been told that a fault claim had been recorded on the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. He asked for an ombudsmans review, so his 
complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The problem arose when Mr F was declined a renewal of his policy through BISL. He then 
found that BISL had recorded a fault claim for the incident. This was clearly wrong as Mr F 
hadnt claimed through his policy and there was no outlay for his insurer to recover. 
When a business makes a mistake, as BISL accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
I think BISL acted promptly to change how it had recorded the incident. And it paid Mr F £50 
compensation for the inconvenience of not being able to renew his policy directly. I think that 
was fair and reasonable to restore Mr Fs position and for the trouble he was put to. 
Mr F said the error led to him receiving quotes from other insurers that were significantly 
higher due to BISLs error. But hes not provided us with any evidence of this. I think quotes 
would be based on the information Mr F provided. From what hes provided, I think his 
renewal quotes werent significantly different to what he had been paying. 
Mr F was able to find alternative cover within four days, before BISL corrected its error. Mr F 
hasnt provided evidence of any loss of earnings due to being without insurance for four 
days. So I cant say that the error had a financial impact on Mr F. 
Mr F said hed been told that a fault claim for the incident had been recorded on CUE. But, 
as our investigator has explained, BISLs internal systems arent connected to CUE. I think 
BISL passed the correct information about the incident to Mr Fs insurer at the time. If the 
insurer recorded this incorrectly on CUE, then Mr F needs to complain to it. I can see that 
our investigator is helping Mr F to do this and has asked Mr F to provide further information 
to support his complaint. 
Mr F was unhappy that BISL sent him its response to his complaint and £50 compensation 
without first discussing this with him. I can understand that this must have been frustrating 
for Mr F. But I cant say that this would have changed the outcome of his complaint or that 
BISL has treated him differently to other customers or unfairly. This is because the complaint 
response was issued during the first lockdown when BISL was issuing all its responses by 
email as it wasnt able to call customers. So I cant say that it did anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman