DRN-3348218
The complaint
Ms B complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services (VWFS) hasnt reduced her mileage allowance on her hire agreement in line with 
her request.
What happened
Ms B entered into a 48 month hire agreement with VWFS in May 2018. The annual mileage 
allowance was 16,000 miles giving a total mileage allowance of 64,000 miles. She asked 
VWFS to reduce the mileage allowance on her agreement to a total mileage of 40,000 but 
says the value put on the mileage reduction was much less than the amount charged for 
excess mileage and also less than the mileage value that could be calculated from the 
quotes she initially received. Ms B wants the mileage reduction at the excess mileage 
charge of 8.376 pence. She says this would result in a refund being due to her of £2,834.24 
(inclusive of the £60 administration fee).
VWFS says that Ms B contacted it in July 2021 as she wasnt happy with the processing of 
her mileage amendment. It says that when a mileage amendment is requested a calculation 
is undertaken considering the residual value and current mileage of the car and a new 
monthly payment is produced. It says this is a value-added service and the customer isnt 
required to accept the new quote. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that VWFS wasnt required to offer a 
reduction or requote for a reduction in the mileage allowance. She noted VWFS comments 
about how the calculation was made and didnt think this was unreasonable. She said Ms B 
had entered a four year agreement with fixed monthly payments for the use of the car which 
is what she had been provided with.  
Ms B didnt agree with out investigators view. She said that due to the lockdown rules she 
couldnt use her car for 425 days of her lease and that she should be refunded for this. She 
said this could be calculated either based on the difference in costs provided to her in the 
initial quotes (5.289 pence per mile); or the additional mileage charge of 8.376 pence per 
mile or a day rate for the time the car wasnt able to be used which she calculated as £9.68 
per day. She said she was at a significant disadvantage due to the lower mileage and that it 
was unfair that VWFS gained from this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Ms B feels she hasnt been treated fairly in response to her request for the 
mileage allowance in her agreement to be reduced. I note the comments she has made 
about her use of the car being reduced due to the lockdown restrictions and that she couldnt 
have predicted this at the time she entered the agreement. However, for me to uphold this 
complaint, I would need to be satisfied that VWFS had done something wrong or not treated 
Ms B fairly or in line with the relevant guidance.
Ms B entered a 48 month hire agreement. This clearly set out the annual and total mileage 
allowance. While Ms B has explained she received other quotes, as she was provided with 
the information she needed at the time of the agreement to make an informed decision I do 
not find I have anything to suggest that she didnt receive the mileage allowance she 
wanted.
I appreciate that due to lockdown Ms B wasnt able to use her car as much as she had 
previously intended. Therefore, I understand why she contacted VWFS to discuss the option 
of a mileage reduction. I note Ms Bs comments about Government guidance and receiving a 
refund for loss of use however in this case, Ms B entered a hire agreement and the car was 
provided to her in line with the terms. While there was a lockdown in place the car was 
available for her use during this period. I have considered the guidance that was put in place 
for customers with motor finance agreements who were experiencing financial difficulties 
arising from the Covid-19 pandemic but these didnt require VWFS to provide a mileage 
reduction. It has been explained that the amendment wasnt part of Ms Bs original 
agreement and I accept that VWFS wasnt required to offer this service.
That said, as VWFS does offer a mileage amendment, it is fair that this would be offered to 
Ms B. VWFS has explained what is involved in the process of generating a new monthly 
rental based on an amended mileage allowance. It has explained that the residual value and 
mileage are taken into account and while I appreciate the comments Ms B has made, I do 
not find I can say this is unreasonable. It isnt my role to say how the quote should be 
generated and as VWFS applied its usual process in generating the quote for Ms B I do not 
find I can say she was treated any differently to any other customer and therefore wasnt 
treated unfairly.
I understand why Ms B feels the value applied to the reduction in mileage should be higher 
and I note her suggestions as to how to calculate this. But, as I have said, VWFS has its own 
process for generating the revised quote and I have nothing to say this wasnt done correctly 
in Ms Bs case and I also note this is a service that it wasnt required to offer. Therefore, I do 
not find I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman