DRN-4170296
The complaint
Miss B complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (trading as LV=
Britannia Rescue) (LV) mishandled a claim on her breakdown insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss B was living with her partner and two young children. Their home was a long way from
the most popular cross-channel ferry ports. They had a seven-seat car, first registered in
2010.
Miss B had a breakdown policy with cover for driving in Europe. LV was responsible for
dealing with any claim.
If the vehicle couldnt be driven or repaired in time for a planned return journey, then the
policy (section G6) covered extra costs of getting Miss B and her family home. It also
covered the repatriation of the vehicle within 15 working days. The policy (section G7) also
covered up to £800.00 for a hire car while Miss B was without her car in the UK.
One Tuesday in August 2022, the family were in the car in Germany, heading home to the
UK. Unfortunately, early that evening, the vehicle broke down on a motorway near a city. So
Miss B contacted LV. Her partner was due back at work on the Thursday.
Much of the complaint is about the acts or omission of LVs continental breakdown service
provider. As I hold LV responsible for such acts or omissions, I may refer to them as LVs.
After Miss B and her family had been more than three hours on the hard shoulder, LV took
the car to a local garage.
LV led Miss B to expect a taxi to take her family to a hotel. But they waited until about 11:00
pm, then walked to a hotel.
On the Wednesday morning, the garage said the car could not be repaired for several days.
LV led Miss B to expect it to repatriate the car. So she and her partner left the car at the
garage with many belongings in it.
LV provided some conflicting information about a hire car. In the late afternoon, LV provided
a hire car. Miss B or her partner drove to a French coastal town where LV had led them to
expect accommodation. But Miss B or her partner had to make their own arrangements for a
hotel.
On the Thursday morning, they returned the hire car and got a taxi to board a cross-channel
ferry as foot passengers.
LV led Miss B to expect a taxi from the ferry terminal in England. But  after waiting in vain 
she paid for a taxi to get to a car hire depot, where LV had made a reservation. But Miss B
ended up paying for that hire car. The family got home after Miss Bs partner missed work
that Thursday. LV gave conflicting information about whether it would repatriate the car.
LV reimbursed Miss B about £600.00 she had spent on hotel, taxi and hire car costs.
In early September 2022, Miss B complained about the service shed received.
In early October 2022, she was still without a car.
By a final response dated late October 2022, LV said it was sending Miss B £300.00 for
roadside delays and £150.00 for the inconvenience and delays experienced after the
breakdown.
LV also said that it would allow Miss B to use the £800.00 towards any travel expenses such
as train tickets.
In late October 2022, LV returned the car.
In mid-November 2022, LV said it had reimbursed the travel expenses.
Miss B asked us to investigate her complaint.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that there
had been delays in repatriation, confusion on the claim and distress and inconvenience. He
recommended that LV should pay Miss B a further £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
The investigator said that LV should pay £50.00 for excessive calls made by Miss B. When
LV asked for clarification, the investigator told LV that it should pay £100.00  in addition to
the £300.00 and £150.00 already paid.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss B 
and to LV on 22 May 2023. I summarise my findings:
I was minded that LV hadnt paid enough compensation for the distress and
inconvenience it caused Miss B particularly throughout September and October 
2022.
Subject to any further information from Miss B or from LV, my provisional decision was to 
uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited (trading as LV= Britannia Rescue) to pay Miss B  in addition to the sums already 
paid  a further £300.00 for distress and inconvenience.
LV accepted the provisional decision.
Miss B hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
So I see no reason to change my view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Where a consumer has complained about a claim under an insurance policy, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service treats it as a complaint against the insurance company that was 
responsible for dealing with the claim.
Where we uphold a complaint about an unfair act or omission, we dont assess 
compensation at a level intended to punish or deter such an unfair act or omission. Rather, 
we look at its impact on the policyholder. This may include financial loss. It may also include 
distress and inconvenience including their distress on behalf of other family members.
In my view, the breakdown and the need to make a claim were bound to cause Miss B
inconvenience and distress.
LV was responsible for keeping Miss B and her family waiting on the hard shoulder. I dont 
doubt that Miss B was worried, particularly about the children. But I have to say that LVs 
payment of £300.00 was higher than I would otherwise have found fair and reasonable 
compensation for this.
LV was also responsible for keeping Miss B and her family waiting at the garage. This led 
Miss B and her partner to make an unsettling walk with the children to the hotel.
LV was also responsible for poor communication on the Wednesday. This led to further 
inconvenience in hanging around, making phone calls and finding accommodation for that 
night.
LV was also responsible for poor communication on the Thursday. This led to further 
inconvenience and delay in starting the final leg of the long journey home.
I cant hold LV responsible for a loss of earnings on the part of Miss Bs partner.
I accept Miss Bs evidence that LVs continental service provider often kept her wating on the 
telephone. I havent seen enough detail to show the cost of wasted calls. But the impact on 
Miss B included wasted time and a feeling that she was powerless to get the car back.
LV was also responsible for incorrect information about repatriating the car and for a delay of 
about six weeks in doing so. The impact of that on Miss B included being without the car for 
much longer than she shouldve been. Indeed in September and October 2022, the impact 
included uncertainty about when, if ever, she would get the car back.
As the policy booklet stated the £800.00 allowance for a UK hire car, I dont hold LV at fault 
for not drawing that to Miss Bs attention. And after LV mentioned it, Miss B and her partner 
preferred to accept LVs offer to reimburse alternative travel expenses. So I dont find that 
they are out of pocket. And, in assessing fair and reasonable compensation for distress and 
inconvenience including loss of use of the car, I take into account that LV has paid those 
travel expenses.
LV considers that I should also take into account that it has paid both hire car and 
accommodation costs, which it says were alternatives. However, I consider that they were 
alternatives under section G3 of the policy, when the car couldnt be repaired on the day of 
the breakdown. Miss B was covered in addition for repatriation of her family (and the car) 
under section G6, when the car couldnt be repaired before her planned return to the UK. 
And in the context of a breakdown with a family so far from home, I consider that the costs of 
repatriation of her family could include both accommodation and transport.Putting things right
Overall, I consider that LV hasnt paid enough compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused Miss B particularly throughout September and October 2022. I find 
it fair and reasonable to direct LV to pay Miss B - in addition to what it has already paid her  
a further £300.00 for distress and inconvenience including loss of use of the car. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (trading as LV= Britannia Rescue) to 
pay Miss B  in addition to the sums already paid  a further £300.00 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman