DRN-1391968
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
late 2001. Mr R and Miss K says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them the PPI. 
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
After carefully considering the complaint, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill 
explain why.
Mr R and Miss K applied for the PPI separately to applying for the mortgage itself  it 
wasnt part and parcel of their mortgage application, and they could have skipped the 
PPI form if they didnt want a policy. They signed and submitted an application 
specifically for PPI, and set up a direct debit to pay for it  the policys cost was not 
part of the mortgages cost. They later contacted Lloyds to make sure their policy had 
been set up in the way they wanted it to be. Ive not seen any wider problems with 
Lloyds sales process from the time, nor any evidence showing that it misled Mr R or 
Miss K here. So I think its most likely that Lloyds made it clear Mr R and Miss K 
didnt have to take out PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time though I can 
understand if they no longer remember doing so after so long.
 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr R and Miss K, so it had to check that the policy 
was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, 
I think that it was. For example, it looks like Mr R and Miss K were eligible for the 
cover and werent affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. The policy 
wouldve paid out on top of Mr R and Miss Ks sick pay and covered them more 
comprehensively, especially when their sick pay ran out or reduced to just a fraction 
of their normal pay. And Mr R and Miss K dont seem to have had any other 
significant cover. Its worth bearing in mind that if Mr R and Miss K fell behind on their 
mortgage payments, they couldve lost their home. So it looks like the PPI couldve 
really been useful for them in protecting their home and providing some peace of 
mind.
 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr R and Miss K about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information 
was likely to have changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr R and Miss K chose to 
take out the policy, which indicates they wanted this type of cover. As I said above, it 
doesnt look like they were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI, 
and it could have really been useful for Mr R and Miss K in case something went 
wrong. The policy was very competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a 
claim, and it was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr R and Miss K could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI 
was likely to have put them off taking it out. 
 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R and Miss K.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R and Miss K, because Lloyds 
got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium), and it 
didnt tell Mr R and Miss K about that at the time. To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the 
amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that is fair in this case.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman