DRN-3423759
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy Acasta European Insurance Company Limited (Acasta) declined 
their claim for accidental damage to their sofas.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out accidental damage cover in September 2017 when they purchased 
their sofas. The policy covered them for five years for accidental damage and staining.
In August 2021 Mr and Mrs R submitted a claim for accidental damage to two four-seater 
sofas, two two-seater sofas, a loveseat and a footstall. They said the damage had occurred 
within the previous two weeks. Acasta arranged for a technician to inspect the furniture on 
14 October 2021.
The technician concluded that the stains to the furniture werent unforeseen accidents, but 
instead was staining that had built up over time. Based on this Acasta declined the claim and 
explained that specific accidental events and stains were covered but the policy didnt cover 
general cleaning or maintenance. They also said that cover is not provided for staining or 
damage, accidental or otherwise, which has occurred or accumulated over a period of time 
or from everyday use.
Mr and Mrs R referred their concerns about the claim to this service. They were unhappy the 
claim had been declined and with the service provided by the technician.
Our investigator didnt think Acasta had acted unfairly in declining the claim so didnt ask 
them to do anything more. They also felt an apology for the service provided by the 
technician was enough to put things right. Mr and Mrs R remain unhappy so it has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Ive considered all the evidence, I havent commented on it all. Instead Ive referred to 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Acasta have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a 
claim unreasonably. They declined the claim as the technician found the damage wasnt a 
one-off incident and the stains were a build up over time.
The terms and conditions of the policy set out what is and isnt covered. It defines accidental 
damage as the sudden and unforeseen damage to the product(s) not otherwise excluded 
under the policy. It defines accidental staining as:
The sudden and unforeseen contact between the product(s) and a substance 
resulting in a stain to the product(s) not otherwise excluded under the policy
It also says:
Please note that this policy provides cover for specific accidental events and 
staining and is not a general cleaning or maintenance contract. As such, cover is 
not provided for staining or damage, accidental or otherwise, which has occurred 
or accumulated over a period of time.
Under what isnt covered it says:
Any claim resulting from the following will not be valid:
Any damage resulting from wear and tear.
The gradual accumulation of stain dye transfer or by accumulated multiple stains or 
by unidentifiable stains.
Mr and Mrs R have explained the damage occurred accidentally by their children during the 
pandemic on different occasions. So, its clear it isnt a one of incident and the stains have 
accumulated over time. This isnt something which is covered by the policy.
Mr and Mrs R said due to the restrictions in place during the pandemic and the need to 
protect their daughter as she was vulnerable, they werent able to have the stains inspected 
until it was safe for her. So they reported multiple stains at the same time.
Acasta said technicians were inspecting claims from June 2020 and Mr and Mrs R only 
reported their claim in August 2021. They also said given the number of stains, Mr and 
Mrs R hadnt taken precautions to safeguard the sofas in line with the policy terms.
Whilst I understand Mr and Mrs Rs position, there isnt any evidence to show when each 
individual stain occurred as they were all reported at the same time. Even if Mr and Mrs R 
werent comfortable having a technician round to inspect the sofa they could have reported 
the incidents within 72 hours of discovering the damage as specified in the terms and 
conditions. This would have at least put Acasta on notice that a claim was being made even 
if they didnt want to peruse it at that time. I note Acastas position for vulnerable people 
during the pandemic was to select an inspection date after self-isolation had expired. But this 
still required a claim to be registered.
By doing this and providing photos, Acasta would have had an idea if a more urgent 
assessment was needed. As the longer a stain is there, the harder it can be to remove. 
Additionally, it would have been clearer if each stain was related to an individual incident as 
opposed to accumulation over time. Based on the technicians findings that the stains 
werent a one-off incident and were an accumulation over time I dont think Acasta have 
been unfair in declining the claim.
The general terms and conditions of the policy state:
You and your family must take all reasonable precautions to safeguard the 
product and to avoid loss or damage to it. This includes, but is not limited to, 
ensuring that the product is maintained in accordance with the manufacturers 
instructions. If you fail to do so any claim you make may be rejected by the 
administrator.
I understand that accidents happen, especially when children are around. However, I dont 
think its unreasonable that Acasta have relied on this term to support the decline of the 
claim. I say this given the number of stains on multiple items of furniture at a time when Mr and Mrs R were unable to have the sofas inspected. When an accident occurs, it isnt 
unreasonable for Acasta to expect a policy holder to take extra care that it doesnt happen 
again. But in this case the stains were caused by separate similar incidences. As Mr and 
Mrs R had already had stains they needed to claim for it isnt unreasonable for Acasta to 
expect extra precaution.
Im aware Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with comments made by the technician upon his visit 
to their home. I understand why Mr and Mrs R were offended by this but Acasta has 
acknowledged this, escalated it internally and apologised which I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Overall, Im satisfied Acasta have declined the claim fairly in line with the terms and 
condition of the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman