DRN-4107433
The complaint
Ms F complains that Countrywide Principal Services Limited (Countrywide) failed to ensure 
her buildings contents insurance policy met her needs, resulting in a declined claim.
Ms F is represented by her father in her complaint. But I will refer to Ms F throughout my
decision for ease of reading.
What happened
Ms F moved back to her property after some renovations. Her property was insured through
Countrywide acting as her broker and administrator. She says she called in July 2021 to
ensure that her high value bike was covered in addition to some other bikes that she owned.
Ms F says Countrywide said the bike was covered under high value items worth under
£2,000. The other bikes were also covered whilst in her garage and that separate cover was
only necessary when the bikes were outside, for example when they were being used.
The policy was due to renew in September 2021. Countrywide wrote to Ms F at the
beginning of August 2021 to notify her of some changes to the policy. Ms F subsequently
made a claim in February 2022 when bikes were stolen from her garage. The claim was
declined as Countrywide says there was no cover under Ms Fs policy for her loss. It pointed
to the policy terms that say bikes can be covered as an option, but this hadnt been chosen
by Ms F.
Ms F complained to Countrywide. She thought it had mis-sold her the policy as it was aware
she needed cover for her bikes. Country says Ms F was made aware prior to the policy
renewing that some changes had been made to her cover. It says had she read the
information it sent she would know that her bikes were no longer covered but that optional
bike cover was available.
Countrywide says information was set out in the Notification of Change document it sent Ms
F. As well as in the Insurance Document Information Product (IPID) document that
accompanied its letter in August 2021. As it had informed Ms F of the changes, and received
no contact from her, Countrywide didnt think it had acted unfairly.
Ms F didnt agree and contacted our service. Our investigator upheld her complaint. He says
Countrywide wasnt able to provide the call recording from July 2021. This is when Ms F
says she discussed cover for her bikes. However, he could see from the February 2022
notes that there was a record of Ms Fs enquiry about cover for her bikes from July 2021.
Our investigator acknowledges that Countrywide sent Ms F a letter notifying her of changes
to her policy. But he says this was only sent a couple of weeks after she had discussed her
needs at length with the business. He says Countrywide provided Ms F with a policy that
didnt meet her needs, and that the relevant information was only provided on page eight of
a 12-page document. He didnt think Countrywide had done enough to ensure Ms Fs needs
were met and it should arrange for reconsideration of the claim plus £150 compensation and
removal of any cancellation markers.
Countrywide didnt agree with this outcome. It says Ms F was made aware of the changes
and advised to check if the policy still met her needs. Because of this it asked for an
ombudsman to consider her complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2023 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Ms Fs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to not uphold Ms Fs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her
but Ill explain why I think my decision is fair.
As our investigator confirmed, Countrywide doesnt have a call recording from the time Ms F
says she made contact in July 2021. In its absence Ive looked at what other evidence there
is to show what discussions took place around this time.
In her complaint Ms F says that when she called Countrywide its agent explained her most
valuable bike was covered under high value items of value £2,000 and below. In addition to
this she was told her mountain bikes and a work bike were covered by the policy, whilst they
were in her garage. Ms F says she was assured by the agent that her bikes were covered
under her policy.
Ms F has supplied an itemised phone bill that shows she made a call to Countrywide on 9
July 2021. This call lasted for around 16 and a half minutes.
Ive also read the records provided by Countrywide. It refers to the old system notes prior to
the policy being migrated to a new system. It says there is a record indicating Ms F had
called in with regards to bike cover.
Based on this evidence its clear Ms F did call Countrywide in July 2021. I have no reason to
disbelieve her testimony that the purpose of this call was to ensure cover was in place for
her bikes. Countrywide explains that at the time of the call, this cover would have been
included automatically. So, Im satisfied bike cover was discussed in July 2021, and
Countrywides agent most likely told Ms F she was covered.
Ive read Countrywides letter dated at the beginning of August 2021. Ms F doesnt dispute
that she received this letter. Towards the top of the letter, it says Important Changes 
Change of Insurance Policy. It explains Ms Fs current policy will lapse at renewal, but cover
will continue under its new insurance product. The letter says:
We would like to draw your attention to the enclosed Notification Of Change document
which highlights the changes we have made to your policy. Please note that as the policy is
changing, some of the cover, limits, exclusions and excesses may also change. The
enclosed Notification of Change document highlights any differences in cover.
The full documents for your new Homeowner insurance policy are enclosed. Your
documents provide a summary of the cover you have selected previously (including any
additional optional covers) and a breakdown of your premium in relation to each section of
cover.And:
Please ensure that you read these documents carefully and check this policy still meets
your needs
Also:
Assumptions
To enable us to move you to your new policy, your renewal pack includes a Statement of
Fact document. We have populated the information about you and your property on this
document using the information we hold on file for you, but where this information was
unknown, we have made some assumptions. Please review the enclosed Statement of Fact
and contact us immediately on [telephone number] if any details need to be updated.
Statement of Demands and Needs This product is designed to meet the demands and
needs of a Homeowner. Please refer to the enclosed document titled 'Your Demands and
Needs', which gives details of your personal demands and needs and the cover options you
have chosen to meet them.
The letter concludes with the following message:
We hope that these documents clearly explain these changes and what they mean for you.
If any details need to be changed or you wish to discuss your policy to ensure that you are
adequately covered, please do not hesitate in contacting our customer service team as
above.
The Demands and Needs statement says, you chose the following cover options: Pedal
cycles  Not included. At the end of the statement it says, The cover youve chosen will
meet the needs you told us about.
With Countrywides letter it provided a Notification of Change document. On page three of
this document it says, Pedal cycles  New Section  We have now included a definition for
pedal cycles. Please refer to page 8 of your policy booklet for further information. Page
eight of the document says:
Pedal Cycles From renewal, cover for pedal cycles inside and outside the home is excluded
and is now an optional additional cover. Please call us for a quote if you wish to add pedal
cycle cover to your policy.
In its submission to our service Countrywide has included the relevant section of the IPID it
supplied to Ms F in August 2021. This document shows the key features and exclusions of
the policy and is to be read in conjunction with the policy document. It says:
What is not Insured?
Loss or damage to pedal cycles unless the additional pedal cycle cover is chosen.
Ive thought carefully about whether Ms F should reasonably have known that her policy, due
to commence in September 2021, didnt provide cover for her bikes. Having done so, I think
she reasonably ought to have known this.
Countrywides letter is clear that it relates to important changes to Ms Fs policy. It says the
changes include some of the cover provided under the policy. It was made clear Ms F shouldcheck the information provided to ensure the policy still met her needs.
The IPID on page two states there is no cover for pedal cycles unless the additional cover is
chosen. The Demands and Needs statement says pedal cycle cover has not been
included. The Notification of Change document also highlights the removal of the automatic
cover for pedal cycles and the need to call Countrywide to add pedal cycle cover.
This information was sent to Ms F the month after her phone call to Countrywide, and before
the policy renewed in September 2021. This was the new insurance product with its
amended cover. Had Ms F read the letter and the documents that were sent to her, I think a
reasonable person would be aware that cover wasnt in place for the bikes Ms F later
claimed for.
Ms F highlights that the Demands and Needs statement says, The cover youve chosen will
meet the needs you told us about. I acknowledge the point she makes. But directly above
this on the demands and needs statement it confirms pedal cycle cover is not included.
At the time Ms F called Countrywide, I think its been shown her bikes were covered
automatically without the need to select optional pedal cycle cover. So, the information its
agent provided was correct. I understand her argument that this conversation took place only
a few weeks prior to the notification letter she received. But I think there was an onus on her
to read this information and check that the new policy met her needs.
I cant see that this was an advised sale. Countrywide provided Ms F with all the relevant
information she needed so that she could make an informed choice as to whether the policy
was right for her. When she called in July 2021 the existing policy included cover for her
bikes, so she was informed correctly about this. She was then informed a month prior to the
policy renewing that pedal cycle cover wouldnt be included in the new policy. It was
explained that this was available as an option, and she should contact Countrywide if she
wanted to discuss this.
Im sorry that Ms F suffered a loss that isnt covered under her insurance policy. But the
cover Countrywide chooses to provide is a decision for it to make. It must ensure that its
customers are provided with clear information so they can make an informed decision. In this
case Ms F was provided with clear information about what cover her new policy provided. I
cant reasonably say that Countrywide is at fault because Ms F didnt read this information.
So, I cant fairly ask it to do anymore.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Countrywide didnt respond with any further comments or information for me to consider.
Ms F responded at length with comments annotated to my provisional decision. Ive read her 
response in full. I dont intend to set out all that she has said here. Ms F acknowledges that 
some of the information she has responded with has already been considered. But I will 
comment on the relevant points raised.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In her response Ms F refers to a definition of fair as meaning without bias and 
reasonable meaning appropriate to the circumstances. I note her comments that a common understanding of these concepts would be useful. I dont disagree with these 
definitions. When looking at Ms Fs complaint my focus was on reaching an outcome taking 
all the evidence, testimony, and circumstances into consideration. I did so based on what I 
judged to be fair and reasonable, which meets with the definition Ms F provided of without 
bias and appropriate to the circumstances.  
Ms F says the information from Countrywide states, The cover youve chosen will meet [sic] 
needs you told us about. She says this was set out in bold. She believed from this that the 
bikes were covered as she had told Countrywide she needed this. Ms F says our service 
initially decided in favour of her complaint. This means an informed neutral person didnt 
think she had acted unreasonably. 
I acknowledge what Ms F says. My provisional decision differs from the outcome our 
investigator thought was reasonable. But this doesnt persuade me that I should change my 
decision in favour of Ms F. As I set out in my provisional decision, Ms F was sent a number 
of clear documents prior to her policy renewing clearly setting out a change in cover. It told 
her that her bicycles werent covered, and she must contact countrywide if she wanted to 
change this. 
Ms F says Countrywide did the bare minimum to inform her of the change in cover for her 
renewing policy. I acknowledge what she says, but Countrywide sent several documents that 
contained clear information showing cover for bicycles wasnt included. It was made clear 
this information was important and should be read. Had Ms F done so I think she reasonably 
wouldve been aware to contact Countrywide before her new policy commenced to add this 
cover.
I note Ms Fs comments that she was made aware of the changes in August 2021 not 
earlier. I dont disagree. But this contact contained clear information about the policy 
changes with instructions on how to proceed if this wasnt suitable. 
Ms F says its not fair or logical for me to say that she was most likely told that her bicycles 
were covered when there is no real evidence they were not. 
I acknowledge what Ms F says but I dont think is of relevance. I concluded Ms F was most 
likely told she was covered for her bicycles when she contacted Countrywide in July 2021. 
There is no call recording. But based on the evidence and circumstances described I think 
its reasonable to conclude it probably did happen. Confirming this with any more certainty 
isnt possible based on the evidence, nor would it change my decision. 
Ms F says the letter sent by Countrywide in August 2021 explains there will be no break in 
insurance cover. She says this is ambiguous and could mean the policy continues as before. 
Although I note what Ms F says  the information sent to her clearly confirmed bicycle cover 
wasnt included in the new policy. 
Ms F says a reference number on the back page of the policy booklet suggests Countrywide 
was aware of the changes prior to her conversation in July 2021. She says its reasonable to 
expect a warning to have been given during her phone call, considering her request for 
bicycle cover at this time. 
I acknowledge what Ms F says. However, Countrywides agent gave correct information 
regarding the policy at the time of the call. Information regarding the changes were sent prior 
to the new policy commencing, which gave sufficient notice of the cover included under the 
new policy. In her submissions Ms F says I implied in my provisional decision that she hadnt read the 
documents sent to her by Countrywide. She says some reading was done but she had been 
told during her call in July 2021 that cover for her bicycles was included, which she relied on.  
Ive thought about what Ms F says here. But the fact remains she was sent clear information 
telling her bicycle cover was no longer included under her policy. It was made clear in this 
documentation that policy changes had been made and it was important for Ms F to read this 
information in full. 
Ms F queried the meaning of advised sale. In my provisional decision I said Countrywide 
provided her with the information she needed to make an informed decision. An advised sale 
is where an adviser assesses what is needed tailoring this according to the persons 
needs. But here Ms F was the decision maker based on information provided by 
Countrywide. It was her responsibility to read this information and ensure suitable cover was 
provided. 
Ive considered Ms Fs further comments in detail and given careful thought as to whether 
my original findings were fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her complaint. Im 
sorry she has suffered a loss, and I understand that this must be upsetting for her. But I 
havent seen reason to change my decision based on the further comments shes made. 
Because of this my provisional decision will now become my final decision.         
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman