DRN-2962122
The complaint
Mr R complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) doesnt provide a 
specific bereavement clause within his hire purchase agreement. He has been unable to 
clarify what would happen in this event and as such believes the contract to be unfair.
What happened
Mr R took out a hire purchase agreement for a BMW in May 2017. The car cost £44,000 and 
the agreement was for a period of four years.
Mr R had cause to ask BMWFS about any bereavement clause in the agreement as he was 
unable to find a specific reference. He asked what would happen in these circumstances and 
was directed to the voluntary termination clause (VT). He says he was led to believe this 
would automatically trigger upon death.
Mr R says he felt this meant the agreement was unfair and misleading. If a customer were to 
pass away only a short time into an agreement, it could result in BMWFS receiving more 
than the total amount payable. This is because the VT clause means it would get 50% of the 
amount payable and the asset itself which wouldnt have suffered much depreciation.
He says this is materially unfair as death is not a voluntary act and there should be a clause 
to specify no more than the total amount payable would be recovered in such an event.
BMW have said that in order to voluntary terminate (VT), 50% of the total amount payable 
must be reached. Theyve said if a customer were to pass away before this point had been 
reached, the estate would be liable for the shortfall if they wanted to VT the agreement. 
Theyve also said the vehicle would have to be handed back.
Mr R was disappointed with BMWFS response and so he referred the matter to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr R. Although he could understand Mr Rs position, he 
explained he couldnt direct a business on what should be included within its business 
agreements. He explained the remit of this service is to look to see if a business has made 
an error and if it has to put matters right. 
He thought there had been a misunderstanding initially and that BMWFS had thought the 
query was regarding VT. But he found BMWFS had explained the options that would be 
available to the executors of an estate in the event of a customers death and so he didnt 
ask it to do anything further.
Mr R disagreed. He still doesnt feel there is any clarity on this matter, and he asks for an 
ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with the investigators view and for broadly the same 
reasons. I appreciate this will disappoint Mr R, Ill explain why.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
I have listened to all the telephone calls available on this file. Im sorry to hear Mr R has 
suffered ill health recently and I hope he makes a full recovery. I can well understand why 
this has focussed his attention on specific clauses within his hire purchase agreement. I can 
also empathise with his desire to seek absolute clarity on what would happen in these 
circumstances and I dont find that an unreasonable request.
That said, I have no power to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the 
role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual 
complaints between a consumer and a business. Should we decide that something has gone 
wrong we would ask the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is 
possible, in the position they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think it took BMWFS a little while to understand what Mr R was seeking to clarify. I 
appreciate he wouldnt want to necessarily share personal information, but once it 
understood the position, I can see it did clarify the procedure in the event of a bereavement.
BMWFS has a specific department to work with families and executors of the estates of any 
client who has sadly passed away. It said in such circumstances, after being notified and 
receiving the appropriate documentation it would offer a number of options to the families or 
executors of the estate. These include Voluntary termination, settling the finance by selling 
the car privately, part exchanging the car and the finance can be transferred to someone 
else in the family subject to a credit check being carried out.
The reason there isnt a specific cause is because each circumstance will be unique to the 
individual and equally the right option for each family will be different. BMWFS has assured 
this service that the options are properly discussed with the executors and the implications 
for the estate discussed in detail. No decisions are made automatically without discussion.
From what Ive seen from the available information, BMWFS does have specific provision in 
these circumstances but not a specific clause within the contract and as I have already said I 
cant ask it to change its agreements or provision as that is a matter for the regulator and so 
U cant say it has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its dealings with Mr R.I understand Mr Rs concerns that if in theory if a client should pass away there is a 
possibility that BMWFS could get back more than the total amount payable under the 
agreement. What I can say, if indeed it offers any reassurance at all to Mr R, is that in these 
circumstances the executors act for the deceased person. 
If the executors feel the estate has been unfairly treated, they are entitled to bring a 
complaint to this service on behalf of the consumer and seek redress in these 
circumstances.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, but Im unable to uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman