DRN-4188571
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about delays by Zurich Assurance Ltd in processing and 
settling their critical illness claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had two policies providing life and critical illness cover with Zurich. In February 
2022, Mr H was sadly diagnosed with terminal cancer. So they contacted Zurich to make a 
claim on the critical illness part of the policies.
Zurich sent Mr and Mrs H claims forms to complete. Mr and Mrs H returned these by 
recorded delivery at the end of March. They didnt hear anything from Zurich. So, in mid- 
May, Mrs H called them to find out what was happening.
Zurich told Mrs H theyd not received any paperwork from her. After Mrs H provided tracking 
information, Zurich confirmed theyd received the documents, but had lost them. They asked 
Mrs H to re-submit the claim  which she did the following day.
A further six weeks passed, during which Mrs H says she called for an update and was told 
the claim was being reviewed. At the end of the six weeks, Mrs H called Zurich again. This 
time, she was told the claim hadnt been looked at. So Mrs H made a complaint.
In their response to the complaint, Zurich apologised for the delays Mr and Mrs H had 
encountered and arranged to make a payment of £200 to them as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr and Mrs H werent satisfied with Zurichs response and brought their complaint to our 
service. At this point, they were unhappy they were still experiencing delays. In mid- 
September  at about the same time the complaint was allocated to our investigator  Zurich 
settled the claim, paying Mr and Mrs H £203,140.14, as well as refunding premiums totalling 
£712.96.
Our investigator considered the complaint and initially concluded £200 wasnt sufficient to 
recognise Zurichs shortcomings in handling the claim. Zurich offered a further £100, which 
the investigator thought was fair. She noted Zurich had refunded the premiums Mr and     
Mrs H had had to pay while the claim was processed.
The investigator noted Mr and Mrs Hs testimony that theyd used the settlement to redeem 
their mortgage and the delay meant theyd had to make additional monthly payments. But 
she said those payments had reduced the overall amount needed to redeem the mortgage 
so she couldnt say Mr and Mrs H had been negatively impacted by this.
I reached a different conclusion from our investigator.  So I made a provisional decision.  I 
calculated it took Zurich 24 weeks and two days from receipt of Mr and Mrs Hs claim for it to 
be settled.  I thought that was too long.  I noted that Zurich needed time to process the claim.  
But I thought there was delay on their part for about 15 of the 24 week period.  So I 
provisionally decided they should pay Mr and Mrs H simple interest on the settlement figure 
(£203,140.14), calculated at the rate of 8% per annum, for 15 weeks  as well as paying a 
total of £300 compensation.
Mr and Mrs H agreed with my provisional decision.  Zurich accepted they had delayed  but 
for only 9 weeks, rather than the 15 Id calculated in my provisional decision.  The 
complaints now been passed back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint for the reasons I outlined in my 
provisional decision and which are summarised below.
As I said in my provisional decision, the claim would have taken a number of weeks, even if 
Zurich hadnt delayed at any point.  And, to be fair to them, I calculated the 24 weeks not 
from the date they sent Mr and Mrs H a claim form, but from the date Mrs H demonstrated it 
was received by Zurich.  Nor did I include in the 15 weeks any period where Zurich couldnt 
progress the claim because they were waiting for a third party to deal with something.
In response to my provisional decision, Zurich provided an alternative calculation for the 
delay  which they say amounts to 61 days, or just under nine weeks.  However, Im not 
persuaded their figures are accurate.  
Firstly, theyve counted working  rather than calendar  days.  Sixty one working days 
equates to just over 12 weeks.  And theyve said that the delay between 29 March and 12 
May was only ten working days and the delay between 28 June and 12 July is three working 
days.  Even accepting the five working day turnaround Zurich has included, and allowing for 
bank holidays, these figures are clearly wrong.  
So Im satisfied that my calculation of 15 weeks delay in this case is accurate.  And, as I 
said in my provisional decision, I dont think that delay was fair.
Putting things right
I explained in my provisional decision that, in cases where theres a delay in settling a claim, 
our usual approach is that a business should pay interest on the settlement from the time it 
should have been paid, until it is. The interest rate we apply is 8% per annum (simple).
Ive explained above why I think they delayed for about 15 weeks.  So I think its fair to direct 
Zurich to calculate and pay Mr and Mrs H interest on the settlement figure (£203,140.14) for 
the 15 weeks of delay Ive calculated.
In respect of distress and inconvenience, Zurich have paid £200.  Our investigator said they 
should pay a further £100, to bring the compensation up to a total of £300.
I provisionally decided that was a fair amount to recognise Mr and Mrs Hs undoubted 
distress and inconvenience.  Mr and Mrs H accepted my provisional decision without 
commenting on this part.  Zurich indicated they were happy to pay it.  So, on the basis 
neither party has made any comment which persuades me that figure was wrong thats what 
I think Zurich should do.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about Zurich 
Assurance Ltd and to direct Zurich to pay them:15 weeks simple interest on the settlement of £203,140.14, calculated at the rate of 
8% per annum;
£100 compensation, in addition to the £200 theyve already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman