DRN-3013307
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr L bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Hitachi, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr L into believing 
that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Ls complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr L, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the 
panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. Hitachi disagreed so the case 
was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hitachi is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr L was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
Ive thought about everything Hitachi has said - including what it said about the contract 
saying there could be a potential shortfall between the benefits and the loan repayments, 
and that Mr L didnt complain about this in 2017 when he complained about a separate 
issue. But these points dont change my decision. 
In the context of Mr L having been told the solar panels would be self-funding I dont think 
that the wording on the contract is enough to contradict that. The contract says there could 
be a shortfall depending on usage, generation, inflation and RPI. But the actual position at 
the time of sale was that the estimated benefits in the first year (between £920 and £1,104) 
would not cover the loan repayments (£1,267). So, the actual position was that there almost 
certainly would be a shortfall. And there is nothing to suggest that Mr L was clearly told this 
or given clear information that showed this, such that he ought to have realised the solar 
panels would not be self-funding.
Mr L has said that in 2017 he didnt realise he could complaint to Hitachi about 
misrepresentation. He only realised this later, after the installer had gone out of business. In 
any case, in my opinion Mr L was not out of time or otherwise barred from making the 
complaint when he did so. 
So, I think that Hitachi didnt treat Mr L fairly and he lost out because of what Hitachi did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ls complaint for Hitachi to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr L from the solar panels 
over a ten-year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, 
and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr L is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Hitachi needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr L by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Hitachi to 
restructure Mr Ls loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr L in a position where the solar 
panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr L have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr L and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr L and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr L accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr L has settled the loan, Hitachi should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr L has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Hitachi and Hitachi should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr L paid each month with the Hitachi loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr L receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr L paid with the refinanced loan.4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr L receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr L the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he wouldve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr L first 
contacted Hitachi that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Hitachi should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman