DRN-1852533
 
The complaint
This complaint is about an Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited equity release mortgage that 
was held by Mrs B. The only part of the complaint that Im dealing with here relates to the 
fact Aviva was unable to provide a copy of an occupiers form signed by Mrs Bs partner.
Mrs Bs daughter  Mrs C  holds Power of Attorney over her mothers affairs, and Mrs C 
has appointed a third-party representative to bring this complaint on her behalf. For ease of 
reading Ill simply refer to Mrs B and Mrs C in this decision, but that should be taken to mean 
the third-party representative where appropriate.
What happened
Mrs B took this mortgage out in 2004. It was recorded on the fact find and other 
documentation completed by the adviser that Mrs Bs partner lived in the property and 
therefore would be signing an occupiers form.
The occupiers form was sent to Mrs Bs solicitor so it could be completed, and Mrs Bs 
partner could sign it. As the completed and signed form wasnt received back, Avivas 
solicitor wrote to Mrs Bs solicitor about it. Mrs Bs solicitor replied stating there were no non-
owning occupiers living at the property.
When Mrs B went into care in 2018 Mrs C contacted Aviva to ask for a copy of the form so 
she could force Mrs Bs partner to leave the property. Aviva initially said there had been a 
form, but it couldnt find it. Aviva later confirmed there never had been a form and apologised 
for the mis-information. It offered Mrs C £300 compensation.
Our investigator said Aviva couldnt provide a copy of the form as it never existed. Mrs C 
didnt agree  saying all the paperwork completed by the adviser indicated Mrs Bs partner 
was living in the property. Mrs C asked that it be passed to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. I trust Mrs C wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal 
dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. As our investigator has explained, the only issue Im able to consider here 
is that relating to the occupiers form.
Given the passage of time, its not possible to say with certainty exactly what happened. But 
what I can see is Aviva sent the occupiers form to Mrs Bs solicitor, and Avivas solicitor 
followed it up with Mrs Bs solicitor when it wasnt received back.
Whilst the adviser recorded Mrs Bs partner lived in the property Aviva had to rely on the 
information it received from the legal representatives. Mrs Bs solicitor clearly and irrefutably 
said  there are no Non-Owning Occupiers, living at the property. If that wasnt true, then 
thats something Mrs C will need to take up with her mothers solicitor. Aviva had no way of 
knowing that Mrs Bs partner hadnt moved out of the property as that unequivocal statement 
from Mrs Bs solicitor was after the adviser had recorded the partner lived there. 
Relationships end, people move house. Aviva simply had no responsibility to check the 
information it was given by Mrs Bs solicitor.
Having considered everything Im satisfied there never was a completed occupiers form and 
thats because Mrs Bs solicitor told Avivas solicitor that Mrs B was the only resident in the 
property. I cant hold Aviva liable for that, however much Mrs C may want me to.
Aviva offered Mrs C £300 compensation for its mistake in originally saying there was an 
occupiers form. I think, in the circumstances, that offer put forward by Aviva is more than 
fair. I leave it to Mrs C to decide if  on reflection  she now wants to contact Aviva to accept 
that (if she hasnt already done so).
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint as I find the compensation already offered by Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I make no other order or 
award. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman