DRN-3644556
The complaint
Mr M and Miss M complain that Target Servicing Limited, the administrator of their shared 
equity help to buy loan, has asked them to pay back a regular fee it failed to collect.
What happened
Mr M and Miss M purchased a property with the assistance of a shared equity loan under the 
help to buy scheme in May 2017. The lender of their shared equity loan is unregulated, but 
the loan is administered on the lenders behalf by Target Servicing Limited. In administering 
the loan Target is a regulated firm carrying on the regulated activity of debt administration. 
Target is therefore responsible for answering this complaint  including about whether and 
how it has collected sums due under the loan.
It's one of the terms of the loan that a £1 monthly administration fee is payable from the start 
of the loan onwards. 
However, Target failed to collect this fee from Mr M and Miss M for the first four years. Its 
now told them they need to pay the missed fees. Mr M and Miss M dont think its fair they 
should have to pay the fees now when it was Targets fault that it failed to collect them when 
they were due.
Target accepts that it made a mistake in failing to collect the fees each month. It said that Mr 
M and Miss M completed a direct debit mandate when taking out their loan, but Target failed 
to set the direct debit up on its systems and so did not collect the fee. But it says that the 
fees are due under the terms and conditions, and so Mr M and Miss M need to make up the 
missing fees. It was ultimately their responsibility to ensure that they paid sums due under 
the terms of their loan.
Our investigator didnt think it was fair for Target to collect the outstanding fees from before it 
made Mr M and Miss M aware of the problem, so Target asked for an ombudsman to make 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms and conditions of the shared equity loan, a monthly administration fee of £1 
is payable. The problem in this case is that it was not paid.
Target says that its Mr M and Miss Ms responsibility to ensure that they pay what is due 
under the loan agreement. And thats true  they have an obligation to keep to the terms of 
the agreement, including making payment.
But Ive not seen any evidence that Mr M and Miss have tried to avoid their responsibilities, 
or have been unable to make the payment when it fell due. 
Ive seen the direct debit mandate Mr M and Miss M signed in 2017, and which was passed 
to Target. 
Im satisfied that in this case, Mr M and Miss M were able to make the payment had they 
been asked to do so, or had it been collected via the direct debit.
As the administrator managing this loan on behalf of the lender, and carrying out the lenders 
obligations and exercising its rights, it falls to Target to ensure that payments are collected 
as appropriate. But in this case, it failed to do so because it didnt set the direct debit up on 
its systems and didnt use it to collect the payments.
A shared equity loan is a form of mortgage agreement. Our approach to mortgage 
underfunding is well established and well known, and set out on our website. Underfunding 
is where a lender (or, as the case may be, an administrator acting on a lenders behalf) fails 
to manage a mortgage appropriately and fails to collect the correct payments, mis-calculates 
the loan, sets it up on the wrong basis  or otherwise puts the customer in a position where 
their balance is higher than it ought to be or where there is a shortfall in payments collected.
And where underfunding has happened, and it is the fault of the lender (or administrator), its 
generally not fair or reasonable to expect the customer to have to make up the shortfall to 
put right the mistake. Unless theres evidence the customer knew of the mistake and 
decided to sit back and benefit from it, the lender  or administrator  is responsible for the 
consequences of its failure.
As I say, our approach in this area is well established and well known. Id therefore expect 
Target to have taken note of that in how its dealt with this situation. But it hasnt done so  
its insisted that Mr M and Miss M make up the missed payments.
Im satisfied that theres a shortfall on the payments because of Targets mistake in not 
collecting a payment Mr M and Miss M were able to make and would have been willing to 
make had it done so. The fact that the fee is a very small one is irrelevant to the underlying 
principle here. But that fact makes it more likely that Mr M and Miss M didnt notice and 
didnt give any thought to the fact that it wasnt being collected. 
Putting things right
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that its not fair and reasonable to expect Mr M and 
Miss M to make up the shortfall now. If the lender will not write the uncollected fees off, then 
it is for Target not Mr M and Miss M to make up the shortfall.
However, once Target made Mr M and Miss M aware of the problem and asked them to 
begin making payment, it then becomes fair and reasonable to expect them to do so. Target 
did this in April 2021. And so Mr M and Miss M will need to make arrangements to pay the 
fees from May 2021 onwards, if they havent already done so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Target 
Servicing Limited not to collect the monthly administration fees prior to May 2021  so if the 
lender will not write those fees off, Target Servicing Limited will need to pay those fees itself 
rather than collect them from Mr M and Miss M. But Target Servicing Limited may collect the 
fees that fall due from May 2021 onwards.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman