DRN-3028830
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr C and Mrs F say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr C and 
Mrs Fs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that because YBS told 
us that the commission for Mr C and Mrs Fs PPI was less than 50% of what they paid, YBS 
didnt need to pay back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
Mr C and Mrs Fs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr C and Mrs Fs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr C and 
Mrs Fs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided YBS didnt need to tell Mr C and 
Mrs F about the commission it received - so YBS doesnt need to pay back any of the 
commission Mr C and Mrs F paid for the PPI. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these 
conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think YBS made it clear that Mr C and Mrs F didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because YBS has provided some of the key pieces of 
documentation from the time of the sale, including Mr C and Mrs Fs mortgage 
application. Looking at this I can see there is a section of the form, which gave a broad 
outline of the nature of the cover and said that if Mr C and Mrs F wanted to take the 
policy out they needed to complete a separate PPI application form. And I can see this is 
what Mr C and Mrs F did. 
Mr C and Mrs F completed the form choosing the amount of monthly benefit they 
required, the benefit period and the waiting or excess period. They also signed the 
application to authorise the premiums to be taken from their bank account.
So taking everything into account I think Mr C and Mrs F chose to take out PPI and likely 
did so without undue pressure.
YBS says this was a non-advised sale  it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C and Mrs F. 
But I disagree. I say this because YBS has provided an insurance needs form completed 
at the time of the sale, which says to the staff member that it should be completed to 
...help identify and establish the mortgage payment insurance needs of the member. 
And in the PPI section of the form (the form also established needs for property 
insurance and life assurance) the staff member has handwritten that they recommended 
MRC[mortgage repayment cover]...
Because of the language used here, this suggests to me, more likely than not, that YBS 
did advise and recommend Mr C and Mrs F take out PPI.  This means it had to check 
that the PPI was right for them. But in any event this doesnt affect the outcome of the 
complaint  this is because the evidence about Mr C and Mrs Fs circumstances at the 
time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. 
For example Mr C as the sole policyholder was eligible for the cover and although the 
evidence from the time indicates Mr C was entitled to some sick pay, given the policy 
would pay out for longer than his full sick pay would have lasted and it was protecting 
their joint mortgage payments and ultimately their home, I think they still had a need for 
cover. 
Mr C told us he was self-employed at the time  but the mortgage application says 
otherwise. And I think the documentation from the time is a more accurate reflection of 
Mr Cs employment circumstances. As such I dont think there was anything about Mr 
Cs employment or occupation which would have made it difficult for them to claim. And 
Mr C hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions that could affect his ability 
to claim. There were no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems - so I dont think it was wrong for YBS to have recommended PPI.
While a lot of the key information about the cover was included on the documentation at 
or around the time of the sale  for example the benefit amount, the benefit period, the 
excess period  and the cost - I accept its possible some of the information YBS gave Mr 
C and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they 
chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for Mr C and Mrs F as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what 
they reasonably thought they were buying from the information they were given. The 
policy was free for the first six months,  but after that it looks like it was affordable. So it 
seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I 
dont think Mr C and Mrs F would have declined the cover had YBS done anything more.Overall, I consider that Mr C and Mrs F would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr C and Mrs Fs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant YBS should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr C and Mrs Fs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr C and Mrs Fs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr C and Mrs Fs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C and Mrs F.
Id like to add here that, for the sake of clarity Mr C and Mrs F also took out a PPI policy later 
on in 2002. But this policy was cancelled during the six-month free cover period  so Mr C 
and Mrs F didnt pay anything towards the cover. As such theres nothing for me to consider 
here. This is because even if I upheld a complaint about this policy, theres nothing owed to 
them  Mr C and Mrs F havent lost out.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided YBS didnt need to disclose the commission it received, so YBS 
doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr C and Mrs F paid. My reasons are set 
out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mr C and Mrs Fs representative has made a number of representations about this part of 
the complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary they have said Mr C and Mrs F should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: YBS failed to tell Mr C and Mrs F about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipBecause they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr C and Mrs F 
wouldnt have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they 
should receive a refund of all the premiums they paid.
But in this case, YBS has told us that the commission for Mr C and Mrs Fs PPI was less 
than half of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how YBS has worked this out 
and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr C and Mrs Fs case 
was less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think YBS needed to tell Mr C and Mrs F about the commission. So it follows that I 
dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think YBS treated Mr C 
and Mrs F unfairly. 
This means YBS doesnt need to pay Mr C and Mrs F back any of the commission they paid 
for the PPI. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr C and Mrs Fs complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Yorkshire Building Society didnt need to disclose the 
commission it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr C and Mrs F 
paid for the PPI.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C and Mrs F 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman