DRN-3228173
The complaint
Miss N complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (VM) unfairly reported a 
default on her credit file, and they did not provide customer service and support when she 
was in financial difficulty.  
What happened
 In 2017 Miss N took out a credit card with VM. A direct debit was in place and payments 
were made. 
In March 2018 Miss Ns direct debit payment reversed. Further direct debits failed in July 
and August 2018. In August 2018 she rang and tried to make a payment of £1508.06 to 
bring it up to date but this was also reversed. VM then cancelled the direct debit 
automatically after 2 unsuccessful attempts in a row. Another direct debit was set up October 
2018, but the November payment also failed. In October 2018 Miss N emailed VM regarding 
the failed direct debits and told them that she was struggling financially, but this e mail was 
overlooked. 
In February, April, May and June 2019 the minimum payment requirements werent met. 
Each month VM sent notices of default charges being added to the account, and in early 
June they blocked the card to avoid any further spending. Miss N made manual payments in 
June, July, August and September 2019 but for less than the minimum amount. She also 
wrote to VM again and explained that she was in financial and personal difficulties. 
As a result of the missed payments VM issued a Notice of Default under s87(1) in November 
2019 
VM wrote to Miss N and advised her that in the previous 18 months she had paid more in 
charges and interest than she had paid off and was now considered to be in persistent debt. 
In December 2019 VM terminated their Consumer Credit agreement and asked for 
repayment in full. They advised that they were applying a default to the credit file. 
In January 2020 VM sold the account to a third-party debt management company and a 
default was reported to the credit reference agency. 
Miss N was unhappy about the default on her credit file and the reported missed payments 
so she complained.  
VM issued a final response in March 2021. They said that they are required to report factual 
information to the Credit Reference Agency. When a minimum payment isnt met it is 
reported as a missed or late payment, even if a partial payment is made. They were satisfied 
that their reporting was correct. They also confirmed that the debt had been sold on to a 
third-party company for collection. 
They looked into the issue that the direct debits were reversed and couldnt see why this had 
happened, but they were satisfied that it wasnt their fault. 
They did think they could have done more to assist Miss V after she made contact with them 
in June 2019 and explained her difficulties, and so they offered to refund half of the charges 
and interest added to her account after June 2019, which was £223.66. They also offered to 
pay compensation of £200 for the missed opportunity to help. 
Miss N wasnt happy with this outcome and she brought her case to us. She said that she 
had specifically asked for communication by e mail or voicemail as she couldnt reply to calls 
during the day, and this request was ignored. She says being repeatedly called added to her 
stress. 
Our investigator upheld Miss Vs complaint.  She thought that VM were first made aware of 
Miss Ns difficulties in October 2018 and could have offered help much sooner. So she 
thought that VM should refund all interest and charges from October 2018.  The investigator 
also recommended VM should pay 8% interest on this sum, but she later withdrew this 
following representations from VM. 
 
Miss V disagreed with our investigators view and the case came to me to review. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
Reporting of the default
I can see that minimum payment direct debits werent met in February, April, May and June 
2019 and that following further failures in August, September and November a Notice of 
Default was sent to Miss V.  On 27 December 2019 VM terminated their Consumer Credit 
agreement and asked for repayment in full. They wrote and advised that they were applying 
a default to the credit file. 
Whilst I can understand that Miss V is unhappy that this report will affect her ability to borrow 
in the future, I cant fairly say that VM have done anything wrong here. The minimum 
payment requirements werent met, and they have an obligation to report missed and late 
payments to the Credit Reference Agency. Although Miss V made some payments, they 
didnt meet the minimum payment requirement, and therefore the reporting was correct.
 
The cancellation of the direct debit
VM have been unable to determine the reason for the direct debits failing as the records are 
no longer kept. However, the statements show that they were attempted and then reversed, 
and so I am satisfied that VM have not done anything wrong here, having attempted to take 
payments which were rejected by Miss Ns bank.  
In August 2018 the direct debit was cancelled after 2 payments in a row failed. Stopping the 
direct debit prevents the customer from accruing further failed payment charges, and doesnt 
stop them paying another way  as Miss N tried to do, so I dont think VM did anything wrong 
here. 
Requests for a new card
Miss V says that she asked for a new card. She notified VM of a name change on 25 July 
2018 and asked for a new card to be issued. Despite three requests on 1 August 2018 and 
11 October 2018 and 20 June 2019 this was not done.  VM accept this error and have 
provided feedback. Failure to respond to correspondence about financial difficulties. 
VM have accepted that they could have done more to assist Miss N following her contact in 
June 2019 about being in financial difficulties.  
However, VMs records show that Miss N first contacted them to advise of financial and 
personal difficulties eight months earlier in October 2018 after her direct debit failed. She 
said I have unfortunately been in difficult circumstances for the past few months and had to 
resort to credit to cover a number of living and medical expenses, so itll already take me a 
while to pay off my card, but I surely dont intend to get any more negative marks on my 
credit file due to errors on your part. 
I agree with the investigator that this was a clear indication to VM that Miss N was struggling 
and needed some support. She indicated that she was using credit for everyday expenses 
and was going to struggle to pay it off. However, this wasnt picked up by VM and Miss N 
wasnt referred to the Specialist Support Team as she could have been. I think that if VM 
had acted sooner, the Specialist Support Team may have been able to apply hardship which 
would have supressed interest and charges for that point.  I cant say that this would have 
stopped the default being reported but would have given her a plan for repayment and 
stopped further borrowing. 
In view of that I propose to ask VM to refund all the interest and charges that accrued after 
October 2018 when they first became aware of Miss Ns financial difficulties. 
I note that VM have disputed that they shouldnt have to repay all the interest and charges 
as Miss N continued to benefit from spending after October 2018, and they did attempt to 
call her on a large number of occasions. However, Miss N had asked for contact by 
voicemail or e mail as she wasnt able to deal with phone calls, and the benefit of the 
spending was almost entirely on transfers to another card to pay for living expenses, so I 
dont think that this changes the fact that VM missed an opportunity to intervene earlier 
before Miss Ns situation became worse, impacting her health.  
   
I can see that the investigator also suggested that VM should pay 8% interest on any refund, 
but VM argued that they shouldnt have to pay this as Miss N hasnt had funds withheld from 
her that she could have utilised elsewhere. However, Miss N has provided us with evidence 
that she cleared the full amount of the debt, including the interest and charges by 5 October 
2020. She has therefore lost the use of funds and any potential interest on the funds that she 
used to repay the portion of the debt that I am now recommending she is refunded.
 
I am therefore making a recommendation that Miss N is repaid 8% simple interest on the 
amount that she is refunded, from the date it was paid off to the debt collection agency.    
I therefore intended to uphold Miss Ns complaint, and I invited the parties to comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent Miss N and VM a copy of my provisional decision. Miss N has accepted the decision. 
VM havent formally accepted the decision, but they have asked for information to calculate 
the settlement owed, so I assume that they accept it. Either way, Im making my final 
decision for the reasons Ive summarised above. 
   My final decision
My decision is that I am upholding Miss Ns complaint and directing Clydesdale Bank Plc 
trading as Virgin Money to:
Refund Miss N all interest and charges applied to the account from 11 October 2018.
As this refund will result in Miss N having overpaid what was due, Clydesdale Bank 
trading as Virgin Money must reimburse Miss N for the overpayments with 8% simple 
interest per year from the date the overpayments occurred to the date of settlement. 
Pay £200 for the trouble and upset caused by the Virgin Moneys failure to respond 
to Miss Ns email dated 11 October 2018 and provide support at an earlier date.  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman