DRN-3416618
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) have been incorrectly reporting adverse
information to her credit file.
What happened
Miss T had a current account with BOS with an agreed overdraft facility. In April 2020, the
balance of Miss Ts account was such that she had used all of her agreed overdraft facility
and was using an unauthorised overdraft amount, meaning that the current account was
considered as being in a position of arrears and was being reported by BOS to the credit
reference agencies as such.
Miss T entered into a twelve-month repayment plan with BOS to repay the unauthorised
overdraft arrears on the current account, but then cleared the arrears and returned the
account to being within the agreed overdraft limit the following month, in May 2020.
In July 2020, Miss T noticed that BOS were still reporting the status of her current account
as being in a position of unauthorised arrears. Miss T contacted BOS about this and was told
that the incorrect adverse credit file reporting would be amended. However, the adverse
reporting was still present on Miss Ts credit file in September 2020. Miss T contacted BOS
about this again, who apologised and promised to amend it, and also made a payment
of £100 to Miss T to compensate her for any inconvenience incurred.
In December 2020, the adverse reporting was still present on Miss Ts credit file. BOS
explained to Miss T at that time that this was because the original payment arrangement to
clear the unauthorised arrears was scheduled to last until March 2021 and that an issue with
their systems meant that the reporting would remain on her credit account until that time.
BOS apologised for this and made a payment of £500 to further compensate Miss T for the
trouble and upset the matter was causing.
Miss T wasnt happy that BOS werent able to rectify the reporting on her credit file,
especially as it was affecting her ability to get a favourable re-mortgage rate, so she raised a
complaint. BOS looked at Miss Ts complaint and acknowledged that they hadnt been able
to accurately report the status of Miss Ts account, and they upheld Miss Ts complaint and
offered her a further £100 compensation.
Miss T wasnt satisfied with BOSs response and wanted her credit file to be reported
accurately. So, she referred her complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked at
this complaint. They agreed that BOS hadnt reported the status of Miss Ts credit file
accurately and they liaised with BOS who confirmed that the appropriate credit file
amendments had at that point been made. Our investigator therefore upheld Miss Ts
complaint but felt that the additional £100 compensation offer than BOS had made did
represent a fair and reasonable resolution to what had taken place.
Miss T remained dissatisfied, especially as when she checked her credit file the following
month, the incorrect adverse reporting had been reapplied by BOS. So, the matter was
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 9 March 2022 as follows:
BOS dont dispute that theyve been unable to accurately report the status of Miss Ts
current account to the credit reference agencies, and theyve been in ongoing 
discussion with this service about this matter since the end of 2020.
When I was first asked to look at this complaint, in August 2021, BOS were trying to 
find a lasting solution to the issue of the incorrect credit file reporting being reapplied 
automatically by their systems. Unfortunately, BOS havent been able to find such a 
solution, and so rather than allow Miss Ts credit file to remain in a state of perpetual 
adverse incorrectness  which has had, and would continue to have, a detrimental 
effect on Miss Ts credit score  its been agreed that the best way forwards at this 
point is for BOS to delete all reporting associated with this current account.
This solution isnt ideal, for while it does mean that Miss Ts credit file wont show the
incorrect adverse reporting that has been the ongoing problem, it also means that 
Miss T wont be able to benefit from the reporting that should be place on her credit 
file in relation to this account moving forwards.
I also feel that Miss T has incurred significant detriment here in regard to the ongoing 
nature of this problem and the unreasonable amount of time and effort that she has 
had to expend trying to get it resolved. And its notable that Miss Ts frustrations with 
BOS at not being able to resolve this situation recently resulted in her making the 
decision to move her banking to a different provider, at further inconvenience to 
herself.
To date, BOS have made payments of compensation to Miss T totalling £600 and 
offered to pay a further £100 compensation in their response to Miss Ts complaint. 
But given the unreasonably long running nature of this issue and the considerable 
impact Im satisfied that it has had on Miss T, I do feel that a much larger amount of 
compensation is warranted in this instance. As such, my provisional decision here is 
that I will be upholding this complaint in Miss Ts favour and instructing BOS to pay 
Miss T a further £1,000, which I feel more fairly compensates Miss T for the ongoing 
detriment that shes incurred here.
I acknowledge that £1,000 is a significant amount of further compensation to instruct 
BOS to pay. But in arriving at this amount Ive considered the amount of time and 
effort that Miss T has had to expend here over the approximately 20 months that this 
matter has been ongoing, as well as the corresponding frustration and inconvenience 
that this has entailed for Miss T and which has been evident in her regular 
correspondence with this service in where she has highlighted the angst and distress 
this matter has caused her on numerus occasions.
Miss T has expressed particular concern over the fact that the incorrect adverse 
reporting was in place when she was having to re-mortgage her property, and she 
feels that the presence of this incorrect adverse reporting on her credit file at the time 
was a contributing factor to her not being able to obtain as favourable a re-mortgage rate as she would have liked. Miss T has also expressed similar sentiments about the 
incorrect adverse reporting affecting her ability to reasonably apply for new credit.
I can appreciate Miss Ts position here, and while I dont feel that it can be said with 
absolute certainty that the adverse reporting was the sole reason why Miss T didnt 
obtain a lower re-mortgage rate than she did  given that mortgage rates can 
dependent on many factors  I can understand how the continuing presence of the 
incorrect reporting at that time would have been particularly stressful and unsettling 
for Miss T.
Finally, Ive also considered the fact that Miss Ts credit file has been incorrectly 
adversely reported for a prolonged period of time and that the deletion of all credit file 
reporting relating to this account means that Miss T will no longer be able to benefit 
from having accurate reporting on her credit file in relation to this account.
In regard to that last point, I realise that BOS are making an exception to their normal
processes here by deleting the account, which I appreciate them agreeing to. But I 
hope BOS will themselves appreciate that Ive only suggested this step because it 
looks like all other avenues for achieving a fair outcome here have been exhausted. 
And it remains the case that this still doesnt put Miss T in exactly the position she 
should be in in terms of what is being reported on her credit file.
All of which means that I do feel that further compensation of £1,000 is merited in this
instance.
In response to my provisional decision letter, both Miss T and BOS confirmed that they were 
happy to accept my provisional decision and the payment of a further £1,000 compensation 
to Miss T.
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint on the basis 
as outlined in my provisional decision, and I can confirm that my final decision is that I do 
uphold this complaint on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland must make a further payment of £1,000 to Miss T.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman