DRN-1873500
The complaint
Mr B complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited has declined his income 
protection claim and avoided his policy.
What happened
When Mr B purchased an income protection policy via an independent financial adviser 
(IFA) in March 2019, he was asked a number of questions about his health. His answers 
were then presented to L&G, who in turn sent Mr B a copy of them and asked him to confirm 
their accuracy. A warning was given that if Mr Bs answers were found to be incorrect, his 
claims might not be paid, and his policy might be cancelled or amended.
Mr B duly signed a declaration to confirm the accuracy of his answers. L&G decided it was 
prepared to offer him a policy without seeing his medical records. 
In summer 2019, Mr B became unable to work due to illness and made a claim. But on 
reviewing his medical notes L&G decided hed misrepresented his state of health. It said it 
wouldnt have offered Mr B a policy if it had known the true picture. So, it declined Mr Bs 
claim and avoided his policy (treated it like it never existed) but refunded his premiums. 
Mr B felt this was unfair. He thought some of the questions L&G had asked in the application 
were unclear. And he said that some of the things it had accused him of not disclosing were 
just symptoms of other conditions he had disclosed. He thought L&G had exaggerated the 
severity of some of his medical conditions. And he felt that it could have contacted his 
general practitioner (GP) for confirmation of his answers during the application process. 
L&G investigated Mr Bs complaint but didnt change its stance on the claim or the policy. 
However, it acknowledged that it had taken a long time to reach its decision and that it hadnt 
kept Mr B sufficiently updated. It therefore paid him £600 compensation. 
Our investigator didnt think L&G needed to do anything further to put things right. He felt 
L&G had acted fairly by concluding Mr B hadnt taken reasonable care not to misrepresent 
his state of health. And he was satisfied that if Mr B had taken reasonable care, it would 
have resulted in his application being declined. He also considered that £600 fairly reflected 
its handling of the claim and Mr Bs subsequent complaint. 
Mr B disagreed, so I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The law in force when Mr B took out the policy in 2019 was the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (the Act). Under this Act, Mr B had a duty to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. I also note that the policy was taken 
out through an IFA. I just want to make clear that in this scenario the IFA is considered to be 
an agent of Mr B and is therefore also capable of making a misrepresentation on his behalf. 
Where the duty of reasonable care is breached, the Act sets out remedies that are available 
to an insurer. Where the breach wasnt deliberate or reckless, the available remedy depends 
on what the insurer would have done if the duty of reasonable care had been met. If the 
insurer can show that it wouldnt have offered cover on any terms, it can avoid the contract 
and refuse all claims, but must return the premiums paid. 
As referenced above, L&G warned Mr B about this on the application form. And once the 
policy started, it sent him a copy of the full terms and conditions of his policy, which said:
If you (or an agent acting on your behalf) provide inaccurate information through 
carelessness, we are entitled to amend the policy to reflect the terms that would have 
been offered had the accurate information been known. In these circumstances:
i. if we would not have issued your policy had the accurate information been 
provided, we are entitled to cancel your policy, however we will refund any 
premiums you have already paid.
The first thing for me to consider here is whether L&Gs questions were clear enough to illicit 
the information it thinks Mr B misrepresented. Firstly, it says that Mr B under-disclosed the 
amount of time he had off work due to Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS). The question it 
asked around this was in follow up to Mr Bs disclosure of IBS. It said:
In total, how much time off your normal work or daily activities have you had for this 
in the last 12 months?
The answer needed to be given in weeks and days. Mr Bs application said he took a week 
and three days off work in the last 12 months for his IBS. But when he made a claim, L&G 
noted hed been declared unfit to work by his GP from 13 August 2018 to 30 August 2018, 
which, in total, is a period of two weeks and four days.  
I think these dates are likely correct. On 13 August 2018 Mr B had a telephone consultation 
with his GP and said hed been unwell with abdominal pains since Friday (10 August 2018). 
He had a further telephone consultation on 23 August 2018 where he said his abdominal 
pains hadnt improved and that hed like a sick note to cover him until the end of the month. 
A sick note was then issued to 30 August 2018, which was backdated to 13 August 2018. 
And I think its reasonable to conclude that was because Mr B had been off from that date.
Both L&G and our investigator have highlighted the dates on the sick note to Mr B. He hasnt 
suggested the note is inaccurate or that he returned to work before it expired. Hes just said 
that he didnt remember that hed been off work for that long when he made his application. 
Mr B has questioned whether its reasonable to expect someone to remember the exact 
dates of an absence. The question only referred to the last 12 months, and the absence took 
place just over six months before the application. So, I think its reasonable to expect that the 
dates of the absence would have been relatively fresh in Mr Bs mind. And to comply with 
the duty of reasonable care, the expectation is that someone should check the answer to a 
question if theyre unsure. Mr B could have checked with either his GP or his employer 
before signing the declaration, as opposed to providing a best guess.  Mr B also told L&G he was working four days per week at the time. It may not have been 
clear whether the question referred to working weeks and days or calendar weeks and days. 
But using either measure, Mr B missed two full weeks of work. He must also have missed at 
least one working day of the third week. He says he generally works from Monday to Friday, 
and the sick note didnt expire until a Thursday. So, given the format in which answers were 
requested he would always have had to answer that hed had more than two weeks off work.
For the avoidance of doubt, I dont think someone could reasonably interpret that a week 
meant seven working days. Or that they should subtract the number of days they werent 
contracted to work from their overall answer. 
In any event, I dont interpret from Mr Bs submissions that this is what he did. During the 
calls hes had with us, he didnt argue that he provided incorrect information unwittingly due 
to ambiguity in the question or answer format. He seemed to accept he just didnt correctly 
remember how long he was off for and therefore provided the wrong answer. 
As described above, if theres any discrepancy between how Mr B presented his answer to 
his IFA and how it was then presented to L&G hed need to raise this with the IFA directly 
because the IFA was acting as his agent. 
On balance, I dont think Mr B did take reasonable care to answer this question. L&G has 
sent me a copy of the relevant underwriting flow chart. Im satisfied this shows that Mr Bs 
application would have been declined if hed disclosed having had anything more than two 
weeks off work in relation to IBS in the last 12 months. This would have taken into account 
the date of Mr Bs diagnosis of IBS, as well as the recency and severity of his symptoms. 
L&G did allege further misrepresentations. But given that Im satisfied the application would 
have been declined based on the circumstances of Mr Bs IBS alone, I havent addressed 
the other alleged misrepresentations in this decision. 
I recognise Mr Bs argument that his misrepresentation would have been nullified if L&G had 
reviewed his medical records. But under the Act it was Mr Bs duty, not L&Gs, to take 
reasonable care to ensure he hadnt made a misrepresentation. And he signed a declaration 
confirming that the information hed provided was truthful and accurate. L&G was therefore 
entitled to rely on Mr Bs disclosures without checking them against his medical records.
I appreciate this is a serious matter for Mr B and Im conscious of the impact my decision is 
likely to have. I want to reassure him that Ive considered it carefully, taking into account the 
relevant law, the policy terms and all the circumstances of the case. Having done so, I think 
L&G was entitled to decline his claim, avoid his policy and return his premiums in line with 
the remedies set out in the Act and the terms of his policy.
In terms of L&Gs handling of the claim, I agree with its own assessment that it could have 
handled things better. Mr B was in a difficult situation financially due to his inability to work. 
He ultimately had to move in with his parents and wasnt in a position to claim benefits from 
the state. So, I think L&G ought to have taken all reasonable steps to ensure the outcome of 
the claim was communicated to him as soon as reasonably possible. In practice though, 
there were a number of avoidable delays and Mr B wasnt updated regularly enough.  
Having said that, I think L&G has recognised its failings in this regard and Im satisfied that 
£600 is a fair reflection of the impact its errors had on Mr B.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman