DRN-1463868
 
The complaint
Miss O complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt paid her back for transactions on her 
account that she considers to be fraudulent.
What happened
Miss O told Santander she didnt recognise annual transactions for £59.99 to an IT security 
provider. She said she had moved away from using this IT security provider in 2017. She 
wanted Santander to get her money back for the transactions in 2018 and 2019. She said 
the transactions were unauthorised. The card used was one that had been stopped. 
Miss O also complained about how Santanders call handler spoke to her on the phone.
Santander initially paid her back some money, but only for the 2019 transaction. It said she 
was too late to challenge the 2018 transaction. 
Santander then investigated, and said this wasnt a fraudulent or unauthorised transaction. It 
had spoken to the IT security provider, and said Miss O had a contract with it. That was what 
the charge was for. Santander appreciated that Miss O didnt need this service from 2017, 
but it didnt have any evidence that Miss O had told the IT security provider that. 
Santander didnt think it had provided Miss O with unfair treatment during the process of the 
investigation. It didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said the January 2018 
payment was outside of the time allowed for chargebacks to be made. FCA rules also allow 
banks to refuse a refund for unauthorised payments which they werent made aware of 
within 13 months, and Miss O didnt tell Santander about the January 2018 payment within 
this time limit, so our investigator thought that also played a part in Santanders decision. 
Our investigator thought that Miss O had set up a continuous payment authority for an 
annual payment to the IT security provider. He thought that because of the way this payment 
showed on Santanders system and because of what the IT security provider itself had said 
to Santander. 
Our investigator said the transactions Miss O challenged werent fraud. They were all 
payments made under a continuous payment authority. Miss O had signed up for an annual 
recurring subscription in 2007. She no longer had access to the email address shed used to 
do that, so might not have been aware of the upcoming charges. 
Our investigator knew the charges were taken from an expired card, but he said that 
transactions on a continuous payment authority will bridge over to a new card. Her card 
scheme operator, whose symbol is on Miss Os card, provides this updated information for 
transactions like this one, whenever an old card expires. Our investigator had listened to the phone calls Miss O had with Santander, and he didnt 
think Santander had been unfair. He said the calls were handled professionally, and in a 
friendly tone. Correct information was given. 
Our investigator said hed not found evidence of a mistake by Santander, so he said he 
wouldnt ask it to do anything else.
Miss O didnt agree. She said shed never agreed to a continuous payment method. She 
thought this was fraud by the IT security provider, and that Santanders staff had 
collaborated in the fraud. Because she didnt agree with our investigator, the case came to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss O has previously made a series of payments to an IT security provider. These were 
made annually. Miss O has suggested these were manual payments she did, each year. But 
Santander says that these transactions show on its records not as manual payments, but as 
transactions made under a continuous payment authority. 
A continuous payment authority allows a company to regularly debit someones card. This is 
usually used for things like subscriptions or club memberships. I think the evidence from 
Santander, and the fact that the payments were taken on exactly the same date each year 
all supports this being a continuous payment authority. 
So I think its more likely that Miss O had previously granted a continuous payment authority 
to the IT security provider to take an annual subscription payment each year. 
Miss O only wanted to challenge the two most recent payments. She said shed got a new 
computer in 2017, and didnt use the services of this IT security provider any more. So she 
didnt think payments shouldve been taken for 2018 and 2019. Miss O felt these were 
fraudulent. 
Santander didnt have a way to challenge the payment from 2018 through a chargeback 
request, because it was too late to do that now. And it also noted that the rules on 
unauthorised payments mean that it can turn down requests to investigate unauthorised 
payments made over 13 months ago. I dont think that was an unfair or unreasonable 
decision for Santander to make. 
Santander did look into the payment in 2019. It rang the IT security provider. The provider 
told Santander that Miss O did have a recurring subscription set up, and she hadnt 
cancelled it. Santander thought that, along with the content of the conversations it had with 
Miss O, meant that this wasnt a fraudulent payment. So it took back the credit that it had 
given Miss O for this transaction. I dont think that was an unfair or unreasonable decision for 
Santander to make.
I dont think Santander has to give Miss O this money back, or do any more to challenge 
these payments. 
Miss O has also complained about the service she received from Santander, and in 
particular on a call she had on 4 May, Ive listened carefully to that call, and I dont think 
Santander provided Miss O with poor service on that call. I think the call handler was 
seeking to help Miss O as best she was able to. I know Miss O will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman