DRN-1596335
 
complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Santander UK Plc, trading at the time as Abbey National, mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. For ease Ill refer to the business as 
Santander for the majority of the rest of this decision.  
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy when they applied for a remortgage in 2003. They paid a 
monthly amount for the policy, this covered Mr and Mrs M for accident and sickness. Our 
adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint for the reasons Ive set out below.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs M have given us their best recollections of the events of 2003. 
And Ive thought carefully about what they have said, including that they didnt agree to the 
PPI and think it was added without their consent. Santander has denied this.  
So, both sides disagree. Its not straightforward to decide a case when there are no 
documents available from the time of the sale that clearly demonstrate things. But the sale 
happened over 16 years ago, and the policy was cancelled over 14 years ago, so Im not 
surprised that neither Santander nor Mr and Mrs M have been able to provide documents 
that clarify matters fully. Where there is missing or insufficient evidence for me to consider, I 
need to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider 
what I do have, look at what both sides have said, and make a decision based on what I 
think most likely happened. 
I have considered that Santander has provided a welcome letter they say they sent to Mr 
and Mrs M explaining the PPI that they say Mr and Mrs M agreed to. Mr and Mrs M say they 
never received it. Santander has said that the PPI was paid for by a separate direct debit 
and the cost would have shown on their statements. Mr and Mrs M say that their English is 
poor and they wouldnt have noticed the PPI on their statements. Santander has provided a 
sample application for the PPI which they say Mr and Mrs M would have had to complete to get the PPI. And Santander told us that this would also have required a separate direct debit 
too. Mr and Mrs M deny completing such documentation. 
Santander has provided a record of the interaction with Mr and Mrs M in 2005 when Mrs M 
cancelled the PPI. So, if Mr and Mrs M hadnt known about or agreed to the PPI in 2003, 
then they were aware of it by 2005, when they contacted Santander and cancelled the 
policy. So, if they hadnt agreed to it in 2003, as they say now, I would have expected them 
to have raised this as an issue with Santander many years before they eventually chose to 
do. And Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Santander didnt make Miss W aware the 
PPI was optional. 
So, having considered all the submissions made to us in this case, and having listened to 
what both sides have said, on balance I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs M did agree to 
take the cover and did so knowing they had a choice about it, even if they dont remember 
that now, many years later. 
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them  and it seems to have been right for them based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time. For example Mr and Mrs M were eligible for the policy and were 
not affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And they seem to have 
had a need for the cover. Mr and Mrs M told us they had only modest sick pay arrangements 
in place through their employer, such that they might have had to rely on their family or some 
overseas savings to make their mortgage repayments. 
However, upon a successful claim, the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months, and this 
would have paid out in addition to the sick pay that Mr and Mrs M told us about, and would 
have reduced their reliance on whatever help their family may have been in a position to 
offer them at such a time. Mr and Mrs M have provided no evidence of the size of or detail 
about their overseas liquid assets. But they chose to protect these at the time of taking out 
their re-mortgage  they chose not to use them to achieve a smaller mortgage or no 
mortgage at all. And the PPI would have further protected whatever assets they had at that 
time. So, thinking about all of this and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on 
a loan secured on your home, I think Mr and Mrs M could have found the policy useful. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. So having thought about everything carefully, I think the 
policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs M.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr and Mrs M, Santander also had to give them 
clear enough information about the policy, so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Santander gave them was not as clear as it shouldve been. 
However, for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable, Im not persuaded more or 
better information wouldve made a difference to their decision to take out the PPI. So, I 
dont think Mr and Mrs M have lost out as a result of anything Santander may have done 
wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman