DRN-3180855
The complaint
Mr G complains (through a representative) Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out
effective affordability checks. Had it done so, then Mr G wouldnt have been provided with
the loans.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Gs complaint. Morses didnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold 
Mr Gs complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings 
follow this in italics and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr G took seven loans between December 2013 and July 2016. Ive included some of the
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £400.00 05/12/2013 11/07/2014 32 £20.00
2 £400.00 11/07/2014 05/06/2015 50 £14.00
3 £200.00 11/07/2014 27/02/2015 34 £10.00
4 £600.00 07/08/2015 24/06/2016 50 £21.00
5 £600.00 21/07/2016 14/07/2017 52 £21.00
Morses acquired at least one account from a previous lender, but it only purchased loans
that were open in March 2014, which is when the acquisition took place. So Morses believes
there may have been a further loan before December 2013, but it doesnt have any
information about it because the loan was likely sold, settled or closed. So, the loans that
this decision covers are those loans listed in the table above.
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong for Morses to have granted loans 1 - 4. But the
adjudicator thought that loan 5 shouldnt have been lent. She said the pattern of lending
indicated Mr G had become persistently reliant on the loans and therefore Morses shouldnt
have been provided with the final loan.
Mr G appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators assessment in relation to loan 5. In summary, it 
doesnt feel Mr G had become persistently reliant on this loan for the following reasons:
5 loans in two and half years isnt excessive,
the loan looked affordable based on what Mr G declared about his income and 
expenditure and
there was a significant break in lending between loans 3 and 4 and another month 
gap between loans 4 and 5.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr G doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Morses wasnt wrong to
lend loans 1  4. So, it seems this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer think that I need
to make a finding about it. But I have kept these loans in mind when thinking about the
overall lending relationship between Morses and Mr G.
Instead, this decision will focus on whether Morses did anything wrong when it granted loan
5.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr G could afford to pay back the amounts hed
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to
the circumstances. Morsess checks could have taken into account a number of different
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Gs income
and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr G. These factors include:
Mr G having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr G having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr G coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid 
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr G.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr G could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr G was able to repay his
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulators says in the states payments are sustainable if they are made without
undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable
commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought
reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments withoutborrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are 
unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Gs complaint.
Loan 5
As the adjudicator has pointed out, by loan 5 Mr G had taken at least four loans in around 30
months and he did at times, take a new loan either on the day the previous one was repaid
or very shortly afterwards. Which is why the adjudicator thought this loan should be upheld.
However, as Morses has pointed out, there was a significant gap in lending between loans 3
and 4, and then a much smaller gap of around a month between loans 4 and 5.
Ive carefully considered the larger gap between loans 3 and 4, I dont agree with Morses
that the lending relationship was split across two lending chains. However, whether the
lending was split across two lending chains, doesnt make a difference, because I think the
gap is large enough to demonstrate that Mr G wasnt reliant on this type of lending and
therefore, the loan was likely to be sustainable for Mr G.
Overall, I dont think the loan activity was quite enough to suggest Mr G had become reliant
on the loans. The loan amounts had only slightly increased and there wasnt any obvious
repayment difficulties  such as missed payments. So, I dont agree with the adjudicator that
Morses ought to have reasonably concluded that this loan was unsustainable for Mr G.
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. Mr G had been
indebted for the majority of at least the last 30 months. This loan was also the joint largest
loan of £600 to be repaid over another year. So, Mr G was extending his indebtedness into a
fourth year.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Mr G declared to it
about his income and expenditure. Even though this information Morses gathered suggested
Mr G had disposable income of around £225 per week, Morses, in my view still needed to do
more.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Mr Gs actual financial position to
ensure loan 5 was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for
evidence of outgoings or looking at bank statements and / or Mr Gs credit report. This
mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other
information that Morses mightve needed to consider about Mr Gs actual financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold loan 5, I have to be
satisfied that not only Morses didnt carry out proportionate checks, but had it carried out
further checks it wouldve likely discovered that Mr G couldnt afford this loan.
Mr G hasnt provided this Service with a copy of his bank statements or his credit report. So,
I dont know what further checks may have highlighted about his financial situation at the
time this loan was approved. So, without any further information from Mr G about his living 
costs, its difficult for me to conclude what Morses wouldve seen if it had made better
checks.
Looking at everything together, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to suggest Morses
shouldnt have lent loan 5. So, Im minded therefore to think Morses wasnt wrong to have
provided this loan to Mr G and Im intending to not uphold his complaint about it.Responses to the provisional decision
Both parties were asked to provide any further comments and evidence to this Service no 
later than 18 November 2021. 
Morses confirmed it had received the provisional decision and it didnt have anything further 
to add. 
Mr G (through his representative) responded and said; happy to go ahead with the 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr G and Morses received the provisional decision and neither party provided any 
further comments or evidence for me to consider. I therefore see no reason to depart from 
the findings I made in the provisional decision. 
Which in summary is, Morses didnt carry out proportionate checks before the final loan was 
granted. But I dont know what it may have seen had it carried out further checks. Im 
therefore not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and the provisional decision, Im not upholding Mr Gs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman