DRN-2300217
The complaint
Mr M makes a number of complaints about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
What happened
Mr M says HSBCs telephone banking and security questions are inappropriate and intrusive 
and that he is blocked from using telephone banking. He says HSBC has not allowed him 
access to his account and hasnt sent him a new PIN as promised. He also says he asked 
HSBC if a branch was open only to find out when he attended, it was closed. Mr M would 
like compensation for whats taken place and says HSBCs offer of £80 isnt enough and that 
compensation hasnt been paid.
HSBC says it has paid the £80 in circumstances where it doesnt accept making a mistake. It 
says it doesnt have a record of telling Mr M about the branch opening hours and says Mr M 
was using telephone banking. But that access has been stopped due to Mr M failing its 
security questions. HSBC says it ordered and sent Mr M a new PIN.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. In summary the 
investigator thought Mr M had said he didnt want to use telephone banking and that HSBC 
had given him reasonable alternatives such as attending a branch. The investigator thought 
the account was still open and being used and that the £80 was paid and a new PIN was 
sent. The investigator didnt think there was sufficient evidence to decide if incorrect advice 
had been given about the branch opening hours.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and maintains HSBC didnt send a new PIN.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I will explain. I appreciate that Mr M will be disappointed by my decision and also 
appreciate how strongly he feels about what took place.
I can see that Mr M has told us that he doesnt want to use telephone banking, which is of 
course his choice. I have looked at HSBCs records and can see that Mr M did use that way 
of banking but there is now a block in place as Mr M failed HSBCs security questions. I 
make clear that its up to HSBC to decide what those security questions are and not 
something I can fairly interfere in. So, I dont think HSBC made a mistake or acted unfairly by 
placing the account blocks on Mr Ms account and think that he can attend a branch to carry 
out his banking and ask HSBC to remove the blocks if he has changed his mind about using 
telephone banking.
I have looked at HSBCs records and can see that those records say a new PIN was ordered 
on 27 August 2020. I appreciate Mr M says he didnt receive that PIN, but Im satisfied it was 
ordered and on balance that it was sent. I cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for Mr M not 
receiving it as its not responsible for the safe delivery of the mail.
I appreciate Mr M says he was given incorrect information about branch opening hours. I 
dont think Mr M has been clear about when he was told that or when he attended a branch. 
I can see that HSBC doesnt have a record of that information and so its difficult to be sure 
what took place or what Mr M was told. I would have expected Mr M to have provided a date 
for the visit or a receipt for the taxi he said he travelled in. For those reasons I cant fairly 
order HSBC to pay compensation for that part of Mr Ms complaint.
Im satisfied having looked at HSBCs records that it paid Mr M the £80 compensation on 1 
September 2020. I appreciate Mr M says he didnt receive it, but I dont think he has 
provided an account statement to show the money wasnt paid.
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC has dealt fairly with Mr Ms complaints and has paid 
compensation in circumstances where I dont think it made a mistake or acted unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman