DRN-3186002
The complaint
Mr N complains about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS) and the delays he 
encountered when transferring his childrens Junior Cash Individual Savings Accounts (ISA) 
to an Investment ISA provider. 
What happened
On 29 April 2020, BOS received a Transfer Out Request (TRO) from Mr Ns chosen 
investment ISA provider, who Ill refer to as A. This request was for Mr Ns two childrens 
Junior Cash ISAs. BOS e-mailed and wrote to Mr N the same day, explaining they needed 
identification documents to complete the request.
On 1 May, Mr N attended his local branch and provided this information. And here, his local 
branch explained the documents would be placed in the internal post to be completed. But 
this wasnt the correct process and Mr N needed to return to branch again on 11 May with 
the same documents so these could be keyed into BOS system.
The TRO was then processed and in mid-June, BOS noted that there wasnt an updated 
signature on their files. But as Mr N had already attended branch twice, the request was 
progressed without the need for any further action and the transfers were completed on BOS 
system on 18 June. 
But Mr N was unhappy with the delays, so he raised a complaint. Mr N explained hed been 
told by a member of staff that the transfers would complete by 14 May. So, he thought it had 
been delayed unreasonably by around a month. And he explained due to this, his childrens 
accounts had been financially impacted as theyd lost the returns they wouldve made had 
the funds been available to invest earlier. So, he wanted to be compensated for this.
BOS responded and upheld Mr Ns complaint. They agreed the TRO hadnt been processed 
within the timeframe theyd suggested. And they accepted this was due to errors they made. 
So, they paid Mr N a total of £100 split as £50 per childs account, to recognise the upset 
and inconvenience he was caused. And they paid Mr N another £600 to cover any losses 
the two accounts experienced due to the funds not being able to invest earlier.
Mr N initially accepted this offer. But when he analysed both accounts actual losses and 
factored in the return on return he thought wouldve been generated from re-investing the 
lost profit, he didnt think BOS offer adequately covered the losses made on the accounts. 
He provided this information to BOS but he received no response. So, he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She recognised the TRO had 
been delayed and that BOS accepted this was due to their mistake. So, she considered 
whether the offer BOS had already made was a fair one. And she thought it was. She 
explained shed calculated how many additional shares Mr N wouldve been able to 
purchase with the same providers had the funds been available when he expected them to 
be and the returns these wouldve generated to understand how much each account had 
lost. And having done so, she thought the offer BOS made reasonably covered this. And she 
thought the additional £100 was fair to recognise the inconvenience and upset Mr N had 
been caused. So, she didnt think BOS needed to do anything more.
Mr N didnt agree. He didnt think it was fair for the investigator to base the calculations on 
the investments made on both accounts in June as these wouldnt have been the 
investments he made in May, due to the changing landscape of the investment market. He 
explained he made separate investments at that time on his Self-Invested Pension Plan 
(SIPP) and thought the investigator should base the calculations on the shares bought on 
that. He also didnt think the investigator had considered the return on return which he felt 
should be factored in. And finally, Mr N didnt think the £100 offer for the inconvenience he 
was caused was enough to factor in his two trips to a local branch during the COVID-19 
pandemic plus the time hed spent speaking to BOS about his concerns. As Mr N didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
It's not in dispute that there were delays in processing the TRO. And BOS have accepted 
they made mistakes that led to these delays. So, Im satisfied BOS acted unfairly and I dont 
intend to discuss this any further.
What is in dispute in this situation is what BOS should do to put things right. BOS have paid 
Mr N a total of £700 to recognise the accounts financial losses and the inconvenience and 
upset he was caused. Mr N doesnt think this offer is fair as it fails to adequately cover the 
losses on the account and doesnt fairly recognise the inconvenience he was caused. So, 
Ive considered whether I think the offer BOS made is a fair one, or whether they need to do 
anything more.
Ive first thought about the financial losses on the accounts. Mr N has disputed the 
calculations provided by our investigator in their view as he says he wouldve made different 
investments on the accounts if the funds had been available in May. And he thinks these 
investments wouldve provided a greater return. Mr N has said he can evidence this by 
providing the investments he made on his own SIPP which he feels shows he was likely to 
have invested the same on his childrens accounts.
While I understand Mr Ns rationale and I appreciate the point hes made, I dont think Mr N 
making investments on his own individual SIPP satisfies me he wouldve made these 
investments on his childrens accounts. This is because there is differing risk when investing 
into his SIPP compared to his childrens investment ISAs. And as there is differing risk due 
to the lifetime of the accounts and the fact he was investing on behalf of someone else, I 
dont think I can be certain Mr N wouldve made the same investments as he made on his 
SIPP in May. 
But Mr N did make investments on his childrens accounts in June. So, I am satisfied Mr N 
was willing to accept the risk associated with these investments on behalf of his children. 
And because of this, I think its more likely than not that hed have been willing to accept the same risk in May. So, I think its reasonable to calculate the accounts losses based on Mr N 
making the same investments a month earlier.
And having looked at these calculations, considering the additional shares Mr N wouldve 
been able to purchase on 14 May and the returns they wouldve generated, I think the £600 
BOS have paid Mr N covers these losses. And because of this, I think the offer BOS have 
made is a fair one.
Im also aware Mr Ns comments regarding the return on returns and his belief this should 
also be considered. And I want to reassure Mr N Ive thought about this and recognise the 
time hes taken to project these returns. But Im unable to ask BOS to compensate Mr N for 
prospective losses. And while I appreciate Mr N strongly believes he wouldve reinvested 
these returns and thinks his actions on the account suggest this, Im unable to say for certain 
Mr N wouldve done so and even if he had, how much he wouldve re-invested and where he 
wouldve re-invested it. So, I dont think itd be fair for me to consider these losses or ask 
BOS to cover them.
Ive then thought about the £100 BOS have offered Mr N to recognise the inconvenience 
hes been caused. 
I recognise Mr N had to attend his local branch twice during the COVID-19 pandemic and 
the restrictions that were imposed at the time. Mr N would always have needed to attend 
once to provide his identity documents but I agree that he was forced to attend again due to 
the errors BOS made. And I think this wouldve been inconvenient for Mr N as it wouldve 
taken time and effort. And I recognise it wouldve been made more difficult due to the 
restrictions that were in place.
And I think it wouldve been frustrating for Mr N when he realised the TRO hadnt been 
processed in time. I also think it wouldve been upsetting for Mr N when he realised the 
accounts had lost out on returns due to the delay in being able to invest the funds.
But I am also aware the delay was relatively short. And I think BOS took steps to minimise 
these delays by agreeing to process the TRO even though an updated signature wasnt 
available on the system. 
So, considering all of the above, I think the £100 total compensation Mr N has been offered 
falls in line with what I wouldve directed, had it not already been made by BOS. I recognise 
this was awarded as £50 per childs account but I think its fair to consider it as a total overall 
compensation package as Mr N was administering both accounts at the same time. So, 
because of the above, I dont think BOS need to do anything more on this occasion.
I recognise this isnt the outcome Mr N was hoping for and I appreciate it wont provide Mr N 
with the financial compensation he is looking for to cover what he feels are the accurate 
financial losses. But I want to reassure Mr N Ive considered all of the comments hes made 
at length and I hope this decision explains clearly why Ive reached the decision that I have 
and that this provides Mr N with some closure to the complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint about Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman