DRN-3782800
The complaint
Mr B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr B is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In December 2013, Mr B was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk 
about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Mr B decided to purchase the system and finance it through 
a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In January 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mr Bs behalf under sections 75 (s.75) and 140 
(s.140) of the Act to Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr B to enter into the contract with P and created an 
unfair relationship with him. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The total cost of the system was documented as £7,500.00 when the actual cost of 
the system including interest was £12,056.40. 
Mr B was promised a tax-free year 1 benefit of £1,205.64.
The credit agreement would be self-funded by virtue of the Feed-In Tariff ("FIT") 
payments. The system would not cost Mr B a penny.
The FIT payments would match the loan repayments. A government subsidy would 
be paid to meet any shortfall.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it thought the claim had been made 
outside of the time limits set out in the Limitation Act 1980 and outside of the time limits set 
out within our rules.  
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator found that we could consider some parts 
of the complaint, but that the complaint should not be upheld.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
The system has not generated the amount of electricity promised by P and as a 
result it has not provided the benefits set out at the time of sale. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
Our Service follows the complaint handling rules set out in the handbook of the Financial 
Conduct Authority. The rules surrounding time limits are set out in the dispute resolution 
section under DISP 2.8.2R.
I cannot look at the merits of a complaint that has been referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service more than:
Six years after the event complained of; or if later
Three years from when the customer was aware, or ought reasonably to have been 
aware, of cause for complaint.
Unless, amongst other reasons, the complainant (Mr B) referred the complaint to the 
respondent (Shawbrook) or to the Financial Ombudsman Service within that period and has 
a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint having been received
s.75
Exercising a creditors rights and duties under a credit agreement is a regulated activity 
(Article 60(B)(2) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001). And maintaining a fair relationship with Mr B is a duty incumbent on creditors. 
So, when Mr B complains that Shawbrook hasnt accepted his s.75 claim, the complaint he 
brings to us is that Shawbrook has acted unfairly by not fulfilling its obligations in relation to a 
regulated credit agreement. And that is the complaint which is subject to our time limits.  
Mr B is required to bring his complaint within six years of when the regulated activity took 
place (that is when Shawbrook rejected his s.75 claim). In this case, he has done so, 
Shawbrooks letter rejecting this claim being sent in January 2020 and the CMC referring 
Mr Bs complaint to us in March 2020. 
So, I find that the complaint about the s.75 claim has been brought within the time limits set 
out in DISP 2.8.2(2) R. And I do have jurisdiction to consider it. 
However, Ive also considered the time limits within the Limitation Act 1980 that apply to 
different types of claims. Mr B has said the system was misrepresented to him by P. 
Under the Limitation Act Mr B had six years to make a claim  for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract under s.75  from the date he entered the loan agreement (December 
2013). So, Mr B needed to raise his s.75 claim no later than December 2019. But he raised 
his claim in January 2020  outside of the time limit allowed. 
So, given that Mr Bs s.75 claim would be time barred under the Limitation Act, I do not think 
it would be fair for me to consider the merits of that claim or direct Shawbrook to do so. As 
such, I do not uphold this part of Mr Bs complaint.
s.140
The CMC has said that the alleged misrepresentations made by P created an unfair 
relationship between Mr B and Shawbrook. When Shawbrook asked for payment of interest and capital on Mr Bs loan then, as long as 
the loan remained outstanding, an unfair relationship was capable of being continued by 
Shawbrook. And so, its acts and/or omissions in continuing that relationship are valid 
matters of complaint to our service, both because they occur during the provision of a 
financial service (lending) and in connection with Shawbrooks performance of a regulated 
activity.
 
Mr B repaid his loan on 5 March 2014. Therefore, that is when his relationship with 
Shawbrook ended, and any potential unfair relationship must have ceased. 
Mr B first complained to Shawbrook that the relationship was unfair in January 2020., so the 
time limits in the Limitation Act would not apply to this part of the complaint  the claim 
having been made to Shawbrook within six years of the loan being repaid.
However, the complaint was not referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service within the six-
year time limit set out in DISP 2.8.2(2) R. The complaint was referred to this service on 23 
March 2020, whereas six years from the loan being repaid wouldve been 5 March 2020. 
I can still consider a complaint made outside of the six years if the complaint was referred to 
us within three years of Mr B becoming aware of the issue. Mr B alleges that he was told the 
system would be self-funding through the FIT payments. That is, that the FIT payments 
would be enough to cover the monthly loan repayments (or that if they werent then a 
government subsidy would be paid to cover the shortfall), so the system would not cost him 
a penny. 
Mr B registered for FIT payments and received them quarterly, along with a statement with 
each payment. There was no such government subsidy, so he did not receive this. So, I 
think he ought to have known how much the FIT payments were upon receipt of the 
statements. And that these did not cover the monthly loan repayments after he had received 
FIT payments covering at most one year (to allow for seasonal variations in electricity 
generation and the resulting FIT payments and electricity savings). And that there was no 
government subsidy being paid to him to cover the shortfall. 
In my opinion, the latest that Mr B ought reasonably to have realised this, and that the 
system wasnt self-funding in the way he was allegedly told, was between a year to 18 
months after the sale (allowing for a delay in the first payment, since it takes time to apply). 
The income Mr B received in that time was around £500. Whereas his loan repayments in 
the first year were over £1,000. So, Mr B ought reasonably to have known this by the end of 
2015 at the latest. So, three years from then would mean he had to refer his complaint to us 
by the end of 2018. He did not do so, so is outside of the six year and three-year time limits 
under DISP 2.8.2.
However, where a complaint is referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service outside of the 
six year and three-year time limits, I would still have the power to consider a complaint if the 
complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman within that 
period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint having 
been received  DISP 2.8.2 R (3).
In this instance Mr B first made a complaint (expressed dissatisfaction) to Shawbrook about 
the fairness of the relationship under s.140 on 21 January 2020. That was within six years 
set out in DISP 2.8.2(2) R. Shawbrook responded to that letter the following day, so Im 
satisfied that I do have the power to look at the complaint about a potential unfair 
relationship under s.140.
Can misrepresentations be considered under s.140? 
Under s.140A, the Court may make an order under Section 140B CCA (s.140B) in 
connection with a credit agreement, if it determines that the relationship between the creditor 
and debtor arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor due to a number of factors. 
Only a court has the power to decide whether a relationship between the credit and debtor is 
unfair under s.140A, but it is relevant law that I can take into consideration when determining 
what the outcome of Mr Bs complaint should be on a fair and reasonable basis.
 
The current case law sets out that misrepresentations can be considered under s.140A, and 
that a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done 
(or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. 
 
By virtue of s.56 CCA, P was acting as Shawbrooks agent when it was negotiating the sale 
of the system and the provision of the loan. And Ill take account of those negotiations when 
considering whether a Court is likely to find the relationship to be unfair under s.140A.
Given the above, I think its fair and reasonable to consider Mr Bs arguments about whether 
the benefits of the solar panel system were misrepresented to him, and if they were, to go on 
to determine whether a Court may consider that this would create an unfair relationship 
between Shawbrook and Mr B under s.140A.
Was there a misrepresentation?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr B says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be self-funding and 
not cost him a penny.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with Mr Bs testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to 
decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process, and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mr Bs 
version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the cash price of the system, the amount being borrowed, the 
interest to be charged, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments. Mr B has said that the cost of the system was documented as £7,500.00. He has said that 
this was done to mislead him as this figure did not include any interest associated with the 
loan, so it hid the true cost of the system, £12,056.40.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr B was told that the cost of the system was £7,500.00. The 
quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which clearly sets 
out that the cash price of the system was £7,500.00. The monthly payment was £100.47. 
The total amount of credit is £7,500.00 and the total amount payable £12,056.40.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr Bs recollections, Im satisfied that he was 
told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as set 
out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote, and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £7,500.00, it would cost 
Mr B more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan. 
Mr B has said that he was told the monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P as well as 
the Mr Bs recollections of their meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely 
to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr B could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr B could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £613.72, which results in an average monthly income of £51.14. As 
outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there would 
be a monthly loan repayment due of £100.47. The average annual income over 20 years is 
shown as £1,010.54. This is less than the £1,205.64 per year loan repayments. 
As a result, Im not able to conclude that the Mr B was told that the monthly loan repayments 
would be covered by the FIT payment alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr B could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £276.21 and the combined income and savings in 
year one is shown as £889.93. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together. And 
again, this is less than the annual loan repayments. 
The quote contains a graph titled earnings and savings against monthly payments year 1. 
This clearly shows that the monthly payments exceed the savings and income for most of 
the year.
Theres a section headed System Performance and Returns with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 
months because this is the length of the loan that Mr B entered into with Shawbrook. This 
table shows the loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £100.47. For each year of the 
10-year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that 
figure over 12 months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £100.47, to give an 
average difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan 
repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr B could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. And 
that there would be a shortfall between the combined income and electricity savings 
(accumulated grand total) and the monthly loan repayment for the first seven years. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall benefits he could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. 
This supports my finding above that Mr B wasnt told that the FIT payment would cover the 
loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about Mr Bs version of events. However, as Ive 
found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went 
through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that he was told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr B that the system would be self-funding. In doing so Ill 
again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the start. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr B was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 25 years. This shows that by year 11 the overall benefits that Mr B could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr B that the system would pay for itself by 
year 11, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P generally used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data for about ten years prior to the sale 
to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases 
between the sale and 2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the 
point of sale and I think this explains why Mr B hasnt been receiving the financial returns he 
may have been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower 
than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the 
system has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them 
as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr B couldve expected to receive 
from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been as high as 
estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable 
assumptions being used by P at the time Mr B entered into the contract.
The CMC has said in response to the adjudicators assessment that the system is not 
generating as much electricity each year as shown on the quote or MCS certificate. 
However, it has not previously raised this issue as part of this complaint. So, Shawbrook has 
not had an opportunity to investigate or respond to this issue. As such, I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable for me to make a finding on this point as part of this decision. If Mr B 
has concerns about the amount of electricity being generated, he should raise that issue with 
Shawbrook directly. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr B to enter 
into the contract for the system or created an unfair relationship with Shawbrook. And I have 
found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman