DRN-4301887
The complaint
Mr H complains that First Central Insurance Management Limited (First Central) requested 
information relating to his claims history in error, under his motor insurance policy.    
What happened
Mr H took out a motor insurance policy with First Central acting as administrator. Once the 
policy was set up it contacted him to ask for proof of his claims history, which he provided. 
But it didnt accept the format in which the information had been provided by his previous 
insurer. 
During a phone call with First Centrals agent, Mr H says he was lied to. He says it was 
subsequently discovered that First Central had made a mistake. This meant the request for 
information wasnt necessary. He says he spent a great deal of time trying to sort this out. 
Mr H asks that First Central refunds his premium and leaves his cover in place. He asks for 
an apology from a director, for the agents involved to undergo training, and to be 
compensated for the distress and inconvenience. 
In its final complaint response First Central says the data from the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE) database was incorrectly transferred. This was the reason for the error. It 
thanked Mr H for still providing the requested documents to validate his policy. It also paid 
him £150 compensation for the poor service hed received. 
Mr H didnt think hed been treated fairly and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He agreed that First Centrals mistake had caused 
Mr H inconvenience and frustration. But he thought its payment of £150 compensation was 
fair. 
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter.
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. I dont doubt that this matter has been 
frustrating and caused Mr H inconvenience. This is as a result of a mistake on First Centrals 
part. But Im satisfied that its done enough to put things right. Let me explain. 
I can see that First Central contacted Mr H to request proof of his claims history in March 
2023. It explained that some of his policy details may need amending. 
Ive listened to the call recordings the business provided between Mr H and one of its 
complaint handlers. Its apparent from these calls that First Centrals agent(s) had made a 
mistake. This happened when reviewing the CUE data relating to the non-fault accident Mr H 
had been involved in. During this call the complaint handler makes clear that there was no 
need for First Central to have requested the information it did.
During these calls First Centrals agent tells Mr H that the premium increase has now been 
reversed. He says this was only added due to its error when it thought Mr H was at fault for 
the accident hed declared. The agent says hed listened to a call between Mr H and another 
agent regarding this point. He agreed with Mr H that the previous agent handled the call 
poorly. He says she put the call on hold more than once, which was unnecessary. Also, that 
she spoke over Mr H, hadnt checked to see if a manager was able to speak to him, and 
made comments about changing the format of the document Mr H had provided, which 
wasnt something that needed to happen.  
The complaint handler agreed with Mr H that it was strange that First Centrals agent had put 
the call on hold to review the emailed information hed sent. But later in the same call shed 
said this information hadnt been provided. I can understand why Mr H found this frustrating.  
From listening to these calls, I note Mr H was initially offered £50 compensation. The matter 
was escalated when he didnt accept this. The compensation amount was later increased to 
£150, which was confirmed in First Centrals final complaint response.
Based on this evidence there was no requirement for First Central to request any information 
from Mr H once his policy had been put in force. The request for information was made in 
error. This meant Mr H had to contact his previous insurer to obtain proof he wasnt at fault 
for the accident. He then spent more time in calls with agents at First Central who were 
unhelpful. In these circumstances its appropriate that First Central compensates Mr H to 
apologise for the frustration and inconvenience it caused him. But I think £150 is fair, so I 
cant reasonably ask it to pay more. 
I acknowledge Mr Hs request to have his policy premium refunded and for his cover to 
remain in force. However, hes benefitted from having cover in place, which hes required to 
pay for as per the terms of his policy. Im satisfied the compensation payment adequately 
redresses the problems he encountered. 
Similarly, although I acknowledge Mr Hs request that First Centrals agents should undergo 
training, and that a director should provide an apology, this isnt something I can require. 
Were not the regulator and cant tell First Central how it should run its business. Our role is 
to determine a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Hs complaint. Im satisfied that the 
payment of compensation is sufficient in these circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman