DRN-3222059
The complaint
Ms M complains that despite changing her address, TSB Bank plc continued to send
correspondence to her previous address.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Ms M has explained that she was a victim of a serious attack in October 2020 and, as a 
result, had to move home. Ms M contacted TSB and changed her address in November
2020. Ms M has confirmed she told TSB why she needed to change her address.
Despite updating Ms Ms details, TSB sent a statement to the old address. Ms M says that 
when she contacted TSB to complain it denied a statement had been sent to the wrong 
address. TSB initially declined Ms Ms complaint but later upheld it and paid her £200. TSB 
also said it had updated Ms Ms address as requested.
Several months later Ms M contacted TSB again as she had found out it was still sending 
credit card statements to her old address.
Ms M referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
upheld the complaint and asked TSB to increase the award by £350, taking the total award 
to £550. Ms M also asked TSB to apologise which it agreed to do. Ms M asked to appeal 
and said she didnt think the compensation paid to date is a fair way to resolve her 
complaint.
As Ms M asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief above in setting out the background to this complaint. Im 
conscious Ms M has told us some very personal information about a particularly difficult 
experience and I dont want to cause unnecessary upset. All parties broadly agree about the 
background and timeline in this case. I can see that despite being asked to amend Ms Ms 
details on various occasions TSB continued to send statements to her old address.
I need to decide how to fairly resolve Ms Ms complaint. Given the reasons behind Ms Ms 
request that TSB to change her address, Id have expected it to take steps to ensure it was 
amended correctly. And in much the same way, I can understand why Ms M was so upset 
when TSB initially denied sending statements to her old address. Its clear TSBs initial 
denial any statements had been incorrectly addressed caused Ms M a considerable level of 
distress.
The problem has caused further upset to Ms M because despite assurances that her details 
had been corrected, TSB continued to send statements to her old address over a period of 
several months. Ms M has explained she only became aware of TSBs ongoing error after a 
third party was able to give her the statements that were sent to her old property.
In my view, TSB missed a number of opportunities to minimise the distress it caused and 
correct Ms Ms address. Given what Ms M has told us, I can see why she is particularly 
distressed that private information continued to be sent to her old address. Im satisfied TSB 
caused a significant level of distress to Ms M over a period of several months. Whilst Im 
pleased the overall award has been increased, I dont agree that the current compensation 
figure of £350 plus the original £200 TSB paid is a fair way to resolve this complaint.
Taking all the information Ive seen into account, I intend to uphold Ms Ms complaint and 
increase the settlement by a further £450, taking the total award to £1,000. In my opinion, 
that figure more fairly reflects the impact of TSBs errors on Ms M and is a fairer way to 
resolve her complaint.
I invited both parties to respond with any further comments or information they wanted me to 
consider. Ms M responded and asked about timescales for resolving her case. TSB 
responded and said it had agreed to write Ms M a letter of apology and an increased level of 
compensation. TSB said it didnt feel further compensation was justified. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M hasnt given us any new information to consider. Whilst I note TSB says it doesnt feel 
the total compensation figure of £1,000 is justified, I disagree. As I said in my provisional 
decision, Im satisfied TSB caused Ms M a significant amount of distress and inconvenience 
by its actions and that £1,000 fairly reflects that. I havent been persuaded to change my 
view, so Im going to proceed in line with my provisional decision and award Ms M a total of 
£1,000 for the distress and inconvenience caused.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct TSB Bank plc to pay Ms M a total of 
£1,000 (less any compensation already paid).  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman