DRN-3452149
Summary and background of the complaint
Mr M was the victim of an authorised push payment fraud when, in October 2020, he was 
induced by a supposed investment platform to send a payment of £537.50 using the HSBC 
UK Bank Plc (HSBC) debit card he had for his personal account. This payment was made 
to a legitimate crypto platform, Moonpay, and then passed on to the scammers online wallet 
from there. Mr M did this having been convinced that he was trading cryptocurrency for 
profit. When in fact, this outfit was operating a scam and his money was stolen.
Two or so months afterwards, Mr M complained to HSBC, citing that it ought to have done
more to protect him. He claimed this spending was unusual for him and HSBC shouldve 
recognised that. Also, that the bank ought to recover the payment via chargeback. HSBC 
didnt uphold the complaint because it disagreed. Mr M therefore referred the complaint to 
our service.
One of our investigators considered what happened and didnt believe HSBC ought to have
intervened with the payment before it was let go, as well as acting reasonably when
Mr M asked it to raise a chargeback. Because Mr M doesnt agree with this assessment, the 
matter has been escalated to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I am sorry to disappoint Mr M, I have reached the same
outcome as our investigator. Ill explain the key points that are material to my decision.
There are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account the relevant 
rules, codes and best practice  ought to have been on alert or notice that something wasnt 
right about the circumstances surrounding a transaction. It therefore can be an appropriate 
expectation for a bank to double-check payment instructions that ought reasonably to 
trigger concerns as to whether they are unusual or uncharacteristic for that consumer.
There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. Whats more, delaying a 
payment instruction could lead HSBC to breach the relevant regulations. In the particular 
circumstances of this case, I do not think it would be reasonable to expect HSBCs systems 
to have been triggered by the authorised payment in dispute. There is a lack of persuasive 
evidence that this transaction was significantly unusual or uncharacteristic compared with  
Mr Ms normal account activity in recent times. 
As well as this, Ive borne in mind that if banks such as HSBC were to be expected to 
intervene with every payment of a similar size to the one being debated here, it could risk 
grinding the banking system to a halt.
In addition to checking what its own internal systems ought to have told HSBC, Ive paid 
particular attention to the external organisations that publish official warnings about 
merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. Having done so, I dont think the bank could 
have known that this payment was being sent to a scammer. This is because we know the 
payee Mr M paid was not recognised as being a high risk according to the well formulated 
watchlists that HSBC ought to take notice of. 
On the contrary, as far as I am reasonably aware, Moonpay is a legitimate business, that 
was actually regulated in another jurisdiction in October 2020 (and continues to be so now). 
Suffice to say, a bank would have less concerns about a regulated payee, as illegitimate or 
illegal firms set up with the intention of scamming consumers are highly unlikely to submit 
themselves to regulatory oversight. With this in mind, there were not sufficient grounds for 
the payments to be delayed, or for HSBC to have looked beyond the payment going to 
Moonpay.
Besides, while banks such as HSBC do have a duty to protect customers against the risk of 
financial loss as the result of fraud and scams, when simply executing authorised payments, 
they do not have to give investment advice. And ultimately, Mr M paid a legitimate merchant 
as part of a venture to make profit (albeit, I recognise this was under the guise of a 
sophisticated scam set up by the fraudsters). 
Overall, Im not satisfied HSBC failed to identify a suspicious transaction, or an untoward 
recipient, that might have indicated fraud or financial abuse was being attempted. To that 
end, I cannot safely conclude that HSBC acted unfairly or unreasonably by not intervening.
I have also thought about whether the chargeback process was an option for Mr M. But as 
the scammer was not a party to the payment, Mr M couldnt have a valid claim against the 
legitimate company paid. This is because Moonpay, as a genuine crypto platform, provided 
the services as intended  which was to purchase cryptocurrency. The subsequent transfer 
to a different wallet (which is where Mr Ms loss occurred) would not give rise to an effective 
chargeback dispute  so I dont think Mr M had a legitimate chargeback claim. 
Taking everything into consideration, I am not satisfied that HSBC acted unfairly or 
unreasonably such that it should reimburse Mr M. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman