DRN-3703643
The complaint
Mr W complains that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) switched the value of his 
pension plan from a high performing fund to a poor performing fund without his knowledge or 
agreement. He says that the unexpected switch led to him suffering a financial loss of about 
£30,000.
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in his 
assessment which he provided to both Mr W and Scottish Widows. I dont intend to repeat 
here what our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
Mr W had a Scottish Widows pension plan. The selected retirement age was his 65th 
birthday in November 2021. The pension plan was set up to invest in a Scottish Widows 
lifestyle fund called the Adventurous Targeting Annuity Pension Investment Approach  the 
lifestyle investment approach meant that while Mr W was younger, Scottish Widows would 
manage the underlying investments to a higher level of risk to provide the potential for higher 
returns but, as he approached his selected retirement age, would gradually switch the 
investment into typically lower risk assets such as corporate bonds, gilts and cash. The 
switching process was automatic and designed to consolidate investment gains achieved in 
previous years and to minimise risk and volatility as he approached and took benefits at the 
selected retirement age.
The lifestyling process was completed in the month before Mr Ws 65th birthday  this 
resulted in the value of his pension plan being invested in two Scottish Widows funds: the 
Cash fund and Pension Protector fund with the expectation that he would take 25% tax-
free cash and secure an annuity with the residual fund. The stated aim of the Pension 
Protector fund was to, To provide a return consistent with the variations in market annuity 
rates with the aim of reducing annuity conversion risk. It was invested mainly in corporate 
bonds and gilts which have historically been seen as low risk with low volatility. Mr W didnt 
take benefits at age 65 and so his pension plan remained invested in those two funds.
The annual rate of inflation in the UK increased significantly from late 2021 onwards and 
continued throughout 2022. The high rate of inflation negatively impacted the value of 
corporate bonds and gilts during this period because investment markets expected higher 
interest rates in the future to combat the effects of higher inflation  increasing interest rates 
erode the purchasing power of bonds and gilts that pay a fixed payment, reducing their 
capital value. Since a large proportion of Mr Ws pension plan continued to be invested in 
corporate bonds and gilts beyond his 65th birthday, its value fell significantly from late 2021 
onwards as investment markets continued to believe that there would be higher interest 
rates in 2022 and in the foreseeable future.
This complaint
Mr W was unhappy about the significant fall in the value of his pension plan. He was upset 
that Scottish Widows had switched his pension plan into the Cash fund and Pension 
Protector fund without his knowledge or agreement. He couldnt understand why, based on 
historic performance tables, Scottish Widows had switched the value of his pension plan 
from what he considered to be a high performing fund to a poor performing fund.
Scottish Widows didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It stated that it had invested his pension 
plan in line with the agreed lifestyle investment approach. It explained the reasons why the 
value of his pension plan had fallen so quickly and significantly and that the issue was 
outside of its control. It recommended that Mr W seek financial advice.
Mr W didnt accept Scottish Widows response to his complaint and so referred the matter to 
this service. He expressed concern that there was a wider issue relating to Scottish Widows 
management of other pension plans because he had found evidence online of other 
customers with similar complaints to his. So he also wanted this service to look beyond his 
own complaint and into Scottish Widows wider policies and practices.
Our investigator didnt think that Scottish Widows needed to take any further action. This 
was because he was satisfied that it had clearly communicated to Mr W how his pension 
plan was invested including what would happen as he approached his 65th birthday. He was 
also satisfied that Scottish Widows had repeatedly recommended that he speak to a 
financial adviser  since Scottish Widows hadnt received alternative investment instructions 
from either Mr W or an adviser representing him, it continued to invest his pension plan in 
line with the agreed approach beyond his 65th birthday. While he acknowledged that Mr W 
was upset about the fall in the value of his pension plan, he didnt think Scottish Widows had 
made an error or had treated him unfairly. He explained to Mr W that this services role is to 
resolve individual complaints and that any concerns about Scottish Widows policies or 
practices would need to be referred to the regulator.
 
Mr W didnt accept our investigators assessment. He continued to believe that Scottish 
Widows was responsible for the mismanagement of his pension plan which had caused him 
to suffer a significant financial loss. He said that he didnt have a financial adviser and so 
was reliant on Scottish Widows to manage his pension plan for him. Our investigator 
considered Mr Ws additional comments but wasnt persuaded to change his view. Since 
agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Scottish Widows role, as the scheme administrator, was to manage Mr Ws pension 
plan in line with the agreed investment mandate, provide accurate and timely 
information, and to act on the instructions it received from him in a timely manner. It 
wasnt responsible for assessing the suitability of the underlying investment fund(s) in 
his pension plan or checking whether he wanted to change his plans about taking 
benefits at age 65.
When Mr Ws pension plan was set up, it was invested in a Scottish Widows lifestyle 
fund called the Adventurous Targeting Annuity Pension Investment Approach  as 
noted above, this was designed to gradually switch the underlying value of his 
pension plan into the Cash fund and Pension Protector fund in the month before 
his 65th birthday on the basis he would take 25% tax-free cash and secure an annuity 
with the residual fund. Its my view that Scottish Widows correctly managed Mr Ws 
pension plan in line with the agreed investment mandate.Scottish Widows cannot be held responsible for Mr W deciding not to take benefits at 
age 65 and instead leave his pension plan invested in those two funds beyond his 
65th birthday. As a result, its my view that it isnt responsible for any financial loss 
flowing from his decision to defer taking benefits.
Mr W said he couldnt understand why, based on historic performance tables, 
Scottish Widows had switched the value of his pension plan from what he considered 
to be a high performing fund to a poor performing fund. Under the lifestyle fund, Mr W 
had previously been invested in funds that had equity exposure, so Id expect the 
historic performance tables to show different growth rates between higher risk and 
lower risk funds  this is because the relationship between risk and reward is closely 
related. So while some funds are expected to achieve higher returns such as those 
that invest in equities, this comes with the greater risk of capital loss. Conversely, 
lower risk funds are expected to achieve lower returns, but this comes with the 
expectation of less risk of capital loss. This was the whole point of the lifestyling 
investment approach applied to Mr Ws pension plan  to reduce risk and volatility as 
he approached his 65th birthday with the target of securing an annuity. But there 
werent any guarantees and so what he eventually received would be based entirely 
on investment performance and annuity rates. I dont think Scottish Widows made an 
error switching the value of Mr Ws pension plan to the Cash fund and Pension 
Protector fund as he approached age 65.
It was unfortunate timing for Mr W. As explained above, the annual rate of inflation in 
the UK increased significantly from late 2021 onwards which negatively impacted the 
value of corporate bonds and gilts during this period. Historically, these asset classes 
have been considered low risk with low volatility  they rarely experience the kind of 
volatility and sharp fall in value over a short period of time as was experienced from 
late 2021 onwards and which continued throughout 2022. In my view, the reasons 
that led to the significant increase in inflation and the impact this had on the value of 
Mr Ws pension plan was unexpected and outside of Scottish Widows control.
Where the rate of inflation increases it usually leads to higher interest rates. Annuity 
rates are closely linked to interest rates. As interest rates have risen since late 
November 2021, annuity rates have increased too  this is a key point. So while the 
value of Mr Ws pension plan has fallen in value, the annuity rates available on the 
open market used to convert that fund into income have increased significantly 
during the same period  this means that less capital is currently required to secure 
the same level of annuity income than was the case before the value of Mr Ws 
pension plan fell in value. While I understand why Mr W is upset about the fall in fund 
value, its a fact that he now has access to higher annuity rates on the open market 
as a direct result of the reasons that led to the reduced fund value in the first place, 
effectively producing a broadly neutral outcome. 
Mr W was invested in a lifestyle fund called the Adventurous Targeting Annuity 
Pension Investment Approach. Annual benefit statements and other documents 
issued to him in the preceding years leading up to 2021 explained the basis upon 
which his pension plan was invested, and that Scottish Widows would continue to 
automatically switch funds as he approached age of 65 with the expectation that he 
would secure an annuity at that time. Im satisfied that Mr W was placed in an 
informed position about how his pension plan was managed. So I dont agree 
Scottish Widows switched the value of his pension plan without his knowledge or 
agreement.
Despite the information received, Mr W didnt switch the underlying investment of his 
pension plan before age 65. So I think its reasonable for me to conclude that it was his aim to secure an annuity. Scottish Widows cannot be held responsible if Mr W 
had changed his plans and decided not to secure an annuity when he reached age 
65. Alternatively, if he was unsure what to do, he shouldve sought financial advice. 
As noted above, it wasnt Scottish Widows role to advise Mr W.
Mr W wants to me to look into Scottish Widows management of other pension plans 
and its wider policies and practices. As explained by our investigator, were not the 
financial services regulator. So we dont police the industry or ensure that financial 
businesses adhere to the relevant rules and regulations. That is the role of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. Our role is to consider individual complaints and, in 
essence, to decide whether or not the financial business made an error or treated the 
consumer unfairly. Our aim in resolving the problem is to place the consumer, as 
close as possible, into the correct financial position had the error or unfair treatment 
not happened. In this case, while I understand why Mr W was frustrated and upset by 
the sudden and significant fall in the value of his pension plan, I dont think Scottish 
Widows made an error or treated him unfairly. Therefore, I dont consider it would be 
fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to direct Scottish Widows to pay 
compensation to Mr W  or to take any further action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman