DRN-4363358
The complaint
Mr M complains that RCI Financial Services Limited trading as Mobilize Financial Services 
(Mobilize) added additional products to his agreement which he did not agree to.
What happened
Mr M acquired a car from a supplying dealership in November 2022. To acquire the car, Mr 
M took out a hire purchase agreement with Mobilize. Mr M said he also agreed to take out a 
service plan, which included protection for things such as to the cars paint and to the leather 
seats in the car. He said he was charged individually for these plans, where separate direct 
debit payments were taken from his account monthly.
In June 2023, Mr M said he contacted Mobilize to obtain a settlement figure as he intended 
to acquire a new car. The figure he was given was higher than he expected, and he said he 
was told it was due to the other plans he had taken out and financed when he acquired the 
car. Mr M said he was not told that the other plans would be financed and subject to a cost 
for credit, or that the plans were non-refundable or transferrable.
Mr M complained to Mobilize. Mobilize responded and said, among other things, that Mr Ms 
agreement confirmed the breakdown of the funds borrowed to acquire the vehicle as well as 
the fixed sum loan taken out for the additional products. And so, they didnt think they 
needed to do anything further. 
Mr M, unhappy with Mobilizes response, referred his complaint to our service. He said he 
wanted a refund for payments already made to the service plan as it remained unused, and 
no claims were made against it. He also wanted compensation for the impact this complaint 
has had on his wellbeing.
Our investigator explained that he wasnt upholding the complaint. In summary, he explained 
he was satisfied the additional products were listed in Mr Ms agreement with Mobilize, which 
was signed by him. So, he was satisfied Mr M ought to have been aware that the products 
were taken out with credit at the point of sale.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators findings. He said, among other things, that he felt he 
was given misleading information by the salesperson and was not informed at the time that 
this was a financed service product.
As Mr M disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has said he was given misleading information by the salesperson when he acquired 
the car. I cant be sure what was said to Mr M at the time, so Ive relied on information and 
evidence I do have to make my findings.
I have seen a copy of the credit agreement, signed by Mr M. As Mr M signed the agreement, 
Im satisfied Mr M had sight of it and had the opportunity to read it carefully. On its first page, 
there are three columns labelled Agreement totals, Part A  Hire Purchase, and Part B  
Additional Products Loan. The column labelled Agreement totals broke down the total 
amount of credit taken out, the amount that would be payable on a monthly basis and went 
on to say,
Your Repayments under Part A and Part B of the Agreement will be collected by separate 
direct debits.
The final two columns  Part A  Hire Purchase, and Part B  Additional Products Loan 
broke down the duration of the agreements, the amount of credit taken out as well as the 
monthly instalments that were due.
Considering everything here, I think the agreement was clear in explaining to Mr M that the 
additional products he was taking out was through credit. I also think the terms of the 
agreement clearly set out the next steps if an early repayment was to be made in full.
Im mindful that Mr M would like a refund of payments to the products as he said it has 
remained unused. However, I dont think it is fair for Mobilize to give a refund in this 
instance. The products taken out were to protect against damage to certain areas of the car. 
So, Mr M essentially traded the risk of unexpected and potentially costly problems arising for 
the certainty of paying a fixed monthly cost. Fortunately, Mr M didnt need to use the plan, 
but I dont think it follows that payments should be refunded, as Mr M benefitted from the 
reassurance that the products protected him if he did need to rely on them.
In summary, I dont think Mobilize need to anything in this instance to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman