DRN-2668170
The complaint
  Mrs N complains that Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) irresponsibly increased the 
credit limit on a catalogue shopping account and continued to allow her to borrow when it 
should have been clear she was facing financial difficulties.
What happened
  Mrs N opened a catalogue shopping account with Studio Retail in March 2017. At that time 
her credit limit was initially set at £100. The credit limit was increased a number of times, 
reaching £1,100 in March 2019 before being increased for a final time in October 2019 when 
the credit limit was set at £1,400. Studio Retail then reduced the limit to £970 in July 2020, 
that it says was due to arrears on the account. Mrs N defaulted on her repayments in the 
same month and the debt was sold on by Studio Retail in October 2020 to a third party.
Mrs Ns complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that Studio 
Retail had done anything wrong initially. But he thought that by the time the credit limit was 
increased to £1,100 in March 2019, Studio Retail should have seen that Mrs N might be 
facing problems repaying what he owed. So, he didnt think that credit limit increase should 
have been agreed. And he thought that by September 2019, Studio Retail should have taken 
steps to freeze Mrs Ns account as it should have realised the credit was no longer suitable 
for him. So, our adjudicator asked Studio Retail to put things right for Mrs N.
Studio Retail has disagreed with our adjudicators view and thinks it has done nothing wrong 
at any stage it agreed to lend to Mrs N. It says based on what it had in front of it, that Mrs N 
was managing her accounts well and there was nothing to show that she was having 
problems with her finances, up to the point she started getting into arrears and it then 
reduced her credit limit. 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mrs N accepts my decision it 
is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mrs Ns complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time required Studio Retail to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether Mrs N could afford to repay what she owed in a
sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability
assessment or affordability check. The check needed to be completed at the outset of the
relationship and each time there was a significant increase in the credit limit. Studio Retail 
also needed to monitor the account for any signs that Mrs N was struggling to manage the 
credit shed been given.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Studio Retail had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs N. 
In practice this meant that Studio Retail had to ensure that making the required repayments 
wouldnt cause Mrs N undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt 
enough for Studio Retail to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it 
had to consider the impact of any repayments on Mrs N.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances at that time. In general,
what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number of
factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g.
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or
financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be, or has been, indebted for
(reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the
customer is required to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Studio Retail did what it needed to before agreeing 
to open an account for Mrs N, and to agree the subsequent increases to her credit limit.
Studio Retail has told us that it set, and managed, Mrs Ns credit limit by reference to 
information it received from a credit reference agency, and by looking at how Mrs N was 
managing her credit account. But although Studio Retail has very recently given us summary 
information about some of these checks, it hasnt given us any detail about the results it 
received on each occasion that it increased her credit limit.
The credit limit Studio Retail agreed when the account was first opened was relatively small - 
I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Studio Retail to ask Mrs N for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before opening the 
account. So, I dont think the original lending decision should cause me any great concerns. 
And I think the same applies to the increases to the credit limit that took place during 2017. 
During that time Mrs N appears to have operated her account relatively well, maintaining its 
balance within the agreed credit limit, and making the required repayments on time.
In May 2018, the credit increase that Studio Retail applied remained relatively modest. And
given the smooth operation of the account to that time I dont think that it would be
reasonable to expect Studio Retail to have gathered the additional it might have needed to 
identify any problems that Mrs N was facing. I think that its checks remained proportionate 
and that overall, they showed there was no reason for it to not increase Mrs Ns credit limit.
Towards the end of 2018, Mrs Ns outstanding balance increased to around £500. In March 
2019 the balance on account was around the same, and with this, Studio Retail increased the credit limit to £1,100. By then Mrs N had held the account for nearly two years and 
although there were times when she had repaid some of the balance on the account, at no 
time had she been successful in repaying all that she owed. I think that ought to have been 
of increasing concern to Studio Retail. It needed to do more than just check whether Mrs N 
could afford to repay what she owed when it increased her credit limit. It also needed to 
monitor her use of the credit facility over its lifetime. So, although Mrs N was operating her 
account relatively well, and making all her contractual repayments, I dont think that Studio 
Retail had any reasonable grounds to conclude that a further increase in Mrs Ns credit limit 
would be appropriate at this stage. 
In October 2019 when it increased Mrs Ns credit limit further, Mrs N had still not made any 
inroads to the balance on the account that she had accrued since December 2018 and by 
this stage she had held the account open for around 29 months. So, on balance, based on 
what I have just concluded, I dont think that it was reasonable for Studio Retail to increase 
Mrs Ns credit limit in October 2019 either. 
The repayments Mrs N had been able to make from December 2018 had little effect in 
reducing her outstanding balance. So, I think by September 2019 Studio Retail should have 
reached the point where it accepted Mrs N was facing problems managing her money. It 
should have treated her at that point with forbearance and with due consideration. I think an 
appropriate response would have been to prevent Mrs N from making any further purchases 
using the account and to stop the addition of any new interest.
So, in summary, I dont think Studio Retail should have increased Mrs Ns credit limit in 
March 2019 and it follows, October 2019 also. And I think that by September 2019 it should 
have stopped her taking any further credit and suspended the addition of interest to the 
account. So, Studio Retail needs to put things right for Mrs N.
 
Putting things right
 To put things right, Studio Retail should reconstruct Mrs Ns account by making the 
following adjustments;
I dont think Studio Retail should have agreed to increase Mrs Ns credit limit in March 2019. 
So, Studio Retail should remove any interest incurred on amounts from the date of increase 
in March 2019 onwards. It follows that this also includes the credit increase in October 2019.
I dont think Studio Retail should have agreed to allow any further purchases to be made
using the account from September 2019. So, Studio Retail should remove any interest and
charges (including delivery fees, Buy Now Pay Later interest, and PPP insurance
premiums) added to the account after 1 September 2019.
Studio Retail should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ns credit file that
wouldnt have been added if the above adjustments had been applied at the time.
If, after making these adjustments, Mrs Ns account was in credit at any time, Studio Retail 
should pay Mrs N interest at a rate of 8% simple* on the credit balance for the period it is in 
credit.
If a credit balance remains at the end of the calculations Studio Retail should refund that 
amount to Mrs N, adding interest at a rate of 8% simple* on the credit balance to the date of 
settlement.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio Retail to take off tax from this interest. Studio 
Retail must give Mrs N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mrs Ns complaint. I direct Studio Retail Limited to 
put things right as I have described above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman