DRN-4001509
The complaint
Mr S complains that BUPA Insurance Limited turned down his private medical insurance 
claim.
What happened
Mr S holds a private medical insurance policy with Bupa. In 2022, Mr S saw a consultant and 
was diagnosed with retinal vein occlusion with haemorrhages and macular oedema. The 
consultant recommended three injections, and also said Mr S may need three laser 
treatments.
Mr S made a claim to Bupa for the recommended treatment. Bupa turned down the claim as 
it thought that Mr Ss condition was chronic (as defined by the policy). Unhappy with this, 
Mr S brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought it had been
reasonable for Bupa to conclude that the condition was chronic and therefore excluded from
cover.
I issued my first provisional decision on 6 February 2023. Heres what I said:
The policy excludes chronic conditions. The policy says:
We do not pay for treatment of chronic conditions. By this, we mean a disease, illness or 
injury which has at least one of the following characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-
ups and/or tests
it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
it continues indefinitely
it has no known cure
it comes back or is likely to come back
The evidence that Bupa has provided (as referred to by our investigator) shows that long-
term monitoring is needed for retinal vein occlusion. Im therefore satisfied it would fall under 
the policy definition of a chronic condition.
However, the policy has an exception to the above chronic condition exclusion. This says:
We pay for eligible treatment arising out of a chronic condition, or for treatment of acute
symptoms of a chronic condition that flare up. However, we only pay if the treatment is likely 
to lead quickly to a complete recovery or to you being restored fully to your previous state of 
health, without you having to receive prolonged treatment
Bupa has referred to the 2022 policy wording which says that Bupa would only cover 
unexpected acute symptoms of a chronic condition that flare up. However, this change 
applied from the date Mr Ss cover renewed, which was in May 2022. The claim predated 
this. The policy wording Ive quoted above from 2021 therefore applies to the claim.
The consultant said she recommended three injections to treat the vein occlusion, and that 
this may need further top-up of laser  up to three treatments. She said she had advised 
Mr S that this was a new acute event, and she was very confident that the macular oedema 
should improve very quickly with a short course of treatment.
I think its apparent from this that Mr S was experiencing an acute flare up of his condition, 
and that his consultant expected the treatment to quickly address the symptom of macular 
oedema that he was experiencing. Im satisfied this would fall under the above exception to 
the chronic condition exclusion. I therefore find that Bupa should accept the claim.
I asked both parties to provide further comments if they wished to do so.
Mr S responded to say he accepted my provisional decision. He noted that Bupa had 
changed the 2022 policy wording, and said these types of changes are difficult for the 
average person to spot. He thought Bupa should bring them to the attention of the member.
Bupa responded with the following main points:
The chronic exclusion wording has not changed, only the 2022 wording clarifies what 
it means by flare-ups. The earlier wording didnt make it as clear as possible that only 
unexpected flare-ups are considered.
It says Mr S first asked it to authorise the treatment on 5 May 2022, which was 
shortly before the policy renewed. It says that any treatment which took place after 
the policy renewed should be subject to the 2022 policy wording.
It says the injections are not aimed to resolve the retinal vein occlusion. And the 
effect of the injections is temporary and must be given repeatedly over a year or 
more to treat the oedema, not the retinal vein occlusion.
I issued my second provisional decision on 22 February 2023. Heres what I said:
The 2021 policy wording does not say that only unexpected flare-ups of a chronic condition
would be covered. I therefore remain of the view that the claim for treatment in the 2021
policy year should have been covered. Mr S had an acute flare up of his condition which falls
under the exception to the chronic condition exclusion. I accept that the injections treat the
oedema rather than the retinal vein occlusion.
However, Bupa is correct that any claim for treatment which took place after the policy
renewed in 2022 would be subject to the new policy wording. Im satisfied that Mr Ss flare
up wouldnt be considered unexpected for his condition.
I mistakenly said in my first provisional decision that the policy renewed in May 2022. That
was incorrect, as the policy renewed in June 2022. I apologise for any confusion.
After we received the responses from both parties to my first provisional decision, we spoke
with Mr S to find out if he had any of the treatment privately before the policy renewed in
June 2022. He confirmed he had not. He said that he had paid to see a consultant and have
some scans, but then had laser treatment on the NHS in August/September 2022. He
confirmed that was because Bupa had turned down his claim. Mr S doesnt know if he still
needs the injections, but is due to see his consultant soon to establish this.
We also went back to Bupa to find out exactly when Mr S had started his claim for the
injections. Bupa confirmed that this was on 22 February 2022.It seems to me that if Bupa had authorised the treatment in February 2022, as I consider it
ought to have done, then Mr S would have likely had all the injections by the time the policy
renewed in June 2022 (though perhaps not the laser treatment). So Mr S has been
disadvantaged by Bupas decision to turn down the claim. Even though he has now had
laser treatment on the NHS.
We dont know for certain that Mr S still needs the injections, given the time thats passed
and the treatment hes had on the NHS. But if he does (and for the same reasons), I think it
would be fair and reasonable for Bupa to cover this given that Mr S should have had the
treatment before the policy terms changed in June 2022.
I also think it would be appropriate for Bupa to pay Mr S £300 compensation for the delay in
having his treatment. Even though hes had some of the treatment on the NHS (which may
well have resolved things), he had to go on a waiting list for this.
Mr S may wish to make a separate claim to Bupa for the scans and consultation he paid for
in 2022, if he hasnt already done so.
Finally, Mr S says that Bupa ought to bring policy changes to a members attention. Bupa
has provided a document confirming that the policy would change following renewal after 1
January 2022. This says:
Exclusion 6 Chronic conditions
We have amended the wording to the exception of this exclusion to clarify that we do not pay
for treatment of a deterioration or flare up of a chronic condition when it is an expected part
of the condition.
I understand this was provided to Mr S with his renewal pack in May 2022, and so Im
satisfied that the change to the policy was brought to Mr Ss attention in advance of the
renewal.
Bupa also says it made the decision to stop covering the injections for this condition in 2016,
though my understanding is that this was an internal decision made by Bupa, and not a
change to the policy terms.
I again asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make. 
Mr S provided details of the scans and consultation he previously paid for, and asked us to 
provide this information to Bupa. He also confirmed he accepted my second provisional 
decision. 
Bupa responded with the following main points:
Whilst it still thinks it declined the claim correctly, it appreciates that the change in 
policy wording was pivotal to my decision. 
It says it didnt stop Mr S from having the injections, and so it cannot be held 
responsible for his decision not to proceed with the treatment.
It thinks the fact that Mr S didnt have the injections on the NHS is possibly a 
testament that the flare-up had settled on its own. Therefore, it thinks its original 
decision to decline to cover the injections was likely to have been accurate.
Mr S has since had laser surgery which would have offered him long-term relief of his 
symptoms. It does not think it would be fair for Bupa to cover the cost of any future 
injections, as Mr S is aware that the policy wording has now changed.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has provided information relating to the scans and consultation he had privately. 
Though as I mentioned previously, if Mr S wants Bupa to make a payment for this then he 
would need to raise a new claim with Bupa directly. 
Bupa says it didnt stop Mr S from having the injections, and so it doesnt think it should be 
held responsible for the delay in Mr S having treatment. I disagree. Mr S couldnt pay for the 
treatment privately, and so he went on the NHS. He then had to wait a number of months 
before having laser treatment. Therefore, Bupas decision to decline the claim meant that 
Mr Ss treatment was delayed. I remain satisfied that it would be appropriate for Bupa to pay 
Mr S £300 compensation for this.
I dont know why Mr S didnt have injections on the NHS, and laser treatment was carried out 
instead. Although Bupa says the laser treatment would have given Mr S long-term relief from 
his symptoms, we dont know if thats the case. We also dont know if Mr S still needs the 
injections either. However, I remain of the view that if Mr S does still need the injections 
(because the laser treatment did not resolve his symptom of macular oedema), then it would 
be appropriate for Bupa to cover the cost of those injections on a fair and reasonable basis. I 
dont require Bupa to cover any laser treatment, since Mr S has already had this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require BUPA Insurance Limited to accept 
the claim for three injections, if Mr S still needs these to treat his symptom (subject to Mr S 
providing evidence of this to Bupa). The remaining policy terms would apply.
I also require Bupa to pay Mr S £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman