DRN-2595509
The complaint
 A limited company, which I refer to as Y, complains that Clydesdale Bank plc failed to 
conduct proper periodic inspection of the construction works being carried out on its 
commercial building before agreeing the phased release of funds to the developer.
 In bringing this complaint Y is represented by its director who Ill refer to as Mr H.  
What happened
In December 2018 Y borrowed £250,000 from Clydesdale to help fund the development of 
premises from which it intended to run its business. 
The loan was provided on the basis it would be a development loan for the duration of the 
build. But once this was completed, in or around March 2019 as anticipated, the loan would 
be converted to a five-year commercial mortgage after inspection by the banks surveyors to 
confirm the value and condition of the development.
The first drawdown on the facility took place in December 2018. By around March 2019, over 
£248,000 had been drawn on the facility. 
Unfortunately, following local authority inspection, certain elements of the build were found 
not to have complied with relevant building regulations.
Despite attempts by the developer to put things right Y says this hasnt been successful. It 
believes rectification of the defects by a fresh contractor will be needed at a cost in the 
region of £300,000. 
Y has argued that Clydesdale are partly responsible for what has happened. It believes if 
through appropriate inspections Clydesdale had made sure all necessary approvals and 
local authority sign offs were in place before releasing funds to the developer, it wouldnt be 
in the position it has since found itself. 
Clydesdale didnt think they had done anything wrong. In essence, they said the banks role 
in providing the loan to Y was as a funder only. They argued that the bank wasnt the builder, 
surveyor or construction partner and didnt defectively construct the development. They felt 
that throughout the build the Relationship Managers (RM) role was fairly limited and 
therefore didnt think liability for the defective construction lies with them as opposed to the 
developer appointed by Y. 
Y didnt agree with Clydesdales conclusions and referred its complaint to this service., 
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Although she acknowledged there were quality 
issues when the building was purportedly completed, she didnt think Clydesdale was 
responsible for them. In summary, she concluded:
Clydesdale had decided for their own purposes they didnt need a monitoring 
surveyor and Y was aware that during the development, the role of monitoring 
surveyor wasnt being carried out by anyone. 
The RM was only checking cashflow and that the work done by the developer was 
consistent with the invoices presented before releasing the staged payments. So, 
she didnt believe the RM was stepping into the role of a monitoring surveyor to carry 
out the work that otherwise would have been the surveyors responsibility.
Given the decision the bank made, Y could have appointed its own monitoring 
surveyor if it had chosen to do so.  
Overall, the investigator didnt think that Clydesdale had done anything wrong.
Y didnt accept the investigators conclusions. On its behalf Mr H further amplified the 
arguments Y had originally made against Clydesdale. Mr H also provided additional 
comments - which I summarise: 
Clydesdale and the RM put forward the idea that a monitoring surveyor wasnt 
needed and could be dispensed with and instead the RM would assume that work 
himself at a cost of £250 per visit. 
The crux of the complaint is that the bank didnt follow the terms of the jointly signed 
facility agreement when it came to the drawdown of the funds to pay the developer. 
In particular, section 5.3 (b)(iii) which mentioned important monitoring requirements 
for the surveyor. 
In correspondence with its conveyancing solicitor the RM said the developer would 
be required to send all invoices directly to him and that he would need all certification 
before releasing any money. At each drawdown Y asked the RM whether he was 
happy with the visit and whether he had all that he needed to release funds to the 
builders. He said he had. 
If the RM had secured the necessary certification which were needed throughout the 
build, the building would have passed on completion. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I start by acknowledging this has been a very difficult time for Y. It had hoped to be running 
its business from newly constructed premises. This hasnt been possible because it hasnt 
been able to secure the important completion certificate from the local authority building 
control due to the quality issues associated with the build.
But, if Im to uphold Ys complaint I have to be satisfied that in relation to the build, 
Clydesdale has done something wrong. That means I have to be persuaded that in relation 
to the development Clydesdale failed to act in accordance with the obligations and 
responsibilities the RM assumed. And furthermore, that this resulted in the failure of the 
building to meet the standards necessary for it to pass local authority building control 
inspection and receive a completion certificate. 
Y has argued that RM effectively assumed that role of the monitoring surveyor but failed to 
discharge those duties properly and in accordance with the terms of the Facility Letter. 
Y has referred to clause 5.3 in the Facility Letter and in particular Clause 5.3 (b) (iii).The 
relevant clause says:
 5.3 The Development Facility may be drawn in tranches which may only be 
drawn:
(a) on a Business Day; and
(b) if prior to each drawing the bank has received, and is satisfied as to 
the form and content of, an original certificate of the monitoring surveyor appointed by the bank from time to time in connection with 
the Development addressed to the bank which confirms that:
(i) work has been carried out or services provided to the value of the 
aggregate amount of the proposed utilization of the Development 
Facility;
(ii) the expenditure incurred (for which payment is requested) is in 
accordance with the cash flow statement delivered to and approved by 
the Bank in connection with the Development;
(iii) all necessary approvals, consents, licences and permissions have 
been obtained by the Borrower are in place in respect of the Property, 
in each case, for the current stage of the Development;
Both Clydesdale and Y have acknowledged that a qualified monitoring surveyor wasnt 
appointed to oversee the build. Clydesdale says that although for this type of development 
facility they would engage an independent monitoring surveyor at the borrowers expense, in 
the circumstances of Ys case this didnt appear to be necessary. Largely, they said  
because quotes for this service were expensive relative to the amount they were lending, the 
substantial equity stake Y already had and the fact Y was using a well-known local 
developer. So, they agreed to waive this requirement. 
It seems to me this was a legitimate commercial decision Clydesdale was entitled to take, 
and Y hasnt said it disagreed with this decision. So, I agree with the investigator that 
ultimately what that meant was both Y and Clydesdale agreed that a monitoring surveyor 
report wouldnt be needed before each tranche of money was released to the developer. In 
other words, the contract between Clydesdale and Y was changed by mutual agreement and 
one of the banks formal requirements  the appointment of a monitoring surveyor was 
removed. In saying that and particularly having regard to Clause 5.3 (b) (iii) it is worth noting 
the responsibility for obtaining necessary consents, approvals and permissions rested with Y 
as the Borrower. 
I next consider the crux of Ys argument which is that the RM assumed the role of monitoring 
surveyor. 
Y says the RM suggested he would manage the drawdowns himself, by visiting the site each 
time and then release the funds once he was happy that everything was in order. And Y also 
says it was under the impression that the site visits costing £250 per visit were to be carried 
out so that the RM could check what work had been done and ask to see relevant paperwork 
such as site inspection by building control. And according Y it expected the RM to have had 
the experience and knowledge to check the appropriate paperwork.
Ive read the early correspondence between the RM and Y to determine what responsibilities 
he was assuming in relation to the build and in the absence of a monitoring surveyor. 
On 5 November 2018 in an e-mail to Y the RM said:
In addition to this there are the security fees for a debenture and a legal mortgage 
(£600 quoted) together with my management time in monitoring each drawdown 
which I agreed with you would be £250 per visit..the rates and fees that I have 
quoted to you are competitive and with most commercial banks you would have also 
had to engage a monitoring surveyor (fees outlined to you had this been the case in 
my e-mail of 22/12/17
Clydesdale says the duties assumed by the RM in such circumstances was a basic drive 
past by the RM to take photos of the work which would then be matched against the invoices 
submitted. So, the RM visiting the site wasnt intended to be engaged in anything other than to ensure the development was proceeding and the claim for works done corresponded with 
the cash flow for those works. 
From the RMs e-mail on 5 November 2018 as well as those that were sent by RM to Y when 
funds to the developer were being released with Ys approval between December 2018 and 
April 2019, I am satisfied the RM was assuming duties of a far narrower scope than those of 
a monitoring surveyor. The RMs e-mail of 5 November 2018 does not suggest he was 
accepting responsibility for monitoring the project to ensure it was built to the agreed 
specification and in accordance with building regulations in the same way a monitoring 
surveyor would. And, Im satisfied the later e-mails that were sent during the progress of the 
build bears this out.  
It therefore wasnt the RMs responsibility to check or provide any assurances to Y that the 
property had been completed in line with building regulations and free from defects. I am 
satisfied that the RM was simply checking invoices against cashflow for works done. I 
havent been persuaded that his responsibilities and obligations went as far as a 
commitment of the type Y describe. It follows I do not find that Clydesdale were in breach of 
them.  
So, in summary, given the limited nature of the duties the RM assumed in relation to the 
building project, I dont think that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances to say 
that Clydesdale was responsible for the unsatisfactory nature of the work and should 
therefore be held responsible for the cost of putting things right.  
My final decision
   My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman