DRN-4095925
The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle). 
What happened
In October 2022, Mr H entered into a hire purchase agreement with Oodle to acquire a used 
car first registered in June 2014. At the time of supply the car had travelled approximately 
78,895 miles. The total cash price of the car was approximately £9,495. The total amount 
payable under the finance agreement was approximately £15,458. The first payment on the 
agreement was around £306 followed by 58 monthly payments of £256 each. There was one 
final payment after that for the sum of approximately £306.
On 16 January 2023 Mr H contacted Oodle to tell them that the cars injector had failed, and 
the cars warranty wouldnt cover the cost. He said that he paid approximately £620 to get an 
injector replaced which, he believes, Oodle should refund to him. The injector was replaced 
on 13 January 2023 and the car had travelled approximately 3,737 miles since point of 
supply. 
Mr H also reported to Oodle that other injectors needed replacing too. Overall, he wanted 
Oodle to refund him the cost of all injectors repair and further costs that he had incurred due 
to the issues with the car. Some of these costs include hiring a car, taxi expenses, and 
compensation for the days Mr H had to take off work to deal with the car issues. Mr H also 
said that Oodle caused him hardship due to unnecessary delays when they were dealing 
with his complaint. More specifically, he was unhappy with the amount of time he had to wait 
to find out whether the cost of the diagnostics and repairs would be covered or not. 
In March 2023, Oodle wrote to Mr H. In this correspondence they explained that they 
referred the car for an independent inspection, which found that the cars overall physical 
condition was in line with a car that has covered 80,000 miles and that it wouldve been fit for 
purpose and of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. Oodle said that the report further 
explained that injectors needing replacement on a car with 80,000 miles would be classed as 
normal in-service maintenance, not a result of a mechanical or material failure. Also, it would 
be classed as normal age-related wear and tear and not premature wear. Oodle also 
elaborated further, when asked, confirming that this was not a durability issue and would not 
be classed as premature failure. But Oodle said that as a gesture of goodwill, without any 
admission of liability, theyd contribute £324 towards the repairs associated with the 
injectors.
Mr H was unhappy with this, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think it was fair to ask Oodle to do anything further regarding Mr Hs 
complaint. She believed the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. And that 
the car problems Mr H experienced were due to wear and tear.
Mr H disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Mr H acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. Oodle is the supplier of 
the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for dealing with complaints about 
their quality. Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements such as the one Mr H 
entered into. Under the agreement there is an implied term that the goods supplied will be of 
satisfactory quality. The CRA says that goods will be considered of satisfactory quality where 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into 
account the description of the goods, the price paid and other relevant circumstances. I think 
in this case those relevant circumstances include, but are not limited to, the age and mileage 
of the car and the cash price. The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general 
state and condition and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability.
In Mr Hs case the car was used, with a cash price of around £9,495. It had covered
around 78,895 miles and was approximately eight years old when he acquired it. So, the car 
had travelled a reasonable distance and its reasonable to expect there to be some wear to it 
as a result of this use. Id have different expectations of it compared to a brand-new car. As 
with any car, there is an expectation that there will be ongoing maintenance and upkeep 
costs. There are parts that will naturally wear over time, and it is reasonable to expect these 
to be replaced. And with second-hand cars, its more likely parts will need to be replaced 
sooner or be worn faster than with a brand-new car. So Oodle would not be responsible for 
anything that was due to normal wear and tear whilst in Mr Hs possession. But given the 
age, mileage and price paid, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person wouldnt expect 
anything significant to be wrong shortly after it was acquired.
First, I considered if there was a fault with the car. Ive seen the invoices provided by Mr H 
and Ive seen a copy of the independent inspection commissioned by Oodle. All of this 
evidence clearly indicates that the car had faulty injectors that needed replacing. So, Ive 
gone on to consider if the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr H.
Oodle provided a copy of the independent report that was commissioned by them, which 
concluded that the injectors need to be replaced. But the report said that on a car that has 
covered over 80,000 miles this would be classed as normal in-service maintenance.
The report said that the current symptoms are not due to a mechanical or material failure 
and are due to natural wear and tear through general usage. This has only developed into 
an issue that required rectification after the cars purchase. So, Ive considered this. And Ive 
also considered that Mr Hs car passed its MOT with no advisories around the time of supply 
on 19 October 2022. 
Taking the above into consideration, I think most likely, the issue of the faulty injectors is one 
that a reasonable person would expect to see given the age and mileage of the car. And the independent report concluded that it was down to wear and tear. So overall, Im satisfied that 
most likely the issues are commensurate with the age and mileage of the car. Based on all 
the available evidence I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Oodle to do anything 
further regarding Mr Hs complaint.
I know that Mr H was also unhappy because he said that Oodle caused him hardship due to 
unnecessary delays when they were dealing with his complaint. More specifically, he was 
unhappy with the amount of time he had to wait to find out whether the cost of the 
diagnostics and repairs would be covered or not. But based on the contact notes provided by 
Oodle, I dont think there were any unreasonable delays caused by them. And Oodle 
contributed £324 towards the diagnostics/repairs associated with the injectors. So overall, 
while I sympathise with Mr H for the difficulties that he is experiencing, taking all the 
circumstances of the complaint into account, I dont think Mr H has been treated unfairly by 
Oodle.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman