DRN-3299607
The complaint
Miss R complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very didnt approve 
a payment break. 
What happened
Miss R has explained she applied for a payment break with very around March 2020 but 
didnt receive a response. Despite making a further two applications, very didnt respond 
until 17 April 2020 when it confirmed Miss Rs payment break request had been turned 
down. Very confirmed its position in writing and asked Miss R to get in touch to see what 
options it could offer to provide support. 
Miss R complained but very didnt agree it had treated her unfairly. Very said Miss Rs 
account was in arrears when she applied for the payment break and didnt agree it had acted 
unfairly by reporting missed payments to the credit reference agencies. 
Miss R referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Miss R 
pointed out no arrears were showing on her account when she first asked Very for help. 
An investigator looked at Miss Rs complaint but thought very had dealt with it fairly so didnt 
ask it to take any further action. Miss R asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres some discussion about when Miss Rs account was in arrears. I know the credit file 
indicates it was March 2020, but the statement information Ive seen shows Miss Rs 
payment wasnt made in February 2020. Im satisfied no payment was made in February 
2020. 
Miss R has pointed out her credit file shows the February 2020 payment as made, but the 
March 2020 as missed. Very has confirmed thats because the credit file in question reports 
the payments a month in arrears. I understand Miss Rs view that this is confusing, but it 
doesnt impact the key issue raised which is whether very acted fairly by declining the 
payment break. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued its Payment Deferral Guidance to businesses 
in April 2020. The guidance said businesses could offer a customer a payment break of 
three months without impacting their credit file. There was an option to extend the payment 
break by a further three months. But, the FCAs guidance explained the a payment break 
wouldnt be right for all customers, especially if they were experiencing financial difficulties 
that werent temporary. 
Miss R has told us she first applied in March 2020. But, as noted above, the option for a 
payment break under the FCAs Payment Deferral Guidance didnt come into effect until 
April 2020. So when Miss R first asked for a payment break, there was no option to take one 
without impacting her credit file. 
Miss R has complained that it took too long for very to confirm whether it could offer a 
payment break. But the FCA guidance came into effect on 9 April 2020 and very issued its 
response to Miss R around a week later. I know Miss R had to wait some time for verys 
response, but I havent found evidence of unreasonable delays. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss R but I dont think very acted unfairly when it declined the 
payment break she asked for. Im satisfied very followed the FCA guidance when it 
considered Miss Rs request for a payment break. 
I can see Miss R is concerned by how the missed payments impacted her credit file. But as I 
havent found very acted unfairly by declining her payment break request, Im not persuaded 
its unfair to record arrears information on her credit file.
As Im satisfied very dealt with Miss Rs complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further 
action.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman