DRN-3255021
The complaint
Mr O complains that Trading 212 UK Limited (T212) closed his share dealing account and 
sold his shares without his consent. 
What happened
Mr O held an account with T212, which he used for buying and selling shares.
In July 2021, T212 asked Mr O for proof of the source of the funds he was depositing with 
them. But they didnt receive the requested documents in time, so in August 2021 they took 
the decision to place a Sell-Only Limitation on his trading account. 
Mr O then provided some of the information asked for, but T212 didnt feel this was enough 
and on 23 August 2021 wrote to him to say theyd taken the decision to close his account.
As part of the process of closing the account, T212 sold Mr Os shares. The first set of 
shares was sold on 24 August, and the funds returned to Mr O on 30 August. The next set of 
shares was sold on 10 September, but the funds werent returned until 12 October. The final 
shares were sold on 21 December and the funds returned on 22 December.
Mr O raised a complaint with T212 about their decision to close his account and sell his 
shares. He said he had recently suffered a bereavement when T212 requested the 
information, so thats why he hadnt been able to provide it in time. 
T212 didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They said the terms of Mr Os account allowed 
them to close it if they didnt receive relevant information that they asked for. They said at 
the time they issued the notice to close theyd been waiting six weeks, which they thought 
was adequate time to supply the information requested. They didnt offer to do anything 
further.
Unhappy with this answer Mr O referred his complaint to our service  he also complained 
about the service received from T212, such as having his communication attempts ignored. 
He was unhappy with the decision they took to sell his shares and that the value of his funds 
wasnt what he expected.
One of our investigators looked into what happened but didnt think T212 had been unfair. 
She said it was reasonable of the firm to block the account in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. She said when they hadnt received the information from Mr O by 
their deadline, they were within their rights to terminate the account and sell the shares. She 
accepted there was a delay in returning some funds to Mr O, but that this was outside of 
T212s control. She was also satisfied the reduction in value of Mr Os holdings was down to 
market fluctuations. 
Lastly, she could appreciate why Mr O had been frustrated by the process hed been 
engaged in, but didnt think the service provided to him had fallen short of expectations. She 
didnt feel T212 had deliberately ignored him but had provided the appropriate information on 
what they required and what was happening, and it was up to Mr O to engage with the 
process.
Mr O disagreed, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to assure Mr O that I have considered all the evidence on file, and in particular 
I have paid special attention to all the submissions he has made. But Ill be concentrating on 
what I think is relevant, which the rules of our service allow me to do. If I dont comment on a 
specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I 
dont need to comment on it to reach my decision.
Mr O has alleged several actions by T212 are unlawful or illegal. Only a court can make a 
decision on the lawfulness of a business actions. Our services remit is to resolve 
complaints quickly and informally, based on what the ombudsman feels to be fair and 
reasonable. We take in to account the law, alongside relevant regulations, guidance and 
what we consider to be good industry practice. 
Its right to say that as a regulated financial business T212 have legal and regulatory 
obligations to monitor accounts and understand how the account in being operated. This can 
involve asking a consumer for further information to confirm their identity, and source of 
funds, as happened here. And if they dont receive the information they require, then its not 
unreasonable for them to place restrictions on the account. So, I dont see that T212 have 
done anything wrong by asking Mr O for further information, or by restricting his trading 
account until the information was available.
I understand this happened at a very difficult time for Mr O, and I sympathise with the 
difficulties he was going through. But I can see T212 were clear in what they were asking for, 
and what the consequences of not providing it might be. I can also see Mr O provided some 
of the information requested and was in regular contact with T212. I also have to consider 
that T212 hadnt received all the information theyd requested in the reasonable timeframe 
theyd set. 
The terms of Mr Os account allow T212 to place a Sell-Only limitation on the account or 
end the relationship with him if they feel hes breached his obligations to them. Mr O has 
highlighted that T212 changed their terms several times during the time the account was 
open. I agree this is the case, but all the various terms across the lifespan of the account 
have similar provisions for restricting and closing accounts. 
Taking into account what Mr O has told us and having reviewed the communication between 
the parties during this time, I dont see that T212 have been unreasonable in closing the 
account. 
Ive considered whether it was reasonable for T212 to sell Mr Os shares, rather than 
allowing them to be transferred to another provider. The terms of the account say 
Trading 212 will not facilitate the transfer of Investments to another firm. The Investments 
held in your account will need to be liquidated and cash can be transferred to another firm. 
So, I can accept why T212 didnt pursue that option.
Mr O has provided screenshots from T212s website that under a question Can you sell my 
shares without permission? it says No. We do not close positions /sell shares on your behalf unless there was an event that forced us to undertake such action  e.g. a given 
company has filed for bankruptcy or it has been delisted from the market.. 
I would consider the closing of the account to be an event that would force T212 to take this 
action, as the terms are clear that they wouldnt transfer them to another account. The 
reasonable expectation would be that T212 should dispose of Mr Os shares promptly and 
return the available funds to him without undue delay.
I can see Mr Os shares were sold by T212 in three sets. The first set was sold on 24 
August, and the money returned to Mr O on 30 August, which is a reasonable timeframe.
The second set were sold on 10 September, but the money wasnt returned to Mr O until 
12 October. This does seem an unusually long delay in the funds being released. But having 
reviewed the evidence available, Im satisfied this delay wasnt the responsibility of T212.
The last set of shares were sold on 21 December, and the funds returned on 22 December. 
Ive looked in to why these took much longer to be sold than the previous sets of shares, and 
Im satisfied this was down to the shares being suspended by the regulator at the time. This 
would be outside T212s control, so not something I could reasonable hold them responsible.
T212 owed Mr O its best execution when selling his shares. Ive reviewed the transactions 
they keyed when ending their relationship with Mr O, to ensure they met with their 
obligations to him. 
Having reviewed these transactions, I can see T212 carried out the sales in line with their 
policy on order execution, achieving a fair price for Mr Os assets. Im therefore satisfied its 
met with its obligations to him and treated him fairly.
Having reviewed the correspondence between Mr O and T212 I dont find the service Mr O 
received to have been unreasonable. I appreciate Mr O found the experience incredibly 
frustrating, and as mentioned previously this was at a difficult time for him. But I find that 
T212 had been clear in their correspondence about what they needed from him, and later 
what the closure of the account meant for him. They arent under any obligation to respond 
to every single email or query and considering the volume of contact it would be 
unreasonable to expect them to do so.
Overall, I dont find that T212 have done anything substantially unfair or unreasonable in 
restricting and then closing Mr Os account in the manner they did. I understand Mr O feels 
very strongly about his complaint, but I dont find that hes been treated unfairly by T212 and 
as such Im not asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman