DRN-3487762
The complaint
Mr M complains that Creation Financial Services Limited lent irresponsibly when it approved
his credit card application.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
In May 2018 Mr M applied for a credit card with Creation. In his application, Mr M said he 
was self employed with a monthly income of £2,000 and applied for a balance transfer of
£5,000. Creation carried out a credit search and found credit card and loan accounts in 
Mr Ms name. Creation says it took the monthly costs of servicing those debts into 
account as well as Mr Ms accommodation costs.
Creation says it used a figure of £1,298 for Mr Ms outgoings which left £751 from his 
monthly income. Creation says it then used 50% of that monthly income for Mr Ms regular 
living expenses which left £351 as disposable income. Creation approved the application 
with a credit limit of £1,800.
In 2019 Mr M experienced some difficulties maintaining payments. After Mr M provided 
medical evidence Creation agreed to refund interest and charges to July 2019.
Mr M complained that Creation had lent irresponsibly but it didnt agree. An investigator at 
this service looked at Mr Ms complaint but thought Creation had dealt with it fairly and 
didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly. Mr M asked to appeal, so his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Creation had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mr M could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. 
These affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. The 
nature of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various 
factors like:
-The amount of credit;
-The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments;
-The duration of the agreement;
-The costs of the credit; and
-The consumers individual circumstances.
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Ive thought carefully about whether Creations checks went far enough. Based on the 
information Ive seen so far, Ive reached a different view to the investigator. I dont agree 
Creation lent responsibly when it approved Mr Ms credit card. Ill explain why.
When Creation looked at Mr Ms application it used his declared income of £2,000. I 
appreciate Mr M has told us his income wasnt in line with that figure when he applied, but 
as the figure was given in his application I dont think it was unreasonable for Creation to 
use it in its lending assessment. That being said, I dont think the level of outgoings 
Creation used was reasonable.
Creation says it used Mr Ms accommodation costs of £389 as well as credit card and loan 
payments. Mr M has provided a copy of his credit report from 2018 and it shows his 
outstanding balances were broadly in line with the figures used by Creation. Im satisfied 
Creation used reasonable figures when assessing Mr Ms accommodation cost and 
unsecured credit payments when he applied. The figures Creation used indicated Mr M had 
around £702 remaining to cover his remaining outgoings.
Creation used 50% of this figure for the rest of Mr Ms living expenses - £351. But Im not 
persuaded thats a reasonable figure. Mr Ms application explained he was solely 
responsible for his living expenses. That figure would be required to pay regular outgoings. 
Examples of the living expenses Creation needed to think about are Council Tax, utility 
bills, phone bills, internet access, food, clothes, transport and insurance. Im not 
persuaded that a figure of £351 was sufficient to sustainably cover Mr Ms regular living 
expenses as set out above, in addition to a new credit card.
In my view the application information showed a lack of capacity for further borrowing 
and shouldve caused Creation to complete better, more comprehensive checks. I dont 
agree the checks Creation carried out were proportionate.
Creation couldve asked Mr M for further evidence to support his application, like bank 
statements or evidence of his income. There were other options open to Creation as well. 
Mr M has sent us copies of his bank statements that precede the Creation application. Mr M 
has also provided some evidence to show his income at the time. They show Mr Ms 
income was substantially less than £2,000 a month.
In my view, had Creation completed better checks it wouldve found Mr M wasnt in a 
position to sustainably afford further borrowing. If Creation had carried out proportionate 
checks, I think it wouldve declined Mr Ms application.
As I think Creation lent irresponsibly I intend to tell it to refund all interest and charges 
applied from the date his application was approved to the date his account was closed. In 
addition, I dont think its fair for Creation to report adverse information where its lent 
irresponsibly. So I also intend to tell Creation to remove all adverse information recorded 
about Mr Ms credit card.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or points they wanted me to 
consider before making my final decision. Mr M responded to say he accepted the 
provisional decision. We didnt hear back from Creation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has sent in new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Ms complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Creation Financial Services to settle 
as follows: 
- Refund all interest, fees and charges applied from the date the credit card was
approved to the date it was closed
- If an outstanding balance remains once these adjustments have been made Creation 
should contact Mr M to arrange a suitable repayment plan taking account of its 
obligation to act positively and sympathetically. Creation should ensure it considers 
Mr Ms circumstances when deciding how to proceed
- If the above refund results in a credit balance, Creation should refund it to Mr M
along with 8% simple interest from the date the overpayments were made until the
date of settlement
- Delete all adverse information recorded about the credit card from Mr Ms credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman