DRN-3433244
The complaint
Mr M says Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat, lent to him
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr M took out two instalment loans from MoneyBoat. A summary of his borrowing follows.
*Loan 2 was outstanding when Mr M brought his complaint to this service, I understand it has since
been repaid in full.
Mr M says the loans were unaffordable for him, he had a high level of payday loans which
should have been picked up. He also raised a query about the amount of interest charged on
loan 2 but I can see from his email of 25 January 2022 this is now resolved.
Our adjudicator did not recommend Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He said
MoneyBoats checks were proportionate and there was nothing in the information to suggest
Mr M was struggling financially. He said given Mr Ms income level he felt it was reasonable
for MoneyBoat to lend without completing further checks.
Mr M disagreed, saying the timing and amount of his second loan should have triggered
additional checks. He maintains the lender was irresponsible.
As an agreement wasnt reached the case was passed to me to make a decision. I reached 
a different conclusion to the adjudicator, so I issued a provisional decision. An extract follows 
and forms part of this final decision. I asked both parties to send in any comment or new 
evidence by 13 April 2022. 
Extract from my provisional decision
In the early stages of a lending relationship less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. However, in line with the relevant regulations, we expect a lender to have 
proper regard for any information it gathers from the checks it decides to do. And this is why 
my findings differ from the adjudicators.
MoneyBoat says it asked Mr M for information about his income and expenditure when
he applied for the loans. It says it checked his declared income against bank statements and
using an external income verification service. It also carried out a credit check both times.
From these checks it calculated Mr Ms monthly disposable income which showed the loans
were affordable for Mr M.
I agree that the checks MoneyBoat carried out were proportionate. But Im not persuaded 
that it had proper regard for the information it gathered and then made responsible lending 
decisions.
Ill explain why.
Loan 1
The credit check showed that Mr M was heavily indebted (£45,841 across his loans and
credit cards); was over his combined credit card limits (102% utilised); had 17 active
accounts; made the minimum payment on his cards 32 times in the last 12 months; and was
using his cards to withdraw cash. There were 68 searches in the last 12 months. He was
currently spending around 48% of his £4,500 income on his existing credit commitments,
excluding payday loans. And he had three such active loans. And had taken out 17 
short-term high-cost loans in total through 2019.
From this information I think MoneyBoat ought to have realised Mr M was having problems
managing his money and was most likely in an expensive cycle of borrowing to repay. So to
give loan 1 to Mr M would extend his reliance on short-term high-cost credit and the loan
could not be sustainably affordable in these circumstances.
It follows I think MoneyBoat was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr M.
Loan 2
Mr M applied for loan 2 just over three months later and only one day after settling his first
loan. It was seven times the value of loan 1. The credit check MoneyBoat completed showed
Mr Ms finances remained under pressure with little change in his overall debt level. The
monthly repayment for loan 2 was much higher at around £446 taking the amount of his
income Mr M would need to service his debt to around 57%. I think from these factors
combined MoneyBoat ought to have realised loan 2 would most likely not be sustainably
affordable  so Mr M would need to borrow again to meet his repayments or suffer some
other adverse financial consequence.
It follows I think MoneyBoat was wrong to give loan 2 to Mr M.
I havent seen any evidence MoneyBoat acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in
some other way.
I then set out what MoneyBoat would need to do to put things right if I went on to uphold 
Mr Ms compliant.
Mr M accepted my provisional decision. MoneyBoat did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive followed it 
here.
As neither party provided any new information or evidence I have no reason to change the 
findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision. It follows I find MoneyBoat was wrong to give loans 1 and 2 to Mr M.
Putting things right - what MoneyBoat needs to do
refund all interest and charges (including the court fees) Mr M paid on his loans;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about the loans from Mr Ms credit file;
HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat must give
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ms complaint. Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as 
MoneyBoat.co.uk, must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman