DRN-3921251
The complaint
Mr B complains that Financial Administration Services Limited trading as Fidelity 
International (Fidelity) failed to notify him and advise about trading alternatives when he 
was unable to trade on Fidelitys online platform. 
To put things right, Mr B wants Fidelity to pay redress to put him into the financial position he 
wouldve been in if hed been able to trade as he said he had hoped to on 
12 September 2022. 
What happened
Mr B holds a dealing account on Fidelitys investment platform which enables him to buy and 
sell holdings via its online platform or by phone or by post.
12 September 2022 - following a rights issue by a company Mr B held shares in, he logged 
into his online account. Mr B was aware this was the first day of the rights issue and he 
expected to see his rights listed on his account. Although he could see and trade all his other 
securities, he couldnt see the rights showing in his account.
15 September 2022 - Mr B sent a secure message to Fidelity. He said that when hed logged 
into his account on 12 September his rights werent available to him to sell and, as the price 
had since dropped by more than a third, he was looking to Fidelity for compensation.
21 September 2022  Fidelity made contact with Mr B and apologised for a technical error 
which had meant hed been unable to place a deal online in respect of his rights. It confirmed 
that he was now able to sell his tradeable rights online  and he still had until close of 
business the next day to do so.  
22 September 2022  Mr B sold the rights, at a price substantially lower than the peak price 
hed seen on 12 September. He told Fidelity he expected it to pay him the difference.
There was an exchange of correspondence and, in summary, Fidelity said: 
its investing platform allowed clients to invest in a wide variety of assets but there 
could be exceptional times when that wasn't possible
when Mr B was unable to place the transaction online, he could have contacted 
Fidelity by phone and it would have been able to place a manual request, ensuring 
he received the price at the time he wanted to sell 
as Mr B hadnt given Fidelity any instruction to deal on 12 September, it wasnt able 
to offer any price correction and didnt agree it owed him compensation. 
Mr B brought his complaint to this service for an independent review. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint. In brief summary, she supported Fidelitys position 
and didnt agree that Fidelity was liable for the negative impact on Mr B of the delay in selling 
his rights. 
Mr B didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to reach a final 
decision on his complaint. He mainly says:
the investigators view is fundamentally flawed. 
It was impossible for him to attempt a trade when the securities were not allocated to 
his account.
The online platform was working fine  but Fidelity had not allocated these rights to 
be able to be traded on his account. 
Fidelity knew of the error but failed to notify Mr B or any of its clients.
Fidelity is not being held accountable for its mistakes which is severely undermining 
Mr Bs confidence in the financial services sector and this whole process. 
Fidelity's online platform is designed for speed and convenience and Mr B had 
wanted to use it to quickly sell his holdings. He didnt have time during the work day 
to ring Fidelity and hold on the phone for 20-30 minutes  which had been his 
previous experience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carried out an independent review and having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator and Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain my 
approach and how I've reached my decision.
Mr B has written in some detail explaining why he feels Fidelity should pay him 
compensation and I appreciate how strongly he feels about this complaint. We provide an 
informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive approached the 
complaint. Whilst Ive summarised things in my own words, Ive carefully read and 
considered everything hes said. Its part of my role to identify and concentrate on the core 
issues I need to address in order to reach a fair outcome. This means I wont necessarily 
mention everything Mr B has brought to my attention as the purpose of my decision isnt to 
address every single point raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by both 
parties and reach a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
I will comment on everything that makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint.  
My findings are made on a balance of probabilities, in other words, what is more likely than 
not, based on the evidence that has been provided by the parties. In simple terms, to uphold 
this complaint, I would need to find that Fidelity was responsible for an error or that it acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in some way and that this caused Mr B financial loss.
It seems to me that the crux of Mr Bs complaint is that he could not sell his tradeable rights 
online when he logged in to Fidelitys platform on 12 September 2022.
Fidelity has explained that it experienced a technical issue which meant clients were unable 
to see their tradeable rights online on 12 September. 
Fidelitys terms of business, which Mr B agreed to in order to be able to trade on its platform, 
explain that Fidelity makes no warranty or representation that its service can be accessed at 
all times and on occasions it may be temporarily unavailable or restricted for administrative 
or other reasons. So I think this went some way towards managing Mr Bs reasonable 
expectations. Nonetheless, I would expect Fidelity always to act in a fair and reasonable 
manner, so I've thought carefully about what happened.
A key part of Mr Bs complaint is that Fidelity should have contacted its clients to alert them 
to this technical issue and provided advice about workaround solutions. Had it done so, Mr B says he would have sold his rights on 12 September. But despite the fact that Mr B was 
prevented from seeing or being able to manage his rights online in the way he expected, 
Mr B could nevertheless still have placed selling instructions that same day. Leaving aside 
the possibility of using the post which wasnt a viable option in these circumstances, I still 
think he had a couple of valid alternatives open to him.  
Mr B could have phoned Fidelity. The terms and conditions of his account already allowed 
him to place trades by phone. So I dont think there was any particular onus on Fidelity to 
notify clients they could do this. 
Mr B was already aware that he could contact Fidelity by phone because he mentioned 
having done this previously. 
I do appreciate why it was inconvenient for Mr B to phone Fidelity on 12 September rather 
than operate his account by his usual preferred online method. But he could also have made 
contact with Fidelity via secure message. Mr B was familiar with the secure messaging 
system. Even if he hadnt been able to make enough time to try phoning, he couldve sent a 
quick secure message enquiring about the problem and had he done so, Fidelity couldve 
explained how he could take things forward if he wanted to sell that day. 
I havent been provided with any information showing that Mr B tried unsuccessfully to call 
Fidelity on 12 September or that he sent a secure message that day  his first contact about 
this issue seems to have been his secure message sent to Fidelity some three days later. By 
then, hed left it too late for Fidelity to be able to sell his rights at the price hed seen on 
12 September. 
And I agree with Fidelity that it wasnt clear from that message on 15 September that Mr B 
wanted to sell. So I cant fairly or reasonably find that Fidelity should have taken steps 
sooner to execute sale of the rights. Within a week or so it had written to Mr B confirming 
that the technical issue was fixed and he would be able to sell the tradeable rights online. 
Fidelity told Mr  B that if he experienced any issue he could call on a freephone number it 
provided or reply back to its secure message and said it could place a manual deal for him. It 
also confirmed that the deadline to sell the rights was extended to the end of the next day. In 
the event, the following day Mr B went online and arranged the sale of his rights.  
All in all, I cant fairly conclude that Fidelity was responsible for Mr B not being able to sell his 
rights on 12 September when:
he could have contacted Fidelity on 12 September by phone or secure message and 
discussed the problem he encountered when he found his online trading intentions 
were frustrated 
had he done so, he wouldve found out Fidelity couldve placed the trade that day
by including relevant information in its terms of business, Fidelity had already taken 
reasonable steps to make Mr B aware that he wasnt limited to online trading only  
there were other options he could have followed up which would have avoided him 
missing out on trading on 12 September
Fidelity actioned the sale of the rights promptly and in accordance with Mr Bs online 
instructions on 22 September 2022.
This means that I cant fairly or reasonably find that Fidelity is responsible for Mr B losing out 
on the price he hoped to achieve by selling his rights on 12 September as he could still have 
executed the trade anytime, irrespective of the fact he couldnt sell his tradeable rights 
online.  So I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint and it follows that I cannot award the compensation 
he seeks. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B. I am aware that he takes a different view to me and 
he strongly believes that Fidelitys admitted error is enough of a reason for it to compensate 
him. But I hope that the way I've set things out helps explain why I have come to a different 
conclusion. And although this isnt the outcome he hoped for, Mr B will at least feel that this 
complaint has been fully considered. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman