DRN-3681910
The complaint
Mr G complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) didnt provide the 
service it should have when dealing with his chargeback claim. 
What happened
Mr G made a purchase using his AMEX credit card. Unfortunately, Mr G didnt receive the 
item he purchased and contacted AMEX about a refund. AMEX raised a chargeback claim 
which was defended by the merchant and the claim was closed. Mr G didnt agree with this 
decision as he said evidence hadnt been provided that he had received the item. Mr G says 
he was told he would need to provide proof he didnt receive the item. Mr G did this and 
received a refund. However, Mr G says that he shouldnt have been told to provide proof of 
non-receipt as the requirement was for the merchant to provide proof that the item had been 
delivered. Mr G says that trying to resolve this issue took time and caused him 
inconvenience and he wants to be compensated for this.
AESEL issued a final response letter in February 2022. It said that its disputes team closed 
Mr Gs case against the merchant when the merchant supplied evidence to support the 
charge. It said it was its usual process to close a case when the merchant provides 
evidence. It said Mr Gs case was then reviewed and his payment to the merchant was 
refunded but it noted this could be reversed if the merchant provided further evidence. 
AESEL said it hadnt done anything wrong in the handling of Mr Gs claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She thought that AESEL had handled Mr Gs 
chargeback claim fairly.
Mr G didnt agree with our investigators view. He reiterated that under the card providers 
rules the merchant had to provide proof the item had been delivered and it wasnt for the 
customer to provide proof the item wasnt received.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As has been explained by our investigator, chargeback is a process in which a disputed 
payments can be returned if a customers dispute is successful. There are various card 
schemes the relevant card scheme for Mr Gs complaint is provided by American Express. 
The scheme sets out the reasons for a chargeback claim and the requirements associated 
with this. Mr Gs claim was for Goods and Services Not Received.
In this case, Mr G has been provided with a refund for the item and his complaint is about 
the time spent and inconvenience he was caused dealing with this issue.
While I understand why Mr G is upset at the process he went through and I note the 
comments he has made about the evidence he was required to provide, in this case I do not 
find that AESEL acted unreasonably. I say this because AESEL raised Mr Gs chargeback 
claim when Mr G contacted it about the item not being received and the payment for the item 
was suspended on his account. This is what we would expect to happen.
When a claim is raised, the merchant is contacted. The merchant defended the charge. It 
provided evidence to AESEL saying that the item Mr G had purchased was shipped to his 
address in November 2021. AESEL has said that when a charge is defended it closes the 
case and contacts the customer about this. Having looked at the evidence provided by the 
merchant I do not think that AESEL acted unreasonably by closing the case. This is because 
the scheme rules set out that a dispute can be challenged if evidence is provided that shows 
the goods or service were delivered to the card holders address. I note Mr Gs comments 
about the merchants evidence but having considered this, I do not think that AESEL acted 
unreasonably by accepting the merchants evidence and closing the case at this time.
Mr G didnt agree to his case being closed and said that he shouldnt have been asked to 
provide evidence that the item hadnt been received. I appreciate his comments about 
evidence of non-receipt, however, as the merchant had defended the charge, I can see why 
Mr G was advised of how the case could be reopened. In this case it meant providing 
counter evidence to show the delivery hadnt happened. I appreciate that this process took 
Mr G time and caused him inconvenience but on receipt of the evidence he provided the 
refund was applied.
Therefore, while I agree that the scheme rules dont require a consumer to provide proof of 
non-delivery for a claim to be taken forward, looking at the circumstances of this complaint, I 
do not find, given the merchants evidence, that AESEL did anything wrong by the actions it 
took. Therefore, while I appreciate the issue caused Mr G inconvenience, I do not require 
AESEL to pay him compensation.  
My final decision
My final decision is that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) isnt required 
to do anything further in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman