DRN-4005986
The complaint
Mr P says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) bought his loan and the 
freehold title deeds to his property without his consent.
What happened
Mr P says he took out an interest only, buy to let, loan with a third-party lender for around 
£100,000. Mr P says he arranged this through his solicitor in 2010 and was required to give 
the third-party the freehold title deeds to his property as security. 
Mr P says Halifax now owns the loan having purchased it from a broker. Mr P believes 
Halifax now holds the freehold title deeds he provided, and he wants to know how Halifax 
took over the loan and the deeds without his consent. He is also unhappy Halifax sent Law 
of Property Act (LPA) agents to attend the property when he stopped paying the 
contractual monthly payments (CMPs).
Mr P understands the property records are held electronically by Land Registry now, but hes 
concerned the records dont confirm he owns the freehold, only the leasehold. So, Mr P 
believes Land Registry has been misinformed and he wants the original documents he 
handed over to the third-party lender, so he can prove he owns the freehold.
Halifax issued a final response letter but only commented on Mr Ps direct debit and the LPA 
agents. It said LPA agents were sent to the property in May 2021 due to the level of arrears 
on Mr Ps account. And confirmed Mr Ps direct debit was cancelled in May 2020 and no 
further payments had been made up until then. 
Mr P remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into his concerns and explained why they didnt think the complaint should be upheld. As 
Mr P disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain why.
Mr P has sent us a number of letters to highlight his specific concerns and from these, it 
seems Mr P believes he never took out a loan with Halifax. It was for this reason he 
cancelled the direct debit in May 2020 when he noticed it. Mr P is unsure how this came 
about and so he is concerned Halifax now hold the title deeds to his property which he 
believes he handed over to a third-party lender when he originally took the loan in 2010.
Ive thought about this carefully, but I havent seen anything to support what Mr Ps said. 
Halifax has provided copies of an application form and a mortgage offer it issued to Mr P in 
2010. This is the around the same time Mr P says he took the loan out, for around the same 
amount, and around the same CMP. So, these documents suggest the loan is and always 
has been with Halifax. 
Mr P says he wants to know which broker was involved, but I havent seen anything to 
confirm a third-party broker was involved other than the solicitor he says was acting on his 
behalf. While Mr P says he didnt agree to the loan being taken with Halifax, as Ive said 
above, the paperwork from the time of sale clearly indicates Halifax was the lender. I havent 
been made aware of any problems with Mr Ps direct debit prior to him cancelling it in 
May 2020. So, it would seem Mr P paid his CMPs to Halifax for around 10 years without 
concern. Considering this, I think its more likely than not Mr P applied for a loan with Halifax 
in 2010 rather than the third-party lender hes referred to. And I think its more likely than not 
Mr P knew this at the time even if he doesnt remember it now.
As Mr P stopped making his CMPs for a period of around one year, Halifax instructed LPA 
agents to chase the arrears on his account and I dont think this action was unreasonable in 
the circumstances. I know Mr P is unhappy as he says the agents threatened his tenants for 
the arrears, but he hasnt provided much detail about this and, in any case, if Mr P is 
unhappy with the actions of the LPA agents he would need to complain directly to them 
about that. 
Mr Ps representative managed to resolve the situation fairly quickly by arranging payment of 
the arrears totalling £6,556.46 and they also completed a new direct debit instruction to 
commence in August 2021. I understand Mr P wasnt happy with this and has since 
cancelled the instruction again, but as Ive explained above, Mr Ps loan is held with Halifax, 
and he is obliged to make his CMPs on time if he wants to avoid any unwanted 
repercussions of missed payments. 
I understand Mr P is also concerned about where the original title deeds to his property are 
as he believes Halifax has altered the records.  Its unclear what happened to the original 
document, but as Halifax has already explained, Land Registry keeps this information online 
and the information Mr P seeks is viewable there. 
Mr P has already confirmed hes seen records confirming he owns the leasehold to the 
property. And our investigator has provided a copy of the records confirming the freehold is 
owned by a company which Mr P says hes a member of. So, I dont think Halifax has done 
anything to change ownership of the freehold on Mr Ps property, and the information 
displayed online can be relied upon without paper copies of title deeds. 
Halifax does hold a first charge on the property, but this is to be expected as Halifax is the 
mortgage provider. Halifax will remove the first charge when the loan is repaid in full.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman