DRN-3515543
The complaint
Mr K has complained about his motor insurer U K Insurance Limited as he feels it unfairly 
found him at fault for causing an accident.
What happened
Mr K and a driver of another car had an accident. Mr K said he had finished turning out from 
a side road when the other driver, driving too fast, overtook him on his left-hand side, and 
knocked into him at a shallow angle, damaging the front wing of each car. The other driver 
said Mr K had just pulled out from the right causing the accident. 
UKI felt it couldnt defend Mr Ks position. It said that the front-end damage on both cars 
seemed to support the other drivers version of events. It also felt it was important that Mr K 
had said he hadnt seen the other car until there was an impact  which suggested he hadnt 
checked his mirrors as he should have done. Mr K said the angle of impact had been very 
shallow, happening as the other car passed him  so any impact was also light with the 
natural forces acting in such a way injury would have been impossible. UKI  said however 
that the courts recognise that even minor impacts can cause injury. So it accepted, on a 
without prejudice basis, that Mr K was liable and it settled the other drivers claim for car 
damage and hire car costs.  
Mr K complained. He said he felt UKI had ignored his explanation about the mechanics of 
the impact and what that must mean for who was at fault  for causing the incident. He said 
he had also discovered further damage to his car  there was paint transfer on his rear 
wheel arch. A photo was provided. He said this supported his version of events, meaning the 
other driver had clearly been at fault, most likely not paying attention. UKI issued a final 
response. It referenced the front-end damage only and said that noting the road positioning 
of each driver  Mr K having been turning onto a main road where the other driver was 
already established  if the claim went to court, a finding in favour of the other driver would 
be the most likely outcome. It said it was still awaiting medical evidence about the injuries 
claimed for. Mr K remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator felt UKI had come to a fair and reasonable decision. Mr K said he didnt 
think UKI had taken into account all the damage sustained to his car. Our investigator asked  
to UKI about this and it said the photo Mr K had provided had been overlooked. But it said it 
didnt think that changed anything. It said that it felt that all of the damage to both cars 
supported the other drivers version of events. It also said that the damage sustained to the 
other car was not suggestive of a side impact having occurred.
The complaint came to me and I issued a provisional decision, the findings of which were:
As our investigator has explained, this service does not determine which party was liable for 
an accident. Rather we consider what the insurer did to determine if it reached a fair and 
reasonable decision on the liability issue. We take into account that the policy allows the 
insurer to handle a claim in the way it sees fit. And that this sometimes may mean its 
policyholder disagrees with the decision it reaches. But, generally speaking, if the insurer 
decides to settle another drivers claim on the basis of its policyholder being liable, whilst  
showing that it would most likely have been unable to successfully defend its policyholder if 
the claim had progressed to court, well likely find its decision was fair and reasonable.
Here there are clearly two very different versions of events. And it seems there is no CCTV 
evidence available to show what happened or any independent witnesses. There are only 
the accounts of Mr K and the other party to explain what happened. And Mr K has said he 
didnt see the other driver until the impact occurred, and also that he doesnt know exactly 
where he was along the road when it happened. So his account isnt wholly compelling and 
I note UKIs concern that the court may view Mr Ks lack of awareness of the other car as an 
indication that he was not paying attention to his surroundings. 
I know Mr K has put together some mathematical detail which he says explains as a matter 
of fact that he was not in the wrong. But I see UKI feels this is unverifiable because Mr K has 
also said he didnt know exactly where he was, in relation to the junction he had pulled out 
from, when the impact occurred. I can understand why UKI would think it would be difficult to 
rely on the mathematical explanation in light of the uncertainty about location. 
In reference to Mr K having said the collision occurred whilst the other car was overtaking 
him, UKI has said that the damage to the other car is not suggestive of it coming into contact 
with the side of Mr Ks car. And it notes that whilst Mr Ks car is showing signs of paint 
transfer over the rear wheel arch, it thinks the absence of similar damage to the other car is 
more supportive of the other drivers version of events. I know that is not wat Mr K thinks the 
evidence shows. But I think this disagreement serves to point out that evidence can be 
viewed in different ways. Now its possible that if UKI sought to defend Mr Ks liability in 
court, the court might agree with Mr Ks assessment of the evidence. But its also possible 
that itd come to a similar view to that which UKI has expressed (as summarised by me). 
Which brings me back to the overarching principal I explained at the start. Were UKIs 
prospects for successfully defending this claim good? Im not persuaded they were. So 
I think its decision to accept, on a without prejudice basis, that Mr K was at fault for the 
accident, was fair and reasonable.
But the other element to the settlement is the actual loss UKI settled for or, in the case of 
injuries, agreed to consider. Mr K has raised concerns both about the other car having been 
unroadworthy and written off, as well as that injuries were claimed for by the other party. So 
I need to think about whether it was reasonable for UKI to settle for or agree to consider 
those losses rather than defend the extent of the claim.
Because the other car was unroadworthy, the other driver had been given a hire car and was 
claiming the cost of this from UKI. Mr K said he couldnt understand why the other car was 
unroadworthy as it just had a dent in it. I can understand why Mr K would be concerned. But 
it was an engineer acting for the other driver which had said the car was unroadworthy. And 
UKI had its in-house engineer review the damage to the other car. UKIs engineer confirmed 
the unroadworthy determination. He explained that he felt the damage had caused a gap in 
the bodywork making it unsafe to drive. I know Mr K still contends that view. But two experts 
have concurred that the car was unroadworthy. As such I think UKI acted fairly and 
reasonably when it chose not to contest the hire car costs.  
Mr K says the other car was written off but this seems extreme as there was no structural 
damage. The engineers report on the other car though explained that the damage would 
cost a few thousand pounds to repair and the car was only worth £800. On that basis it was 
recommended to write the car off as a total loss. So I dont think the write-off was based on 
structural damage having been caused. I havent seen anything which makes me think UKI 
could reasonably have challenged the engineers opinion about either the repair cost for or 
value of the other car.I know that regarding injures Mr K believes none could have been sustained due to the way 
he believes the cars came together. But as Ive noted above, its far from clear that a court 
would accept his view as the most likely one. And I note that UKI says that, in its experience, 
a court will accept that some injury can occur even with only a minor impact. But it also 
explained that, regarding the injuries, it would have to be led by the medical evidence 
received. I think thats a fair and reasonable response by it. That evidence was outstanding 
at the time of UKIs final response to Mr K. I havent seen anything that was available to it 
prior to that final response being issued that makes me think it should have been altogether 
refuting that any injury had occurred.  
 
I understand it was frustrating for Mr K that UKI didnt consider his photo or the full extent of 
the damage sustained by his car. But I note that he sent this to UKI as part of his complaint 
to it about its decision to find him at fault for the accident. He intimated in that email that he 
had recently discovered the additional damage. And Ive seen nothing to suggest this 
damage was identified and drawn to UKIs attention earlier during its claim assessment of 
Mr Ks liability for the other drivers loss. So, Im not persuaded it failed Mr K by not properly 
considering the claim. The fact that UKI overlooked this evidence when responding to Mr Ks 
complaint is not something I can comment on. Thats because the remit of this service does 
not extend to considering a financial businesss complaint handling activity. 
UKI didnt comment on my provisional findings. Mr K disagreed with them. In summary he 
said:
There was no front-end damage  both cars were damaged at the side, so the sides 
must have come together.
Photos and diagrams clearly showed the other car must have hit him at a shallow angle.
If he is to be criticized for not checking his mirrors, then the accident cant have 
happened as the other driver claimed.
He could have made his account more compelling if he had lied, but he was honest  
and he thinks I appeared to be suggesting he should have answered dishonestly.
His mathematical explanation is not unverifiable as it works backward from the angle of 
impact.
If the courts recognize that minor impact has caused injury when it has not, then the 
courts would be inept. Hed like to know if this is what UKI is arguing.
The real question is given what we know about the impact  could it have caused the 
claimed for injury?
Whilst the other car may technically have been a write-off the engineer for the other party 
recorded it as, Mr K says; category B write off: fit only to be broken for spares  this 
clearly cant be correct, Mr K says, because the only issue making the car unroadworthy 
is a gap in the bodywork which would cost nothing to fix. 
Mr K concluded by saying:
Given the clarity of the picture painted by the physical damage, the idea that the prospects 
of defending the claim were not good can only be true if the judiciary are typically incapable 
of processing evidence or understanding basic geometry. The insurance industry clearly has 
far more experience than I in this regard, so if you say that that is right, then I will have to 
believe it, but it is a matter of considerable concern which I will have to take up with the 
ministry, so I would appreciate it if you could confirm your position on this.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive summarised Mr Ks response to my provisional findings above. But I can assure him Ive 
considered its full content. However, my findings here will remain focused on the issues at 
the heart of the complaint which are necessary for me to determine in order to decide 
whether or not UKI has acted fairly and reasonably. So, I wont be answering Mr Ks 
questions or providing confirmation for him on wider points such as that detailed in his 
concluding paragraph which Ive quoted above.
The main damage to both cars is on the side of each, but towards the cars front-end and 
includes the left-hand end of the front bumper on Mr Ks car. It was only this front-end 
damage which UKI explained and initially referred to in its final response  negating to 
comment on the damage towards the rear-end of Mr Ks car, above the rear wheel arch. 
I can understand UKIs point that the particular damage sustained above and around the 
front wheel arches of both cars, and on Mr Ks car towards the rear, is not indicative of the 
majority of the side of each car connecting as it might at a shallow impact angle (the shallow 
angle argument having been put forwards by Mr K). 
Clearly Mr K cant understand UKIs point. But I think that is because he is set in his 
understanding of how he believes the accident occurred. That is, as both cars were 
preceding almost parallel and where the other car collided into him. All of his arguments, 
explanations, diagrams and theories are predicated on this being the absolute truth. The 
problem for Mr K though is that the other driver views things differently and, in handling the 
claim, UKI has to take a reasoned view of which party the courts might prefer to believe. 
And, even if the courts believed Mr K, Mr K said he had not seen the other car until the 
impact occurred. So UKI felt the courts might still find fault with Mr K for not having been 
sufficiently aware of his surroundings. I remain of the view that UKIs decision to accept, on a 
without prejudice basis, that Mr K was at fault for the accident, was fair and reasonable. If 
Mr K wishes to test his theories further himself, he is welcome to reject my final decision, 
withdraw his claim from UKI and take the other party to court to contest the liability issue.
Mr K has said that the question about injuries can only be answered given what he says we 
know about the impact. But as Ive explained, I dont think the impact issue is as clear cut as 
he believes. 
I appreciate that Mr K thinks the other car wasnt so damaged to amount to a category B 
write-off. But the nature of write-off didnt change the settlement UKI paid. And the write-off 
categorisation was made by an engineer, in a formal report which confirmed the assessment 
had been completed in-line with the industry standards for writing off vehicles. Im not 
persuaded there were any grounds for UKI to reasonably challenge that decision.
Having reviewed everything, I find that my thoughts on the complaint, as stated provisionally, 
have not changed. As such, my provisional findings, along with my further comments here, 
are now the findings of this, my final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against U K Insurance Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman