DRN-3262229
The complaint
Mr G complains that he was not given a £500 discount on a boiler sold by Free Green 
Energy Solutions Limited (FGES) and financed with a loan which it arranged.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr G agreed to buy a boiler system from FGES. An invoice dated 22 
January 2020 records a price of £4,000, including VAT. Whilst the invoice does not 
expressly say so, it appears that price included installation of the boiler.
To pay for the boiler Mr G took out a loan from a bank, which Ill refer to as B. He signed a 
loan agreement on 20 January 2020. That agreement recorded that the cash price of the 
goods and services was £4,000 (all of which Mr G was borrowing) and that the loan was to 
be repaid by 119 monthly payments of £51.91 and a final payment of £50.63. The loan 
named FGES as the credit broker. The key points of the loan agreement, including the level 
of monthly payments which Mr G had to make, were confirmed in a letter from B of 22 
January 2020.
Mr G says however that these documents did not reflect what was agreed with the salesman 
who had both sold the boiler and arranged the loan. He says he expected to receive a £500 
cashback payment. That was advertised on a flyer produced by FGES as part of a 
scrappage scheme. He says too that he was told that the loan payments would be £48, not 
£51, a month. He has produced a text message from the salesman dated 22 January 2020 
(the same date as the invoice) saying that he (the salesman) would cover the extra £3 a 
month.
FGES did not accept that it agreed to pay Mr G £500. It said that any payment under its 
scrappage scheme would be made by way of a discount on the overall price. As far as the 
monthly payment was concerned, the text message was a private arrangement between Mr 
G and the salesman and did not bind it or B.
Mr G referred the matter to this service, where it was considered by two of our investigators. 
The first agreed that the arrangement in respect of the monthly payments was a private one 
but thought that FGES had not shown the £500 offer had been applied. The second 
investigator recommended that FGES arrange for the loan payments to be reworked and for 
Mr G to be paid £500 plus interest and a further £100. FGES asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.
I did that and, because I did not agree with our investigators views, issued a provisional 
decision. In summary, I said:
I was able to consider a complaint about FGES in its capacity as credit broker. I was 
satisfied however that the price of the boiler was sufficiently closely linked to the amount 
borrowed that I could include that issue in my consideration of the complaint. 
I noted that there was no documentary evidence showing how the scrappage allowance 
would be paid. That was inconclusive. 
I observed that both the loan agreement and the sales invoice were formal legal 
documents. They were consistent with each other, and the loan agreement was a 
regulated agreement.  
Generally, a person is bound by their signature on a legal document, and I did not think 
there was any reason in this case to believe that Mr G agreed anything different.   
In response to my provisional decision, Mr G reiterated that he had been told that £500 
cashback would be paid into his account. He said too that he had been promised a visit, 
when the money would be paid, but the salesman did not attend as arranged. He also sent a 
copy of a message from FGES indicating that this service had completed its consideration of 
the complaint.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first of all clarify that my provisional decision did not mark the end of the Financial 
Ombudsman Services process  but this, my final decision, does.
As I indicated in my provisional decision, it was not clear why the salesman indicated that he 
would fund part of the monthly payments himself. I remain of the view, however, that any 
promise he may have made was not made on behalf of FGES or B and could not bind them. 
I agree too that Mr G was entitled to a £500 discount. FGES says that was taken into 
account in the invoice and the loan amount. As I have said, the price of £4,000 was included 
in both those documents and I think it more likely than not that they reflected what had been 
agreed. That is, the price of £4,000 was the price after the discount. The alternative 
explanation  that the loan to Mr G, arranged by FGES, was for more than the price of the 
boiler  is extremely unlikely to have been what was agreed.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Free Green Energy Solutions 
Limited to do anything more to resolve Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman