DRN-3200971
The complaint
Mr B complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly turned down his claim and
cancelled his car insurance policy.
Mr B has been represented in this complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to Mr B
throughout.
What happened
Mr B was trying to park, and another driver beeped their horn at him. Mr B then saw red
and went to chase the third party in his car, in the process he lost control and crashed into a
wall. Mr B then claimed on his policy for the damage caused and told Admiral what
happened.
Admiral reviewed the claim and turned it down, it said Mr Bs driving fell below the standards
of a competent driver. It said he had breached General Condition 3 which says Admiral will
not provide cover if the inappropriate conduct of the driver fails to protect their car from loss
or damage. Mr B didnt think it was fair and complained. He explained his mental health had
been suffering at the time and thats what caused him to respond as he did. He explained he
was seeking medical help and had been signed off work following the incident. He was also
referred to a specialist to support him.
Admiral reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it understood the impact a
cancellation had and had considered Mr Bs mental health at the time. But it didnt think it
had done anything wrong by declining the claim and cancelling his policy. Mr B didnt agree
and referred his complaint here, he said he accepted responsibility for the accident but didnt
think it was fair Admiral cancelled his policy. He said Admiral hadnt taken into account his
mental health conditions when dealing with his claim and the cancellation. He also said he
hadnt had any incidents like this in his previous 10 years of driving.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it was upheld. She found Mr B
had provided medical records to show hed been speaking to a doctor about his mental
health and didnt think Admiral had taken this into account. She also didnt think Mr Bs
behaviour amounted to being inappropriate in the circumstances. And as Admiral hadnt
covered his claim, hed been stuck without any transport during lockdown which made
buying food extremely difficult. Hed also been chased by Admiral for its costs because of
the claim. Our Investigator recommended Admiral deal with Mr Bs claim, remove the
cancellation marker and pay him £750 for distress and inconvenience.
Admiral asked for details of Mr Bs health conditions to consider them. It reviewed them and
didnt agree with our investigator and provided a detailed response. To summarise, Admiral
didnt think Mr Bs medical evidence was relevant as he only sought help after his claim had
been declined. It also said there was limited evidence and said one of Mr Bs diagnoses
wasnt generally deemed to be a mental health condition. Admiral also said Mr B hadnt been
advised to stop driving and therefore didnt think his condition was severe enough for him to
not drive. Admiral also assessed the circumstances of the incident and said Mr Bs actions
and the way he was driving could be deemed to be a driving offence or even criminal.
Admiral also said by Mr B chasing another driver it could be deemed as informally racing
and said the policy excluded cover for racing and where the car is used for a criminal
purpose.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 November 2021 where I said:
General Condition three of Mr Bs policy says:
3. Care of your vehicle
You or any person covered by the policy must:
protect your car from loss or damage
.
If an incident happens, and you or any person covered by this policy 
fails to protect your car from loss or damage through:
the inappropriate conduct of the driver; or
.
No cover under the policy will be provided and instead our 
responsibility will be restricted to meeting the obligations as required 
by Road Traffic Law
Ive considered this term to determine whether Admiral is applying it in a fair and reasonable
way. And in this particular case, I dont think it is. I say that because Mr B has explained that
he suffered a breakdown which caused him to behave in a manner he wouldnt normally.
Following the accident and because of it he sought medical help and was signed off work for
months, he also said his work duties were adjusted when he did return. So, while Mr Bs
actions could be deemed to be inappropriate without considering the context around them.
Im not persuaded they are here.
I say this because while Mr Bs condition may not have been deemed severe enough for him
to be referred to the DVLA for an assessment on whether he was fit to drive. It doesnt mean
his condition didnt allow for his lapse in the standard of driving at the time of this incident.
Ive also considered Admirals comments about Mr Bs actions amounting to a driving or
even criminal offence. And while the policy does exclude cover where a car is being used for
a criminal purpose, thats not whats happened here. While Admiral may have the opinion Mr
Bs actions amount to a criminal purpose, Im also aware the Police attended the scene and
removed Mr Bs car from the side of the road. Mr B hasnt been arrested or prosecuted for
an offence relating to the accident so Im not persuaded it would be fair to apply that
exclusion either.
In regard to Admirals point about Mr B seeking medical evidence after his claim was
declined. While he only sought medical support after the incident and his claim was declined,
this was within a matter of weeks of it. And considering the accident happened a few days
before Christmas, I dont think this this is an unreasonable time to be able to get an
appointment to see a doctor. Mr B has also said the accident was a trigger for him to seek
help, so it would make sense for the medical reports to be dated afterwards. Im therefore
not persuaded by Admirals point that he didnt seek urgent medical help.Ive also considered the exclusions Admiral highlighted about racing not being covered.
Admiral has referred to Mr Bs actions as informally racing. The policy doesnt define this,
so Ive looked at the ordinary every day meaning of racing, which is a contest of speed. And
while Mr B chased another car, Im not convinced it was a test of speed. Mr B explained he
saw red and to have chased the other car was out of character for him. Hes also explained
he doesnt really remember the incident so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to
refer to his actions leading up to the accident as racing. It follows that Im also not persuaded
its fair and reasonable for Admiral to rely on that term to turn down his claim either.
Admiral explained it also cancelled Mr Bs policy because of the circumstances of the
accident. Given Im not persuaded Admiral acted in a fair and reasonable way when
declining Mr Bs claim. It follows that Im not persuaded its fair and reasonable to cancel his
policy. Therefore, to put things right Admiral needs to deal with Mr Bs claim, in line with the
remaining terms and conditions and remove the cancellation marker from any internal and
external databases.
Ive also looked at the impact this has had on Mr B. Hes explained because of the
cancellation hes not found it possible to get insurance elsewhere. This meant hes had
difficulty getting food and shopping, during a time when the country was in lockdown. He
also said the declined claim and cancellation has also contributed to his mental health and
made it worse. Particularly because hes been chased for the claim costs. Im persuaded
Admirals actions have caused Mr B considerable unnecessary distress and inconvenience.
To compensate for this Admiral should pay Mr B £750 for the unnecessary distress and
inconvenience it caused.
Mr B responded to my provisional decision and accepted it. Admiral responded and didnt 
accept it. It asked to see the medical evidence Id relied upon and also asked if Mr B had told 
the police he was chasing someone and said that it was making enquiries with the police. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Admirals response and Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional 
decision. I say this because weve already sent Admiral the medical evidence Mr B has 
provided us with, twice. And while Admiral may not feel it is sufficient, Im satisfied it 
supports what Mr B has said about his health at the time. 
Ive also considered Admirals comments about whether Mr B told the police he was chasing 
another car. However, Im not satisfied that makes a difference, I say this because the police 
attended the scene and removed Mr Bs car. If the police had concerns about Mr Bs driving 
and the circumstances of the accident, I think its likely the police would have made enquires 
then. 
Admiral has now decided to make its own enquires with the police. However, given Admiral 
have had almost a year to look into this, I dont think it would produce a fair and reasonable 
outcome to allow Admiral any more time. Furthermore, Admiral also hasnt said what it 
hopes to achieve by making these enquiries or what difference it would make to Mr Bs 
claim. For these reasons Im not going to depart from my findings in my provisional decision.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision. My final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to:
Deal with Mr Bs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions
Remove any internal and external record of the cancellation
Pay Mr B £750 for distress and inconvenience1  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman
1If Admiral Insurance Company considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  