DRN-3635314
Complaint
Miss A is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) closed her account and recorded a 
fraud prevention marker against her. 
Background
In April 2020 and May 2020, Miss As account received a number of payments. The funds 
were quickly sent to a party outside the United Kingdom (U.K.) through a third-party 
remitter. HSBC subsequently received notifications from the bank which sent the funds 
confirming that its customer had been scammed into making the transfers into Miss As 
account. HSBC placed a block on Miss As account while it conducted a review. As a result 
of its review it decided to close Miss As account and also record a fraud prevention marker 
against her.
After subsequently learning about the fraud marker, Miss A complained. HSBC looked at 
Miss As complaint and didnt uphold it. As Miss A remained dissatisfied, she referred the 
matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss As concerns. She didnt think that HSBC had done 
enough to show that Miss A was complicit in fraud and so it unfairly recorded the fraud 
prevention marker against Miss A. HSBC didnt respond despite being provided with 
additional time to do so, so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision 
as per the next stage of our dispute resolution process.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that HSBC has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss A is guilty of a fraud or financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that HSBC must first be able to show that fraudulent funds
entered Miss As account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
HSBC also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss A was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving any fraudulent payments and knew they were, or might be, illegitimate payments. 
This can include Miss A allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive 
illegitimate payments. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss As complaint, I need to decide whether I think HSBC had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss As account and that she was complicit in 
this. Its important to note that HSBC had to have enough evidence to meet both parts of test 
for it to have acted fairly and reasonably.
Having considered matters here, there doesnt appear to be any dispute that Miss As 
account had been in receipt of fraudulent funds in April 2020 and May 2020. So I can 
understand why HSBC had concerns about Miss As account usage and decided to carry out 
a review. 
The terms and conditions of Miss As account permitted HSBC to close it without notice 
where she was accessing or using an account, service or money illegally or fraudulently (or 
have done this in the past) or she was allowing someone else to do this. Given fraudulent 
funds had found their way to Miss As account, I think that HSBC was reasonably entitled to 
suspect fraud may have taken place and legitimately entitled to reach the conclusion that 
there was an immediate risk in keeping Miss As account open. Therefore, I think that HSBC 
was entitled to close Miss As account in the way that it did.
That said, even though HSBC may have had reasonable grounds for concern about the 
usage on Miss As account and this was enough to justify its closure, it doesnt automatically 
follow that HSBC was entitled to register a fraud prevention marker. This is because in order 
to fairly record a fraud marker HSBC not only needs to have sufficient evidence to show that 
fraud may have taken place, it also has to have sufficient evidence to show that Miss A 
was complicit in this. And I dont think that it has done that here.
Miss A has explained that she met someone online who persuaded her to transfer funds 
from his family to him as he was unable to visit the U.K because of the pandemic. Miss A 
further explained that she was told to provide her account details to receive funds which she 
could then transfer on to him. Miss A has provided some of the messages she exchanged in 
support of her version of events. Our adjudicator found Miss As version of events plausible 
and she thought that Miss A was unwittingly involved in fraud, rather than it being the case 
that she was complicit in it. 
Ive thought about what the parties have said. 
I want to start by saying that the important thing to remember here is that it is HSBCs 
responsibility to demonstrate that Miss A was knowingly and dishonestly involved in fraud. 
And I think that it has failed to do that here. 
HSBC needs to have relevant and rigorous evidence such that it could report the matter to 
the police. In other words, a reasonable suspicion that Miss A knew fraud would take place 
when she provided her account details and transferred the funds which came into her 
account on. Simply pointing out that fraud took place and that Miss A transferred the funds in 
question, when shes never denied this is the case, just isnt enough to meet what is a high-
bar. This is especially the case seeing as the messages Miss A has provided suggests that 
her version of events here is plausible  especially as the person she was messaging 
appears to be the person who was reported by the fraud victim as fronting the scam.   Furthermore, there isnt any evidence indicating that Miss A made a financial gain either as 
the fraudulent funds in question were transferred elsewhere. Indeed, it looks as though some 
of her own funds were caught up in this and she was left with an overdraft to pay. I would 
question why Miss A would send some of her own funds if she was knowingly participating in 
fraud.
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that HSBC had sufficient evidence to 
meet the test for recording a fraud marker against Miss A. As this is the case, I think that it 
was unfair for HSBC to record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did. 
So overall Im upholding Miss As complaint and HSBC needs to remove any and all fraud 
markers it has recorded against her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss As complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
remove any and all fraud markers it has recorded against Miss A. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman