DRN-3879622
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained that HSBC Bank UK Plc debited £872.72 from their current 
account on 23 May 2022, but didnt return this until 10 June 2022.
Mr E, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, has explained that this had a devastating 
impact on the family, and is claiming £9,350 compensation.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 4 November 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, 
so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs E being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Briefly, Mr and Mrs E have a mortgage with HSBC taken out in 2017. It was on a fixed rate 
product which was subject to an early repayment charge (ERC) if the mortgage was repaid 
before 30 November 2022. 
In early May 2022, when the balance on their mortgage was about £150,000, Mr and Mrs E 
applied to switch their mortgage interest rate product and take out additional borrowing of 
£50,000. An ERC would be payable to close off their existing mortgage product, but as 
Mr and Mrs E were keen to secure a new five-year fixed rate, they were prepared to pay this. 
Mr E agreed to pay the ERC via his current account. A booking fee of £999 was paid to 
secure the new interest rate product.
The new mortgage completed on 20 May 2022, and on 23 May 2022 the ERC of £872.72 
was taken from Mr Es current account.
Mr E complained, saying hed not accepted the mortgage offer or authorised the bank to 
take the ERC from his current account. Mr E instructed HSBC to reinstate his previous 
mortgage and refund the ERC. Mr E said he would tell HSBC when he was ready to make 
the drawdown for the additional borrowing, as he didnt anticipate needing this for several 
months. 
HSBC reversed the transaction, and reimbursed the ERC. However, it took more than two 
weeks for this to be credited to Mr Es account.
Mr E said that the failure to reimburse the ERC had left the family without any money. They 
had to borrow from family, and had to cancel plans to attend various leisure events. Mr E 
said that, although he and Mrs E had savings available, theyd have lost interest on these if 
theyd withdrawn money from their savings to cover their expenses. Mr E wanted HSBC to 
pay compensation of £9,350 for the losses he said the family had suffered as a result of the 
£872.72 not being in his current account.
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint, so it was brought to us. An investigator looked at what 
had happened. She thought that HSBC hadnt explained clearly enough that the new 
mortgage, including the additional £50,000, would be processed immediately. As a result, 
confusion arose because Mr and Mrs E didnt need the new borrowing immediately, and so 
thought that they had six months to accept the new mortgage product.
The investigator asked HSBC to pay compensation of £250. Mr E didnt agree with the 
investigators findings. Hes made detailed comments, the main points of which are 
summarised below. 
Mr E said that HSBC failed to explain his rights to him, and closed down his complaint.
Mr E said that for 22 days the family was left without knowing if they were going to have 
money for food, which caused sleepless nights and stress which, months later, is still 
impacting the family. 
In addition, Mr E says that missing the sporting events hed planned to attend with his son 
has had a lasting impact on them both, as they cannot now go back and recreate those 
memories. He said that the family is unable to move on, as this has had a major impact on 
the mental wellbeing of the family. Mr E says that the recommendation of compensation of 
£250 was devastating and a sickening blow.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents, as 
well as telephone call recordings. Ive read everything and listened to the call recordings, 
and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case 
than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of arguments. In 
what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail than has been 
presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
I will also explain that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a court, and so we dont award 
punitive damages in the same way that a court would. In addition, concerns about data 
protection issues are best referred to the Information Commissioners Office.
Mr E says HSBC failed to explain his rights to him and closed down his complaint. HSBC 
issued its final response letter on 10 June 2022 providing Mr and Mrs E with referral rights to 
our service. At that point, HSBC was entitled to treat the complaint as concluded. It was then 
up to Mr and Mrs E to decide whether or not to refer their complaint to our service. They did 
so on 20 June 2022. I dont find that HSBC did anything wrong in this respect. Turning to the issues in the complaint, I accept that Mr and Mrs E, not being mortgage 
professionals, wouldnt have realised that the mortgage and further advance would draw 
down immediately. They believed they had six months within which to accept this. Im not 
persuaded that Mr and Mrs E made HSBC explicitly aware of their proposed timeline, but 
equally the bank didnt explain that drawdown would happen so quickly. I think HSBC 
assumed Mr and Mrs E wanted the transaction to complete in May 2022.
Where an error has been made by a business, what we try to do is put the consumer back in 
the position theyd have been in if the mistake hadnt been made. In this case, HSBC 
reversed the transaction, and, after a delay, refunded the ERC. What I have to consider is 
the impact of this and what HSBC must do to put things right. I must also take into 
consideration whether Mr and Mrs E could have taken steps to mitigate their position.
Ive taken careful note of everything Mr E has told us about the impact of the delay in 
receiving the refund of £872.72. Whilst I accept that the delay is likely to have caused some 
inconvenience, Im not persuaded that the losses claimed by Mr E for the various events he 
wasnt able to attend would have been reasonably foreseeable by HSBC. In the 
circumstances, Im not persuaded that the lack of access to £872.27 between 23 May 2022 
and 10 June 2022 resulted in actual financial loss of £9,350.
Mr E has also told us that he and Mrs E had access to savings, albeit that withdrawing from 
these would have resulted in a loss of interest. Mr and Mrs E were therefore in a position to 
have mitigated the potential impact of not having £872.27 in their account for two weeks by 
transferring £872.27 of their savings into their current account. This would have enabled 
Mr E to attend the sporting events hed planned, and any evidenced loss of interest on 
£872.72 of savings could have been claimed back from HSBC.
I can see from his submissions the intensity with which Mr E has brought this complaint. He 
sees error or wrongdoing in almost everything HSBC has done (or not done). Thats a 
natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation 
as Mr E has been here.
But I have a different remit; I have to be objective, and impartial, and look at the case based 
on the evidence, rather than be swayed by emotion. After carefully reviewing all the 
evidence, and after taking into consideration all the circumstances, Im satisfied that the 
compensation of £250 recommended by the investigator for the confusion and the delay in 
returning the £872.27 is fair and reasonable, and is proportionate to the error made by the 
bank.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs E wanted. If they decide not to accept my final 
decision, they will be free to pursue their grievances against HSBC in court. I would suggest 
Mr and Mrs E take legal advice from a solicitor before embarking on any legal action.
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay Mr and Mrs E compensation of £250.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement I direct HSBC UK 
Bank Plc to settle the complaint as set out above. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman