DRN-2496180
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Ageas Insurance Limited has turned down a claim they made on 
their travel insurance policy after they had to extend their trip abroad.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out a single trip travel insurance through a broker on 4 October 2019, to 
cover a holiday theyd booked to Australia. They travelled as planned on 4 March 2020 and 
they were due to fly back to the UK on 28 March 2020. However, on 22 March 2020, Mr and 
Mrs Ts airline got in touch to let them know that their return flight had been cancelled due to 
the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr and Mrs T said their airline left them without assistance and they 
had to arrange their own return flight with a different airline, which left Australia on 3 April 
2020. They incurred additional accommodation and other costs, as well as the costs of their 
new flights. They made a claim on their travel insurance policy for around £3311 of costs 
theyd incurred.
Ageas turned down the claim. It said the Travel Delay section of the policy didnt cover Mr 
and Mrs Ts circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs T were unhappy with Ageas decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They said theyd followed the guidance theyd been given by the UK and 
Australian governments. They also felt the cancellation section of their policy might apply, 
given their original airline had cancelled their flight. And they felt theyd taken out travel 
insurance to protect them against unforeseen events like these. They told us theyd been 
able to recover £1501.20 from their original airline towards the cancelled flights.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the 
circumstances of their claim fell within the Travel Delay cover set out in the policy. She 
explained that as Mr and Mrs T had already travelled abroad, their trip itself hadnt been 
cancelled. And she didnt think there was any other section of the policy which covered Mr 
and Mrs Ts situation. So she thought it was fair for Ageas to turn down their claim.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed. They said at the time they took out the policy, no insurer had 
included pandemics or epidemics in the things it didnt cover. They felt their travel plans had 
been impacted by a delay to their international departure. They considered that Ageas had 
left them high and dry while they were abroad. Theyd been trapped abroad through no fault 
of their own.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ts position, I think it was fair for Ageas 
to turn down their claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought very carefully about, amongst 
other things, the terms of Mr and Mrs Ts policy and the circumstances of their claim to 
decide whether Ageas handled the claim fairly.
Theres no dispute that as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr and Mrs Ts original flight 
home was cancelled by their airline and so they were left abroad through no fault of their 
own. I dont doubt how stressful this situation mustve been for them, particularly as theyve 
told us neither their airline nor their travel agent provided them with any help.
But in making my decision, I need to consider the terms of Mr and Mrs Ts policy. Thats 
because it forms the basis of the contract between Mr and Mrs T and Ageas. Given Mr and 
Mrs Ts trip had to be extended as a result of the cancellation of their original flight, I think it 
was appropriate for Ageas to consider the claim under the Travel Delay section of the 
policy. So Ive looked carefully at the cover this section provides. It says:
We will pay you:
1. up to the amount shown in the summary of cover if the international departure of the 
public transport on which you are booked to travel is delayed by at least 12 hours; or
2. up to the amount shown under the Cancellation section of this policy in the summary 
of cover if you abandon the trip after a delay to your outward flight, sea crossing, 
coach or train departure from your home country of more than 12 hours beyond the 
booked departure time;
as a result of:
a) strike or industrial action provided that when this policy was taken out, there was no 
expectation that the trip would be delayed;
b) adverse weather conditions;
c) mechanical breakdown or technical fault of the aircraft, coach, train or
sea vessel.
The maximum delay benefit payable per person on Mr and Mrs Ts policy is £300 per 
person. The abandonment cover wouldnt apply to Mr and Mrs Ts situation, because this 
only provides cover for the abandonment of a holiday following a delayed departure to the 
outward journey from the UK. So Ive thought about whether it was fair for Ageas to conclude 
that Mr and Mrs Ts claim wasnt covered for delay benefit.
I think the insured events which this section of the policy covers are clearly set out and 
theyre exhaustive. I dont think I can fairly find that the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ts 
original flight because of Covid-19 concerns can reasonably be considered to fall within the 
scope of strike, adverse weather or mechanical/technical fault of their plane. So I think it was 
fair for Ageas to conclude that Mr and Mrs Ts claim wasnt covered by the Travel Delay 
section of the policy.
Mr and Mrs T feel that their flight cancellation means that their claim should be considered 
within the cancellation section of the policy. While I accept their return flight was cancelled, their trip itself wasnt. Theyd travelled as planned and in fact, their holiday was extended. It 
might be helpful if I explain though that even if I had thought the claim should be considered 
under the cancellation section of the policy, this would only cover the contracted unused 
travel and accommodation costs a policyholder had already paid for a trip prior to it being 
cancelled. It doesnt include cover for replacement flights, additional accommodation or other 
associated costs if a policyholders trip has to be extended and theyre unable to return 
home on their pre-booked flight. 
Ive looked carefully at the other sections of the policy, but I dont think there are any others 
under which I could fairly or reasonably tell Ageas to consider Mr and Mrs Ts claim. Id also 
add that while pandemics and epidemics arent specifically excluded by the terms of Mr and 
Mrs Ts policy, this doesnt mean these events are covered. As Ive explained, I think Ageas 
has clearly set out the insured events the Travel Delay section of the policy is designed to 
cover.
I do have sympathy for Mr and Mrs Ts position because I appreciate theyre significantly out 
of pocket for events which were beyond their control. But given their claim simply wasnt 
covered by the policy, I dont think there was much Ageas could do to assist them, other 
than to direct them back to their original airline.
Taking all of the above into account, I think it was fair and reasonable for Ageas to conclude 
that Mr and Mrs Ts claim isnt covered by the policy terms.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman