DRN-2895426
The complaint
Mr J complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) incorrectly registered a 
default on his credit file which affected the interest rate on his borrowing.
 What happened
Mr J says NatWest incorrectly registered a default on his credit file. He says the mistake 
affected his credit score and meant the interest rate he received on a £100,000 loan was 
increased. Mr J would like compensation for the extra interest he has paid and will continue 
to pay and says the default appeared on his credit file after NatWest says it was removed. 
He has provided a letter from his credit broker which in summary says the loan interest rate 
was directly impacted by the default and other missed payments on his credit file.
NatWest accepts it made a mistake in registering the default and for it later appearing on Mr 
Js credit file again. It previously paid compensation and has offered a further £50. It has 
also said it will consider compensation if Mr J can provide evidence of the loss he says he 
has suffered.
Mr J brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint in part. The 
investigator didnt think the compensation of £50 went far enough and recommended 
NatWest pay a further £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. The investigator 
looked at Mr Js credit file and noted there was other adverse information recorded on it for 
other matters such as missed mortgage payments and accounts in arrears. And considered 
the credit brokers letter, that the default and this other adverse information was taken into 
account. The investigator in summary didnt think it possible to conclude the default alone 
resulted in the interest rate Mr J received.
Mr J doesnt accept that view and says the default would have had more impact than the 
other adverse information and maintains without NatWests mistake he would be paying a 
lower interest rate. He says the other adverse information is irrelevant in any event and 
would like further compensation which we should be able to calculate.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold the main part of this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr J will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that NatWest made a mistake by registering the default. I accept 
Mr J spent some time trying to sort matters out and was caused inconvenience and distress. 
I appreciate NatWest has paid compensation, but I agree with the investigator that it should 
pay a further £150 which I can see it has agreed to do. Im satisfied that compensation 
amount in total is fair and reasonable but for the reasons I will explain, I cant fairly order it to 
pay for any interest rate increase as Mr J would like.
Lenders and credit providers take a number of factors into consideration when assessing 
applications. I can see that Mr Js credit provider has agreed with that and says that in Mr Js 
case, the default and the various missed payments were considered. I have no doubt that 
the lender in this case would have considered not only Mr Js credit file but his income, 
expenditure as well as a variety of factors when assessing risk.
I appreciate that Mr J says I should ignore the adverse information on his credit file and 
focus on the incorrect default. But for the reasons I have explained I cant fairly do that. I 
think on balance that its impossible to be sure that the default alone contributed to the 
interest rate Mr J was offered and that the default meant that some lenders would have 
refused to have offered him a loan. I think it likely that any lender would have considered the 
other adverse information on Mr Js credit file and in particular the missed mortgage 
payments and the arrears on other accounts as well as the time period of those arrears.
I dont think Mr J has provided any direct evidence from his lender that the default alone led 
to the offered interest rate or any evidence that other lenders would not lend to him due to 
the default. I would have expected Mr J to have provided that evidence as well as evidence 
of the difference in those interest rates which would have allowed NatWest or us to consider 
the potential loss. Im satisfied that NatWest fairly said it would consider those costs but 
would require evidence of those matters before doing so. It follows that I dont think NatWest 
acted unfairly or made a mistake by asking for such evidence and that without such 
evidence it would be impossible to consider if NatWest ought reasonably to be liable for any 
such loss or what that loss was or will be.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr Js credit file contained a significant amount of adverse 
information and that any lender would have considered that even if the default wasnt 
registered. For the reasons I have explained I cant fairly conclude NatWests mistake was 
the sole reason or even the main reason for the interest rate he was offered. It follows that I 
cant fairly order NatWest pay any further compensation over the £150 I intend to order.
Putting things right
I intend to order NatWest to pay a further £150 compensation.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order National Westminster Bank 
Plc to pay Mr J a further £150 compensation. Mr Js acceptance of this decision would be in 
full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman