DRN-3392225
The complaint
Mr W complains Legal and General Insurance Society Limited (L&G) took too long to 
assess the life assurance claim he made for his wife Mrs W, and unfairly declined the claim.
 
What happened
In March 2010, Mr W and Mrs W took out a joint life assurance policy with L&G. The policy 
had a term of 23 years and would pay a sum assured of £300,000 if Mr W or Mrs W passed 
away or were diagnosed with a terminal illness.
Sadly, Mrs W passed away in January 2020. Her death certificate said her cause of death 
was I (a) End Stage Liver Disease (b) Alcoholic Cirrhosis and II Influenza A & 
Streptococcus Pneumoniae Pneumonia. Later that month, Mr W made a claim under the 
policy. 
L&G obtained medical evidence as part of its assessment of the claim. In April 2020 Mr W 
complained about how long L&G was taking, but L&G said it hadnt caused any unnecessary 
delays. In July 2020 L&G told Mr W it had declined the claim and avoided the policy 
(cancelled it as if it had never existed), because Mrs W hadn't correctly answered questions 
about her alcohol consumption history in her policy application. The questions it thought 
shed answered incorrectly were about her current average weekly alcohol consumption, 
whether her average alcohol consumption had been higher in the last five years than it was 
currently, and whether shed ever been advised to reduce her alcohol consumption.
L&G said it would have charged Mrs W higher premiums if not for this misrepresentation, 
which it categorised as deliberate or reckless. It offered Mr W a choice between a refund of 
all the policy premiums that had been paid, or having an L&G policy set up in his own sole 
name with a partial refund of premiums to be calculated. Ultimately, Mr W chose a full refund 
of premiums. 
Mr W complained to L&G, as he was unhappy with its claim outcome and how long it had 
taken. He suggested Mrs W might have been in denial about her alcohol use, rather than 
intending to deceive. But L&G said it was correct to decline the claim and avoid the policy. 
However, it accepted it had caused an unnecessary delay of nine working days in June 
2020, by not acting as quickly as it should have on medical evidence it received. It offered 
Mr W £150 compensation for any distress this caused him. 
Mr W remained unhappy and complained to this service. Our Investigator thought Mrs W 
hadnt made a misrepresentation on the question about her current average weekly alcohol 
consumption. But had made a misrepresentation on the questions about whether her 
average alcohol consumption had been higher in the last five years than currently, and 
whether shed ever been advised to reduce her alcohol consumption. The Investigator 
thought L&G was fair to say it would have rated the policy (charged Mrs W more in 
premiums) because of her history of abnormal liver function test results, but was unfair to 
say it would have also rated the policy because Mrs W was probably mis-using alcohol. The 
Investigator thought careless was a fairer category of misrepresentation here, so he said 
L&G should pay Mr W a proportionate settlement based on the rating for Mrs Ws abnormal 
liver test results. He said L&G should pay 8% interest on this amount, but could deduct the 
premiums it had refunded to Mr W. 
L&G disagreed. It thought the medical evidence showed Mrs Ws misrepresentations were 
deliberate or reckless, and that it was fair to rate the policy for both probable alcohol mis-use 
and abnormal liver test results. 
Mr W thought L&G was trying to avoid paying the claim and explained it had caused him a 
great deal of distress. He said the policy was bought in case the worst happened, and Mrs W 
had passed away. And that while Mrs Ws mental state at times meant she needed to 
consume alcohol, she never felt she was not in control, and thought she would overcome her 
issues. Mr W said that in 2019 Mrs W informed L&G shed been diagnosed with chronic liver 
disease, and it told her to carry on paying the premiums. He suggested the influenza Mrs W 
had at the end of her life was in fact Covid-19 and had she passed away in March 2020, her 
death certificate would have said Covid-19 and not liver disease. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was passed to me for a decision. On 
10 March 2022 I issued my provisional decision, in which I said as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Firstly, Id like to say how sorry I am to hear of Mrs W passing away. I realise this complaint 
has been made under very upsetting and difficult circumstances for Mr W. While I dont wish 
to cause Mr W any further distress, Im not intending to uphold this complaint.  
I know Mr W says L&G told Mrs W to keep paying the premiums when she was diagnosed 
with chronic liver disease in 2019, and if Mrs W had passed away in March 2020, her death 
certificate would have said Covid-19 and not liver disease. But the crux of this complaint is 
that L&G thinks Mrs W incorrectly answered a number of application questions, so it 
declined the claim and avoided the policy.
The relevant law here is the Marine Insurance Act 1906. As well as taking account of the 
law, I also need to consider relevant guidelines and codes, including Misrepresentation and 
Treating Customers Fairly  ABI Code of Practice Managing Claims For Individual and 
Group Life, Critical Illness and Income Protection Insurance Products September 2019 
(2019 ABI code), as well as good industry practice, to make a decision that is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
In light of this, I need to determine whether Mrs W made a misrepresentation and if so, 
whether that misrepresentation was innocent, careless, or deliberate or reckless. And 
whether L&G has applied the correct remedy for that misrepresentation, which is set out in 
the 2019 ABI code.
Mrs W was asked What is your average weekly consumption of alcohol in units? A unit of 
alcohol is equivalent to half a pint of beer, lager or cider, one standard glass of wine or a 
single measure of spirits. She answered 20. I think this question is clear. The medical 
evidence Ive been provided with shows the last time Mrs Ws alcohol consumption was 
mentioned or quantified in her medical notes prior to her policy application was on 5 
September 2006, when Mrs W visited her GP. The GP noted Depressed doing really well 
realxed [sic] happy still feels drinking too much having one dry day a week and has really cut 
back to nearer 30+ units now further advice re reducing further. There is nothing nearer in 
time to the policy application to suggest the average of 20 units per week Mrs W disclosed in 
her application wasnt correct. So, I dont think there is enough evidence to say that Mrs W answered that question incorrectly. Therefore I intend to say its unreasonable for L&G to 
say Mrs W made a misrepresentation when answering this question. 
Mrs W was also asked In the last 5 years has your average alcohol consumption ever been 
higher than your current average? She answered No. I think this question is reasonably 
clear. As I say, the medical evidence shows Mrs W visited her GP on 5 September 2006 and 
it was noted Depressed doing really well realxed [sic] happy still feels drinking too much 
having one dry day a week and has really cut back to nearer 30+ units now further advice 
re reducing further. Theres nothing in the medical evidence Ive been provided to suggest 
that in the five years before her policy application, Mrs Ws alcohol consumption was at any 
point less than the 30+ units noted in this GP consultation. And this note makes clear Mrs W 
had really cut back in order to bring her alcohol consumption down to 30+ units per week. 
Based on this, I think it was fair for L&G to conclude that in the five years before she applied 
for the policy, Mrs Ws average alcohol consumption had been higher than the current 
average of 20 units per week she disclosed in her policy application. So I intend to say its 
reasonable for L&G to say Mrs W didnt take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when answering this question.
Mrs W was also asked Have you ever been medically advised to reduce your alcohol 
consumption? She answered No. I think this question is reasonably clear. The medical 
evidence shows Mrs Ws answer wasnt correct. Mrs W visited her GP on 3 February 2005, 
and the GP noted drinks  bottle of wine a night [equivalent to approximately 35 units per 
week]  has done for years shingles  probably the main reason for fatigue - to cut down 
drinking and take up sport And as Ive said, Mrs W also visited her GP on 5 September 
2006 and it was noted still feels drinking too much having one dry day a week and has 
really cut back to nearer 30+ units now further advice re reducing further. Based on this, I 
intend to say its reasonable for L&G to say Mrs W didnt take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when answering this question.
L&G wrote to Mrs W and asked her to check her application answers. The letter said If your 
answers or any other statements made about your application are not correct, incomplete or 
are out of date we can refuse any claim and cancel your policy or policies. Mrs W didnt 
correct any of her answers. Instead she ticked the yes box when asked have we got your 
details right? and signed to say the application was correct.
For these reasons, I intend to say Im satisfied L&G was reasonable to conclude Mrs W 
didnt take reasonable care to ensure she answered these last two questions correctly when 
applying for the policy. In other words, I intend to say Im satisfied Mrs W made a 
misrepresentation here.
I intend to say I think this misrepresentation made a difference. L&G has provided its 
underwriting criteria as well as comments from one of its underwriters. This shows that if Mrs 
W had correctly answered the question about being advised to reduce her alcohol 
consumption, L&G would have referred her application to an underwriter, who would have 
then asked her GP for a report. L&G has shown me what type of information this report 
would have asked for. Based on this and Mrs Ws medical records, I think L&G would have 
become aware that Mrs Ws average alcohol consumption had been higher in the five years 
prior to the policy application, and of the abnormal liver function test results recorded in 
September 2008. The underwriter has explained they would have added ratings because of 
the liver function test results and because the underlying reason for these results was 
probably Mrs Ws use of alcohol. Based on the underwriting evidence L&G has provided, I 
think thats fair and reasonable. So I intend to say Im satisfied L&G would have charged 
more for this policy.
 L&G has categorised this misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. Sadly, Mrs W is no 
longer here for us to ask why she answered those questions as she did. Mr W suggests Mrs 
W may have been in denial about her alcohol use rather than intending to deceive, and that 
she felt she was in control and would overcome her issues. I acknowledge what Mr W says.
But Mrs Ws average consumption of alcohol was something Mrs W herself would still have 
known about. And the GP record dated 5 September 2006 shows Mrs W was aware her 
alcohol consumption was problematic, as it notes she herself still feels drinking too much. 
Mrs Ws doctor advised her to reduce her alcohol consumption twice within eighteen months, 
with the last time being about three and a half years before Mrs W applied for the policy. So 
its fair to say Mrs W was advised to reduce her alcohol consumption more than once and a 
relatively short time before she applied for the policy. Therefore, its hard to see how Mrs W 
could simply have forgotten these things, or thought they werent relevant to L&G given the 
clear application questions it asked. 
Therefore, I intend to say it was fair for L&G to categorise Mrs Ws misrepresentation as 
deliberate or reckless. The 2019 ABI code says that in these circumstances, L&G can avoid 
the policy. This is what L&G has done, so while I understand Mr W thinks L&G is simply 
trying to avoid paying the claim, it has acted fairly and in line with the 2019 ABI code. This 
means theres no policy under which a claim can be paid. The 2019 ABI code also says L&G 
can keep the premiums Mr and Mrs W paid for the policy. However, I see L&G has refunded 
these to Mr W. L&G can itself choose to do that, and I dont think L&G refunding the 
premiums makes any difference to whether it can avoid the policy. 
Mr W says L&G took too long to decide the claim.  L&Gs claim notes show it received Mr 
Ws claim paperwork on 17 January 2020, and it then needed to obtain and assess medical 
information to decide if the claim was payable. The claim notes show L&G generally kept the 
claim progressing and didnt cause unnecessary delays. However, L&G itself accepts it took 
nine working days longer than its own processes say it should have to act on medical 
evidence it received in June 2020. I can see thats the case and I note L&G has paid Mr W 
£150 compensation for the distress this delay caused him. Given this was a relatively short 
delay which made no difference to the claim outcome, I intend to say Im satisfied that £150 
is fair and reasonable compensation for any unnecessary distress and inconvenience it 
caused Mr W. 
 
Taking everything into account, I dont intend to ask L&G to do anything further here, though 
I realise this will be a very great disappointment to Mr W.
Mr W was disappointed with my provisional decision, but said there was nothing new he 
could add. L&G also said it had nothing further to add.
Im now in a position to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr W nor L&G have provided me with further comments or evidence to consider, so I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision. 
Therefore, Im satisfied L&G dont need to do anything further here, though I acknowledge 
Mr Ws disappointment. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman