DRN-2508948
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont fully refund him after he lost money to an
investment scam.
What happened
I set out the detailed background to this case, along with my proposed outcome, in my 
provisional decision which was issued on 4 March 2021. Ive not heard from either party in 
response and so have restated the content of that decision here, unchanged.
Mr M says he was followed by someone on Instagram who was also following some of 
his friends. This person was posing as a binary options trader and said they worked at 
an investment firm. Unbeknownst to Mr M at the time, the person was in fact a 
fraudster.
Over the course of several months Mr M could see she posted success stories from other 
people that had invested with her help. Shed also posted photos and videos showing her 
working in an office with a team. She had nearly 7,000 followers online. So Mr M thought 
the profile looked legitimate.
Mr M says the trader then reached out to him directly to see if hed be interested in 
investing. They discussed details in a messaging app.
The trader explained how the investment would work and how much Mr M could expect 
to make:
trades would be placed in different time blocks throughout the day;
the trader said, we buy stock currency such as US dollars for under a third 
of the original value and then selling it on making 2/3rds simply in profits;
the minimum investment amount was £600 and that would return at least £3,000;
returns would be paid within eight hours;
there was a no loss guarantee for first time traders like Mr M, dropping to a 
60% refund of money invested for regular investors.
Mr M was sent a profit and loss analysis which showed how much he might make, along 
with costs associated with the investment such as commission and release fees. He was 
also sent an agreement containing terms and conditions.
Mr M says he checked the name of the company that the trader said she worked for 
by searching online. He found it registered with Companies House.
Mr M hadnt invested before but has said he understood there were good returns to be 
made through investing and so decided to go ahead with an investment of £700. He sent 
the money by way of bank transfer, using his online banking, to the account details 
provided by the fraudster.
The trader confirmed Mr Ms money would be booked for investing and that hed receive 
his returns by that same evening. She later confirmed Mr Ms investment had returned 
nearly £12,000 but that hed have to pay a further £1,412.34 in order to release it. This 
was described as a payment to the FCA (as industry regulator) and a different set of 
account details were provided to Mr M. He went ahead and made the second payment.
After that, contact from the trader ceased. Mr M tried to get in touch several times 
but received no response. Its then he realised hed been scammed.
Mr M reported the incident to HSBC and it investigated his fraud claim. It tried to recover 
the funds from the recipient banks but found there was no money left; it had already been 
removed from the beneficiary accounts.
HSBC went on to consider its obligations to provide Mr M with a refund. It is a signatory 
of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code which 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this 
in all but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC says one or more of those 
exceptions applies in this case.
HSBC acknowledged it ought to have given Mr M more warnings about the type of scam 
he fell victim to at the point he was making the payments. And so, recognising the 
provisions of the CRM Code, it agreed to refund Mr M 50% of his loss. But it said Mr M 
ought to share responsibility as he hadnt met his requisite level of care. Specifically, it 
didnt believe he had a reasonable basis for believing the investment was legitimate and it 
said he ought to have carried out more checks before making the payments.
Mr M disagreed with HSBC and so brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the case and thought it ought to be upheld, with HSBC 
providing a full refund. She felt Mr M did have a reasonable basis for belief because:
Mr M had followed the trader for a long time and saw what appeared to be 
genuine positive reviews. Mr M had reasonably thought a scammer wouldnt 
have had an active profile for so long or that theyd have so many followers;
Mr M had seen videos and photos which seemed to show the trader working 
in an office, with a team, and shed also claimed to be working at a company 
legitimately registered with Companies House;
Mr M had been sent a convincing looking contract;
Mr M believed the no loss guarantee was akin to a promotional offer for 
new customers; and
Mr M hadnt traded before but understood there were good returns to be 
made through investing.
HSBC didnt agree with the investigators recommendations. It said, in summary:
Instagram isnt a secure trading platform;
Mr M didnt verify that the trader worked at the company she said she did;
Mr M didnt check the company was regulated by the FCA;
the return was highly implausible and too good to be true;
HSBCs duty under applicable law and regulation would not be considered to 
have been breached in not identifying the payments as suspicious;
there was doubt as to whether a more suitable warning would have had a 
material effect on the outcome of the scam; and
Mr M works in finance, at an accountancy firm, and so ought to have had 
some knowledge of the industry and was well-placed to protect himself from 
such fraud.The case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has disagreed with my provisional findings and so I see no reason to depart 
from them. And so Ive restated the content of my provisional decision here, unchanged. 
 
Theres no dispute that Mr M authorised the payments that are the subject of this complaint, 
even though he did so as a result of being deceived by fraudsters. Broadly speaking, under 
the account terms and conditions and the Payment Service Regulations 2017, he would 
normally be liable for them. But that isnt the end of the story.
Where a customer has been the victim of a scam it may be appropriate for the bank 
to reimburse the customer, even though payments have been properly authorised.
Of particular relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM 
Code), which HSBC has signed up to.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer 
who is the victim of an APP scam, like Mr M. The circumstances where a firm may 
choose not to reimburse are limited and it is for the firm to establish that a customer 
failed to meet their requisite level of care, as set out in the Code.
One such circumstance might be when a customer has ignored what the CRM Code refers 
to as an Effective Warning. HSBC has already acknowledged it didnt provide an Effective 
Warning to Mr M. Thats why its refunded 50% of his loss, accepting that it ought to have 
done more and recognising that means it bears some responsibility for Mr Ms loss. Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest this isnt a fair conclusion and I see no reason to make 
further findings given HSBC has already accepted partial responsibility here.
A second circumstance in which a bank might decline a refund is if it can be 
demonstrated that the customer made the payments without having a reasonable basis 
for believing that:
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
In considering these points account should be taken of all of the circumstances of the 
case, including the characteristics of the customer and the complexity of the scam.
HSBC has said it wont refund the remaining 50% of Mr Ms loss as it doesnt think he did 
have a reasonable basis for belief. In particular, it thinks Mr M ought to have questioned 
the unrealistic rate of return and done more to verify the trader was legitimate.
Im in agreement with HSBC on this and its why Im not currently minded to tell the 
bank it needs to provide further reimbursement. Ill explain why.
I find that the promised rate of return and the speed at which it would be generated  turning 
£600 into at least £3,000, within eight hours  ought to have raised significant questions with 
Mr M. Im in agreement with HSBC that it simply sounds too good to be true and that Mr M 
ought reasonably to have been sceptical about what he was being told. The same can be 
said of developments prior to Mr M making the second payment, when he was told his £700 
had actually been turned into almost £12,000. There were other elements that ought to have 
given further cause for concern from the beginning:there was a no loss guarantee, making the investment essentially a sure thing. 
Even suggesting a maximum loss of 60% for regular investors seems an 
improbable feature of any investment opportunity;
the traders description of the activity to be engaged in also sounds improbable. 
How the company would be able to buy US dollars for a third of their true value 
goes unexplained and theres no reason given (or asked for by Mr M) as to how 
such a discount could be achieved.
Mr M has said he did carry out some checks in order to establish the legitimacy of what 
he was doing. But I dont find these checks were sufficient in light of the improbable 
returns promised:
there was no way for Mr M to verify the reviews or posts on the traders 
Instagram page, even though I can see why Mr M would have taken some 
comfort from the activity there;
Mr M says he checked the name of the company online and found it registered 
on Companies House. But it seems he didnt contact the company directly to make 
sure it was the right one or that the trader did work there. There appears to be no 
investment company in the UK operating under that name, with the entries on 
Companies House being described as involved in Retail sale via mail order 
houses or Other business support service activities not elsewhere classified. And 
so, really, there was very little for Mr M to rely on here;
theres no website for the investment company the trader claimed to be working 
for (no matching results are returned when carrying out a search online) and Mr M 
doesnt seem to have asked to see one. The only website referred to at all is 
stated in the contract (which Mr M says he read) but it appears to automatically 
redirect to a tabloid newspaper;
the contract given to  and read by  Mr M did look convincing, but the 
company referred to within it bears a different trading name and is stated as 
operating out of Canada; and
the profit and loss analysis provided to Mr M bore a different company name 
to the one he believed he was dealing with, but this wasnt questioned.
With all of the above in mind, I consider that the promised returns were so unlikely that Mr 
M ought to have had significant concern about the legitimacy of the opportunity. That, in 
turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of checking on Mr Ms part. In not carrying out 
sufficient checks I dont find he had a reasonable basis for believing the opportunity was 
legitimate and so, under the CRM Code, he bears some responsibility for his loss.
In reaching this finding Ive also taken note of what Mr M said in an email to one of our 
investigators whilst the investigation was underway, It does seem unrealistic however, 
at that point I was in need of some funds and therefore went in with the hope it would 
pay off. And so it seems as though Mr M had recognised there was significant risk in 
going ahead with the investment but decided to take a chance.
Much of what Ive set out here applies to both of the payments made by Mr M. But, for 
completeness, there are a couple of other comments to be made about the second 
payment. The outcome is the same in that I dont believe Mr M had a reasonable basis for 
believing it was a legitimate payment. I find that the case for Mr M having a reasonable 
basis for belief becomes weaker, rather than stronger, for the second payment. Whilst he 
might have been anticipating making the payment (the need to do so had been set out by 
the trader beforehand), the rate of return had become even more unlikely. Mr M was told 
his £700 had been turned into £12,000.
Mr M has said he felt he had no choice but to send the second payment in order to get his money back. And whilst I can understand he didnt want to lose out, it seems he was 
chasing a loss already incurred and he suspected it might not pay off. Even if he didnt 
actually have such levels of doubt at the time, I find its fair and reasonable to say he 
ought to have done as there wasnt a reasonable basis for belief in what he was promised.
Im satisfied that the banks position on Mr Ms fraud claim, and its assessment under 
the CRM Code, is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances and that liability 
should be shared between the two parties. And so I dont intend to make any further 
award to Mr M.
I do sympathise with Mr M as hes clearly been the victim of cruel scam. And I dont doubt Mr 
M had legitimate intentions to invest and see favourable returns. But the circumstances of 
the case and the evidence available lead me to find Im unable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman