DRN-3686796
The complaint
Mr U, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
appropriate affordability checks before it provided him with loans that he couldnt afford to 
repay. 
What happened
Mr U was advanced six home collected loans between March 2017 and September 2019. 
Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £300.00 08/03/2017 31/08/2017 33 £15.00
2 £500.00 31/08/2017 31/08/2018 52 £17.50
3 £300.00 31/08/2017 27/04/2018 33 £15.00
4 £500.00 31/08/2018 05/09/2019 52 £17.50
5 £200.00 31/08/2018 25/01/2019 20 £15.00
6 £600.00 05/09/2019 04/09/2020 52 £21.00
Following Mr Us complaint Morses wrote to his representative to explain that it wasnt going 
to uphold the complaint. Mr Us representative didnt accept the outcome and referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. He thought Morses had made a reasonable decision 
to provide loans 1 - 3. But he thought by the time loan 4 was granted the lending was now 
harmful for Mr U. The adjudicator upheld the complaint about loans 4 - 6. 
Mr Us representative didnt acknowledge the adjudicators assessment. 
Morses didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, and Ive summarised its comments 
below.
Loan 4 was for the same value as loan 2, and loan 5 was smaller than loan 3. 
The amounts lent to Mr U was not unreasonable. 
Mr U had a sufficient amount of disposable income to afford these loans. 
Adequate checks were completed by Morses before these loans were granted. 
Mr U had a good repayment history. 
The case was then referred to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr U could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Mr Us income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr U. These factors include:
Mr U having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr U having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr U coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr U.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr U could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr U was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Us complaint.
Neither Mr U (or his representatives) nor Morses appears to disagree with the adjudicators 
assessment that loans 1  3 werent irresponsibly provided. I therefore no longer think these 
loans are in dispute. But for the avoidance of doubt, I also dont think Morses made an 
unreasonable decision to provide these loans. So, I say no more about them.
Instead this decision will focus on whether Morses made reasonable decisions to lend in 
relation to loans 4 - 6. 
For these loans, Morses has shown that it asked Mr U for details of his income and 
expenditure. He declared an income of between £349 and £357 per week with outgoings of 
between £220 - £225 per week. This left Mr U with a weekly disposable income of £125.30 
for loan 4, £124.30 for loan 5 and finally £135.50 to make his weekly repayments of no more 
than £32.50. 
Based solely on Mr Us income and expenditure information Morses couldve been confident 
he would be able to comfortably afford the repayments he was committed to making. But its arguable whether these checks went far enough considering how long Mr U had been 
indebted to Morses, his future weekly commitment and what Morses already knew about Mr 
Us finances. By now, it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have at the very least, 
started to have verified the information it was being given. 
However, I dont think I need to try and establish, in this case, whether a proportionate check 
wouldve led Morses to conclude these loans were unaffordable for him because, for the 
reasons Ive outlined below I think the lending was now unsustainable for him. 
So in addition to looking at the checks that Morses did Ive also looked at the overall pattern 
of Morses lending history with Mr U, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further 
loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Us case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
4. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Mr U was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. This was now Mr Us fourth loan within 17 months. So, Morses 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr U was having to borrow further 
to cover a long-term short fall in his living costs. 
This was now the second time that Mr U had taken two loans on the same day, with 
each loan having a different term. While, for loans 4 and 5 he borrowed a smaller 
amount than loans 2 and 3 his weekly commitment remained the same because loan 
5 was due to be repaid over a smaller term than loan 3. 
Mr U was generally provided with a new loan on the same day a previous loan was 
repaid. By loan 4, this was the third time that this had happened. To me, this is a sign 
that Mr U was using these loans to fill a long-term gap in his income rather than as a 
short-term need.  
Over the course of the lending relationship, Mr Us weekly commitments stayed 
roughly the same  reaching weekly commitments of £32.50 per week. But Mr U was 
committed each time to repaying Morses up to a year, which I think shows that he 
was, more likely than not, having longer term problems with a consistent need for 
credit. 
Mr U wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Morses. Loan 6 was 
taken out 30 months after Mr Us first loan. His final loan was twice the size of his first 
and was repayable over a longer term than the first loan. He was committing to 
spending at least a further year indebted to Morses. Mr U had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Mr U lost out when Morses provided loans 4 - 6 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Us indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr U borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Us ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Mr Us complaint about loans 4 - 6. Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not provided loans 4  6 to Mr U, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr U may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how he would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr U in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr U would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided loans 4 - 6 to Mr U.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr U towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Morses have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr 
U which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr U originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Mr U the total of A and B 
D. The overall pattern of Mr Us borrowing for loans 4 - 6 any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so Morses should remove these loans entirely from Mr Us 
credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr U a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I am upholding Mr Us complaint in part. 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mr U as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman