DRN-3944688
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Studio Retail Limited declined to refund the cost of goods which she 
says werent of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mrs A used her running credit account with Studio to purchase furniture in March 2021. She 
subsequently raised issues about the quality of the goods and was provided with 
replacements. Mrs A then made a complaint about the quality of the items shed been given 
around a year later.
Studio responded in June 2022. It said that as it had been more than 12 months since the 
purchase, the items were no longer under warranty. It didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs A referred the matter to this service in July 2022. She asked for a refund or replacement 
of the goods. 
Our investigator said that Mrs As complaint about the quality of the goods shed been 
provided was about Studios retail activities, and not something this service had the power to 
consider a complaint about. 
Our investigator accepted that this service could consider Mrs As complaint about whether 
Studio had acted fairly in respect of the regulated lending it had provided, and they ultimately 
found that Studio had acted fairly in asking Mrs A to repay the lending and not issuing a 
refund despite the dispute about the quality of the items.
Mrs A didnt agree, she said that she ought to be given a refund for cost of the items in 
question. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Studio comes under this services jurisdiction, but it has acted in two different capacities in 
dealing with Mrs A. Theres an important distinction to be made here, and its relevant to 
whether or not the complaint relates to an activity we can consider.
In selling goods to Mrs A, Studio has acted as a retailer. It was also acting as a retailer in 
handling subsequent issues about the quality of those goods. So, Mrs As current dispute 
about the quality of the items she was provided relates to Studios role as a retailer. This 
service has no power to consider complaints about Studios activities as a retailer. 
However, Studio has also acted as the provider of regulated lending to Mrs A by providing 
her with a running credit account regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Our rules (known as DISP and found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook) say that 
we can consider complaints about a business covered by our jurisdiction as long the 
complaint is about a regulated activity, or other specified. 
DISP 2.3.1R specifically sets this out. The regulated activities our rules refer to are set out in 
The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). 
Article 60B(2) of the RAO says that exercising a lenders rights and duties under a regulated 
credit agreement is a regulated activity.
Studio has attempted to exercise a lenders rights and duties under a regulated credit 
agreement by asking Mrs A to repay sums lent to her under her running account credit 
agreement. Mrs A asserts that Studio has not acted fairly by doing so and says Studio ought 
to refund sums shes paid towards the agreement. In other words, shes expressed 
dissatisfaction about the administration of her regulated credit agreement. Thats something 
which this service has the power to consider a complaint about  independently of any 
dispute about Studios retail activity.
So, I can consider whether Studio has acted fairly in asking Mrs A to repay the lending it 
provided to her and whether or not it ought to refund those sums, independently of Mrs As 
dispute about the quality of the goods she was provided.
Mrs As regulated agreement set out that Studio would provide lending for certain purchases 
and also the terms on which she would be required to repay that lending. It doesnt say that 
Mrs A neednt repay the lending or would receive a refund in the event of a dispute about the 
quality of the goods purchased. And its clear theres a dispute about whether or not the 
goods were of satisfactory quality. 
Taking that into account, I dont think that Studio has acted unfairly by asking Mrs A to repay 
sums it lent her under the agreement, despite her dispute, nor has it acted unfairly by 
declining to refund those sums.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman