DRN-1731245
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) is deducting too much 
tax from her pension withdrawal payments. She says she then has to go through a lengthy 
process to recover the overpaid tax from Her Majesty's Customs and Exercise (HMRC) 
causing her inconvenience and financial loss. Mrs C wants Standard Life to apologise for its 
error, pay interest on the overpaid tax and compensation.
What happened
In January 2019, Mrs C closed her stakeholder pension scheme and transferred her 
pension into a drawdown pension arrangement. She took 25% of her pension fund as tax 
free cash and an income withdrawal of £10,000. Tax was payable on the income withdrawal 
at Mrs C's marginal tax rate. 
As Standard Life didn't have Mrs C's tax code at the time of withdrawal,  it used an 
emergency tax code to enable the tax due on the income payment to be calculated. 
Shortly after that, Mrs C received her tax code. Mrs C paid more tax on her income 
withdrawal than was due in the 18/19 tax year. Mrs C reclaimed the overpaid tax from 
HMRC.
In June 2019, Mrs C made another income withdrawal of £10,000. In advance of the 
withdrawal, she provided Standard Life with her tax code. Her husband also went in to see 
Standard Life to try and avoid a similar situation occurring as with her January 2019 income 
withdrawal. He was assured by Standard Life that the tax code would be taken into account 
and only the correct tax deducted.
Standard Life deducted tax on Mrs C's income withdrawal, it said, in line with HMRC's 
required approach to deducting tax. As Mrs C only made one income withdrawal that tax 
year (19/20), she ended up again having to reclaim overpaid tax from HMRC.
Mrs C complained to Standard Life. It did not uphold her complaint. She complained to our 
service. Our adjudicator looked into Mrs C's complaint and didn't  recommend upholding it. 
Our adjudicator concluded that Standard Life had acted in a fair way and deducted tax at 
source, in the way it was required to do under HMRC guidelines.
Mrs C didn't accept our adjudicator's view. She said, in summary, that Standard Life ignored 
HMRC's statements about the amount she could receive tax-free. She also said that 
Standard Life had said it was not responsible for calculating how much tax was due, when it 
had. Further, she said, the comment about the earlier in the tax year the withdrawal was 
made, the more tax will be deducted, appeared wrong. She pointed out that the tax taken in 
January 2019 was around 7.5 times the actual tax due, and 5.5 times the tax due in respect 
of the earlier in the tax year June 2019 payment.
Mrs C's complaint comes to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint
Having done so, I agree with our adjudicator, I can't fairly uphold Mrs C's complaint as 
Standard Life's approach to tax deductions was in line with HMRC rules and guidance. I 
can't therefore see that Standard Life has done anything wrong here.  I'll explain why.
In January 2019, Standard Life didn't have Mrs C's tax code, so it appropriately used an 
emergency code for the purposes of calculating the tax payable on Mrs C's income 
withdrawal. The tax payable under the emergency code was  higher than the tax which 
would've been payable under Mrs C's actual tax code, which wasn't available at the time. 
That might explain why the overpayment seemed higher, even though the withdrawal was 
made later in the tax year. 
In June 2019, Standard Life used Mrs C's actual tax code for the purposes of calculating the 
tax payable. Our adjudicator explained how the system works. The tax-free personal 
allowance is included in the tax code provided by HMRC. This allowance is calculated over a 
yearly basis -  in Mrs C's case,  her tax-free cash was £8,422 for the year. For the 2019/20 
tax year, a 53 week year was used due to the dates involved. So this meant that Mrs C's 
personal allowance was £159 per week. Standard Life received Mrs C's income withdrawal 
request in week 11 of the tax year, which meant her total tax -free allowance, up to that 
point, was £1,750.
Standard Life deducted £1,750 from the £10,000 income withdrawal payment and the 
remainder was taxed at Mrs C's marginal rate of tax, which was 20%. This led to a total 
of £1,650 tax being paid to HMRC. So, I don't agree that Standard Life ignored the 
information from HMRC about Mrs C's tax-free allowance.
Mrs C's intention may have been to only make one income withdrawal that tax year. But, the 
tax system doesn't operate in the way Mrs C would like it to. It allows for any number of 
withdrawals across the tax year, with the overall amount of tax payable being reconciled at 
the year end.
I appreciate it may be frustrating for Mrs C to have to claim back the overpaid tax from 
HMRC direct in the way she has. But, I can't fairly hold Standard Life responsible for this, on 
either occasion, given that it acted within HMRC's tax deduction rules. As I can't fairly say 
that Standard Life has done anything wrong, I make no award.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs C's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman