DRN-3857502
The complaint
Mr F complains about the transfer of his holdings by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited, referred to HL or the business to a third-party business referred to 
as the transferee. 
What happened
In summary, according to the Investigator Mr F instructed the transferee to start transferring 
his holdings with HL. In due course it was apparent that not all the funds were acceptable 
and some required conversion. The transferee subsequently sent conversion instructions, 
but these were missed by HL resulting in a delay of about six weeks. This was an example 
of a longer delay. 
HL upheld the complaint and apologised for the delay and poor service. It initially offered Mr 
F £250 compensation but subsequently increased the offer to £350 for the delay and poor 
service, which also included issues relating to accounting irregularities which hed raised 
separately in due course. HL said this amount would be credited to his bank account, which I 
understand has been done in line with the offer  prior to the complaint being referred to us  
via two payments.  
Fundamentally, Mr F wants to know why the process took so long and which business was 
responsible for the delay. He says hes been kept out of the market for months and was 
inconvenienced, messed around, and misled by the process. He doesnt accept the redress 
paid is fair and reasonable. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
A brief chronology of events is as follows:
o20 April 2021  Mr F instructed the transferee to initiate the transfer process 
and HL was contacted shortly thereafter. 
o26 April 2021  HL sent over a valuation of Mr Fs holdings. 
o26 May 2021  the transferee sent acceptance, and a request, to convert 
some of the assets that couldnt be transferred.  
o2 June 2021  Mr F requested his cash to be transferred as a priority. 
o7 July 2021  The transferee chased HL. HL also received acknowledgement 
to convert assets.
o19 July 2021  HL sent an updated valuation including the assets which were 
converted. 
o30 July 2021  HL received the transferees acceptance with account details 
to transfer the cash and funds. 
o2 August 2021  HL acknowledged the acceptance and started the transfer. 
o3 August 2021  HL transferred the cash. 
o4 August  HL confirmed that some assets were rejected due to incorrect re-
registration details, it requested the correct details from the transferee. 
oBetween 6 and 16 August 2021  Majority of the holdings were transferred. 
o17 August  HL received the correct re-registration details for the fund 
manager of Blackrock. 
o31 August 2021  The residual cash was transferred to the transferee. 
o16 September 2021  HL notified by the transferee that the L&G International 
Trust holding hadnt transferred. 
o29 September 2021  the fund manager incorrectly said that it had completed 
the (relevant) transfer when it hadnt. So, HL had to instruct it to complete the 
transfer (again). 
o13 October 2021  the last transfer was completed. 
Transfers can involve more than just the two businesses, such as fund managers 
and custodians. This was the case in this instance and should be considered when 
looking at delay. 
HL acknowledged that it was responsible for some of the delays. It sent the valuation 
on 26 April 2021 and received instructions from the transferee to convert the assets 
on 26 May 2021. HL actioned the conversion on 8 July 2021, some six weeks later.  
In the circumstances, £350 compensation for the delays is broadly fair and 
reasonable. 
Once the transferee sent its acceptance to the updated valuation, the transfer by HL 
was completed fairly soon. 
The above notwithstanding, HL accepts it made an error when converting the wrong 
share class, from C to R, on the L&G fund. The transferee was able to rectify this 
fairly soon thereafter so that further delays werent encountered. 
There were some others delays, but these were outside the control of the business. 
For example, the fund manager of the L&G European Index Trust fund incorrectly 
informed HL that the fund had transferred on 2 August 2021  but the error wasnt 
identified until the transferee chased HL in September 2021. 
HL confirmed that the client or the new provider can give conversion instructions, at 
or prior to, acceptance. The terms at A36  transferring your investment from the 
HL Service  makes this clear:
oIf a conversion is required to transfer as stock the new provider will need to 
specifically request this and the conversion will be subject to our fund 
conversion policy (see section I for details). This may cause a delay for which 
we accept no liability. Please note that your ability to place trades in respect 
of the investments in your Account will be restricted once you have instructed 
us to commence the transfer process. You are not permitted to trade those 
investments online during that period.
The terms further state:
oWhat happens during the transfer? 
Stock  Transferring stock can take up to 6 weeks. Sometimes it can take 
longer as were reliant on your new provider and the managers of any funds 
you may hold.
In the circumstances, she cant ask HL to do anymore. Mr F will have agreed to the 
terms and conditions at the outset, which set out what the business aims to do and 
why it might not always be able to achieve this. 
Mr F chose not to trade on his account and wasnt kept out of the market because 
this was an in-specie transfer. 
In the circumstances she wont be asking the business to do anymore.  
Mr F disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Theres 
been much correspondence between Mr F, the business, and the investigator, but in 
summary, he made the following key points:
Our service failed to investigate his complaint properly by which he means objectively 
and in an even-handed manner. The investigator effectively disagreed with all of his 
submissions. The first part of the decision is full of typographical and grammatical errors which 
suggests that it was written in a hurry, compared to the latter part, where she 
dedicated more time and attention to clarifying HLs position. 
The complaint is about the delayed transfer of his stocks and shares ISA which took 
177 days to complete  20 April to 13 October 2021  not 167 days as suggested. 
According to the investigator, he played no role in the process other than to initiate 
the process. A better investigator wouldve grasped that but for his repeated 
interventions, the transfer wouldve taken longer as alluded to in his letter to the HLs 
chief executive officer (CEO) dated October 2021. By failing to consider his 
unwanted catalytic role the investigator has failed to address one of the most 
important elements of his complaint. Instead, shes been formulating reasons, not 
even raised by HL, to defend its position. 
Given the government declaration on ISA transfers, he thought the issue would be 
fairly straightforward to deal with - determining the time limit by when the ISA transfer 
shouldve completed, then how long it actually took, and what redress should be 
awarded as a result of the delays.  
The Individual Savings Account Regulations 1998 (the ISA Regulations) set out the 
ISA transfer rules, but our online wording is somewhat confusing in terms of our 
reference to business days which the ISA Regulations dont refer to and reference 
to working days. Also, the ISA Regulation states in terms that the transfer of a 
stocks and shares ISA must not exceed (30 calender) days which isnt reflected by 
our working. In any event, the ISA Regulations are absolute and dont allow for any 
excuses for non-compliance, including fund conversion. 
The Government guidance the investigator refers to is the Government declaration 
which is a summary of the legal obligations  under the ISA Regulations  imposed 
on ISA managers. 
The technical desk concerns him and calls into question the impartiality of our 
service, in terms of what advice mightve been given to HL or the transferee in this 
instance that hes not privy to.  
The investigator calculated backwards and scraped the barrel looking for reasons to 
justify the redress and thats why her conclusion is wrong.  
His chronology, as stated in his letter to HLs CEO, is divided into eight parts which 
makes clear the delay. Theres no reference to his communication with the parties, 
and there are a number of errors in her chronology. For example:
oHer chronology doesnt refer to any of his communications with HL or the 
transferee, save to say he gave unspecified instructions on 20 April 2021, and 
a request for his cash on 2 June 2021 but doesnt say to whom.  
oHe first requested HL to transfer the cash in his ISA, less an amount to cover 
its fees before his stock transfer was completed in a secure message on 11 
May 2021. HL didnt reply until 2 June 2021. 
oHis ISA comprised of four asset classes  namely: ordinary shares; unit 
trusts; an investment trust; and exchange traded fund (ETF). The 
investigators failure to recognise and distinguish between these investment 
types is sloppy or showed lack of understanding. He notes she refers to 
shares being converted rather than unit trusts being converted from one 
class to another.  
oShe vaguely refers to majority of his holdings being transferred between 6 
and 16 August but doesnt refer to which investments werent transferred. 
oShe refers to an unidentified fund held with Blackrock  he held eight, so this 
was unhelpful. 
oUnlike his chronology, it provides very few clues as to HL and the transferees 
liability.
In terms of timing:
oIt took seven days for HL to prepare its first asset list of 26 April 2021, and twelve days from 7 July 2021 to prepare a revised list of 19 July 2021. 
oThe transferee took 31 days to respond to HLs first list and 11 days to 
respond to their revised list. 
oHL took 42 days (six weeks) to respond to the transferees fund conversion 
request of 26 May 2021. 
oFrom 7 July 2021, HL took 12 days, to convert the required unit trust holdings 
with the exception of one fund (Lindsell Train Global Equity) which was 
converted later. 
oHL and the transferee took a total of 73 days from 2 August 2021 to complete 
the transfer and settlement of his ISA portfolio. 
The investigators comments about the involvement of third parties in this process 
demonstrates that she has completely disregarded the Government declaration and 
Regulation 4(7) of the ISA Regulations. 
The investigator applied a jobsworth attitude to resolving the complaint. The fact 
that someone other than HL made an error or omission that might or might not have 
delayed the transfer didnt absolve HL from taking steps to absolve that error. 
Fund manager and custodians arent free spirits, they respond to the businesses. 
Despite what the investigator says, she hasnt substantiated her accusation that each 
of the fund managers of his unit trust contributed to the delay. 
Theres no factual basis for the assertion that a third party was responsible for the 
delays. HL explained that there were problems with the transfer of 11 of his unit trust 
holdings in 47 unit trusts at the time. In the investigators rush to exculpate HL shes 
made false accusations. 
Despite what the investigator says about HLs problems with L&Gs European Index 
Trust fund, its self-defeating since it doesnt show HL in a favourable light. The issue 
appears to be limited to one unit trust and not the others as suggested. 
The investigator hasnt taken into account HL accepting that it hasnt been more 
proactive in chasing the fund after receiving incorrect information. This lack of 
proactivity on the part of the business and the transferee isnt unique. 
The error that HL made in converting his holdings in L&Gs International Index Trust 
fund into the wrong class was regrettable but appears to have no effect in itself on 
the time taken to transfer although it caused him some confusion. But it shows one 
party was able to make good an error by another party without standing on formality. 
The investigator hasnt been able to reference where her quote from the terms and 
conditions (Term A36) came from, despite asking her to do so, which he finds 
unacceptable. 
The current terms sent to him, werent the ones that were in force at the time. They? 
came into force from 6 April 2022. 
Despite the points raised by the investigator, the investigators view is inconsistent 
with the businesss concession that it made a mistake. 
HL didnt exclude their liability under the FCA rules, or their own negligence and its 
inconsistent with Regulation 4 of the ISA Regulations. 
In a letter dated March 2021, HL undertook to complete the transfer, within 30 days, 
upon receipt of instructions. Any such carve out referred to by the investigator 
(above) would be contrary to Regulation 4 of the ISA Regulations. 
Section A36 appears to be concerned with delays due to third parties. 
HL was negligent in failing to promptly, and diligently, act upon the transferees 
request of 26 May 2021. 
The investigator doesnt mention which types of investments were transferred from 
HL to the transferee, the number of investments and their value. 
His ISA portfolio comprised four direct shareholdings, 47 unit trust holdings, one 
investment trust, and one ETF at the material time. The only complication so far as 
its transfer in specie was concerned was that of 20 of his unit trust holdings, 
required to be converted into different class, since the transferee wouldnt accept that class. 
The transfer wasnt complex or difficult, neither party has said that it was, this makes 
the delays they were responsible for more difficult to justify. Neither say it wouldve 
been difficult to complete the transfer within this period. 
In this instance the 30-day transfer limit had already passed once the transferee 
responded to HLs asset list. 
The investigator simply doesnt say which business is responsible. She concedes 
that HL took six weeks to action the transferees request  and inaccurately 
described as a single oversight. 
The transferee was responsible for not responding to HLs asset list until 26 May 
2021, and HL were clearly responsible for taking until 19 July to make all but one 
fund conversion that the transferee had requested. It would appear that HL only 
commenced the conversion process on 8 July 2021, presumably as a result of his 
message the day before.     
HL said that it sent the transferee a revised asset list on 19 July 2021. However, the 
transferee doesnt appear to have noticed until a week or so later that HL hadnt 
converted his holding in one fund (Lindsell Train Global Equity Fund). 
Yet again, he had to intervene to progress matters. It wasnt until 30 July 2021 that 
the transferee issued its formal transfer request to HL which was apparently 
accepted on 2 August 2021. For some reason, the conversion of his holding in 
Lindsell Trains Global Equity Fund was still outstanding on 10 August 2021, for 
which HL has to take responsibility. 
The investigator has overlooked the fact that the transfer of his portfolio took from on 
or about 2 April to 13 October 2021 to complete. A reasonable person wouldnt think 
that this was reasonably quickly.  
Given the issues, he doesnt understand why HL and the transferee hadnt arranged 
for the transfer to be completed in two or more stages, leaving those investments that 
needed converting till later. 
HL said that the transferee is also responsible but didnt provide details. 
For various reasons, he doesnt think the redress is suitable. 
HL paid the sum to him, in two installments, without there being any other issue. 
The fairness can only be determined once the causes of the delay have been settled. 
The amount offered was based on HLs own calculations. But so far as the evidence 
shows that its responsible for more than it takes responsibility for, the redress is 
unfair.
By taking into account the additional £100 offered  which encompass accounting 
inadequacies  the investigator has miscalculated the redress. In any case the status 
of the two amounts is unclear, in that its unclear if theyre compensatory in nature or 
goodwill payments. 
It doesnt constitute an award because it hasnt been awarded by a court. 
In any case, it doesnt take into account the time spent by him dealing with this 
complaint.  
Despite what investigator says, he never said that hed been kept out of the market 
for six months. 
He should be paid a higher amount of redress to bring the compensation to £350 just 
for the delays. 
Mr F made some case specific points and some general points  reiterating much of 
the key points. He then reiterated why he thought the investigator had many 
shortcomings that went beyond just inattention to detail. The result being the 
investigator has created a false narrative, resulting in an incorrect conclusion and 
redress.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. On 
balance, Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
Because the business upheld the complaint, the key issue for me to consider is redress and 
whether or not its reasonable in the circumstances  I note the investigator took a similar 
approach in drafting her view and why she didnt go into detail about why HL was to blame. 
I note Mr F doesnt agree with this approach, but I think its a reasonable approach in the 
circumstances. Also, because this specific complaint is against HL, I wont be considering 
the transferees liability, in my findings in this complaint. I dont think the investigator was 
wrong to take a similar approach. 
Having considered the issue of redress, Im not going to uphold this complaint, on the basis 
that the £350 compensation already paid  before the complaint was referred to our service 
 is broadly fair and reasonable.  
Im aware that in October 2021, Mr F was initially offered £250 compensation for the delays 
and poor service, but the offer was subsequently increased a month later to £350 and this, in 
addition to being payment for the delay and poor service, also encompassed payment for 
some accounting irregularities. 
Whilst I appreciate that Mr F would like a single payment of £350 just in relation to the 
delays, Im unable to say that the payment already made and referred to above is 
unreasonable. In other words, despite what Mr F says, in the circumstances I think the offer 
is broadly fair and reasonable and broadly covers the issues raised by him. 
I dealt with Mr Fs linked complaint against the transferee, which Ive provisionally upheld, on 
the basis that I think an additional £100  totalling £250 compensation for its part in the 
delays and the impact on Mr F  was broadly fair and reasonable. So, in the circumstances 
Im mindful that Mr F will likely receive a combined total of £600 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience caused by the delays and poor service experienced during the transfer 
process. Although I make clear that this isnt my basis for rejecting this complaint. 
Had the request been processed without issue, and all parties involved in the transfer 
fulfilled their roles in a timely and effective manner without error  which is uncommon  its 
likely the transfer wouldve completed much sooner. But its difficult to know (with any degree 
of certainty) by when, given that each party has its own role to play and sometimes things 
take longer to process (even though no party is at fault). Its after all a somewhat dynamic 
process. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Fs strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided detailed submissions 
to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. 
I also can assure Mr F that I have reviewed all of the evidence on file. To that end, Ive 
included a reasonably detailed chronology of the complaint in the what happened section of 
this decision, including his latest submissions, which greatly exceeds the customary background summary usually contained in a final decision. I also confirm that I have 
reviewed this file entirely independently. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr F, and the business, and reach what I think 
is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. And as part 
of my inquisitorial role, I can also consider (other) issues that I think are relevant as well as 
not consider issues that I consider arent relevant.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think the compensation offered by the 
business is broadly fair and reasonable for the following key reasons:
The business quite rightly accepts that it caused delay and didnt provide a level of 
service that Mr F could expect, and most likely encompassed numerous issues 
raised by him. I note HL has sincerely apologised for this. 
I dont think its necessary in this instance to go through each point, line by line, and 
as I explained above thats not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in 
this case.  
Notwithstanding Mr Fs detailed and eloquent response, Im not required to produce a 
response that mirrors his (19-page) response to the investigators view.  
HL accepts that it didnt communicate with Mr F better, so as to keep him informed 
about what was happening. As a consequence, Mr F ended up chasing the business 
and I agree (with him) its not something that he needed to have done  it wouldve 
been down to the respective parties to progress matters without further input from 
him. 
Its likely that had Mr F not intermittently intervened and pushed matters along, the 
transfer process probably wouldve taken longer. However, this doesnt of itself mean 
that Mr F is entitled to greater compensation, its arguable that he has mitigated his 
loss by diligently acting as he did. 
Despite what Mr F says about the (delayed) transfer and loss, Im mindful that the 
relevant investments were transferred in-specie, and those that couldnt be  through 
no fault of HL  were in due course converted and then transferred at a later date. 
In this instance, and on balance, I dont think theres any issue referring the different 
asset classes as investments  Im aware that Mr F and the business are very 
familiar with the facts of this case. 
I note that the cash was transferred in due course, this usually happens when the 
other investments have been transferred in-specie. So, I dont think theres 
necessarily an issue with this. 
I note Mr Fs dissatisfaction with the investigators chronology, but it is only a general 
summary, and theres no obligation to detail Mr Fs dealings with the business.    
Despite the delays for which the business accepts responsibility, Im not persuaded 
that its responsible for the delays alluded to by Mr F. A business is to some extent 
obliged to mitigate delays perpetrated by third parties, but only if it reasonably can. It 
cant be blamed for not making right errors by other businesses if its incapable of 
doing so. 
In this instance Im satisfied that Mr F remained invested in the markets, therefore is 
unlikely to have suffered the losses claimed. Despite any changes to the value of his 
investments, the business wouldnt be responsible because it cant predict or control 
the financial markets so isnt responsible for any issues suffered.  On balance, Im also satisfied that Mr F had the opportunity to trade if thats what he 
wanted to do. I appreciate trading over the phone probably isnt the same as trading 
online in the way he mightve been used to, but it was nevertheless an opportunity to 
trade if he was keen to do so  on balance it would seem he wasnt. 
Im not suggesting that by trading over the phone there might not have been an 
impact on the transfer process and timing, but the opportunity still meant that Mr F 
could trade if he was keen to do so.  
Notwithstanding Mr Fs comments regarding the ISA Regulations, in my opinion a 
business cant reasonably be expected to complete a transfer within a set timeframe 
(as set by the rules) when there are third parties involved for which it has no 
responsibility and/or control.
In this case Im not considering whether a specific third-party was to blame for the 
delays, just that other parties were involved, and the business cant be held 
responsible for their actions. 
This doesnt of course mean that HL doesnt then have to take reasonable steps to 
continue to try and complete the transfer within a reasonable amount of time, and/or 
overcome any errors if it can. But the business cant be blamed for acting (or not 
acting because it didnt think it needed to) based on information provided by third 
party businesses  for example when it was told in August that a transfer had taken 
place, but it hadnt. 
Like Mr F, it seems HL (as the transferor) is also at the mercy of several parties 
including, the custodian, fund manager and transferee, which means through no fault 
of its own, it cant always achieve what it hopes to. Whether its an issue with one unit 
trust or several this is likely to impact the businesss ability to move things along. 
Many of the issues faced during the process probably couldnt have been identified 
and dealt with at the outset  such as which class of investment could be accepted, 
which are supported by the new platform and so on, because Mr F clearly wanted to 
transfer his entire portfolio as per his instructions. These things are more often than 
not dealt with as and when they arise and arent the fault of the parties. 
Im mindful that this case involved investments that had to be converted, and 
reclassified, because they werent supported and therefore couldnt just be 
transferred without some change. Thats not something I can blame HL for. 
Despite what Mr F says, my role isnt to make any legal determinations. Specific legal 
questions are to be determined by the courts. In this instance Im only considering 
whether or not the redress paid is fair and reasonable and on balance I believe it is. 
Despite what Mr F says, Im not persuaded that the section referred to by the 
investigator is at odds with the general guidance or regulation in respect of ISA 
transfers. HL is unlikely to have given any guarantees about how long the process 
would take when there are other parties involved, who can also make errors.  
HL quite rightly accepts that it failed to act on the transferees request during the fund 
conversion and that it was an error on its part resulting in slowing the process down 
by at least six weeks. I appreciate this is only part of the delay, for which it is solely 
responsible, but it is a major delay that no doubt impacted the overall process. 
From experience, Im aware that the general terms make reasonably clear the 
position with regards to timing, what HL aims to achieve and why it might not 
sometimes achieve this. For the reason set out above, this isnt at odds with the 
regulator/legal position. 
The delay for which HL accepts responsibility, and matters which were outside of its 
control, aside, Im satisfied that it still took reasonable steps to move things along.    
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr F says, I think the 
£350 compensation offered by the business for the delay and poor service is broadly 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. In other words, for a number of small errors 
over a reasonably short period of time the redress is reasonable. In this instance, its 
not necessary for me to breakdown this figure  Im aware that the issues relate to Mr Fs investments and are the subject of this complaint. Despite what Mr F says, in this 
instance, I dont agree that the investigators conclusion in respect of this amount is 
unreasonable.     
I appreciate Mr F will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. 
Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im not persuaded to require the business to do anything 
having already him the £350 it offered. 
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to give him 
what he wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited have already paid Mr F £350 which I 
think fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman