DRN-3215590
The complaint
Mr L complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly rejected a claim 
he made for loss of rent under a Properties insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L owns a property which he rents out. The property is used for both commercial and 
residential purposes. The tenant closed the commercial part of the property because of 
Government instructions due to the Covid-19 pandemic and Mr L made a claim for his loss 
of rent in January 2021 (through his broker). He says the tenants daughter who resides in 
the residential part tested positive for Covid-19 on 1 December 2020.
RSA explained that cover didnt apply because Mr L was required to show that Covid-19 
occurred at the premises prior to its closure or the imposition of restrictions. The fact that the 
daughters test post-dated the instruction to close showed it was unlikely there was Covid-19 
on the commercial premises. RSA pointed out that the policy excluded claims for the 
occurrence of a notifiable disease at any residential property. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld as he didnt think Mr L had 
demonstrated that Covid-19 had occurred at the insured premises.  And he stated the policy 
excluded cover for loss of rent resulting from an outbreak or occurrence of Covid-19 at any 
residential property.
The investigators view was that the commercial business closed as a result of the 
Government restrictions intended to control the spread of Covid-19. There was insufficient 
evidence to show it closed as a result of Covid-19 occurring at the premises.
Mr L disagreed with the investigator. In summary, he said:
The tenants daughter helps at the commercial premises and it was probable that she 
had infected the premises before her diagnosis.
There was one client who had Covid-19 but couldnt be traced.
The Supreme Court held that it was sufficient to show at the time of a particular 
measure there was at least one case of Covid-19 in the geographical area, and it 
cant be limited to the commercial premises itself but likely a radius.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls policy covers him for loss of rent in certain circumstances. Its not in dispute, but worth 
pointing out, that residential properties are excluded where the loss of rent results from an 
outbreak or occurrence of Covid-19 at the residential premises.
The loss of rent cover applicable in Mr Ls case must be a result of closure of the whole or 
part of the Buildings on the order or advice of any local or governmental authority as a result
of certain things including, an outbreak or occurrence at the Premises of a notifiable human 
disease (this includes Covid-19).
So, Mr L must demonstrate on the balance of probabilities that the (commercial) premises 
closed because of an outbreak or occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises. The only 
persuasive evidence of Covid-19 is the daughters positive test result. But the problem is 
showing this was an outbreak or an occurrence at the commercial premises, which led to the 
Governments decision to impose the Regulations. 
The date of the positive test is 1 December 2020, yet the property closed almost four weeks 
prior due to Government restrictions. Even taking into account general assumptions on 
incubation periods for Covid-19, and that the daughter was on the commercial premises, Im 
not persuaded by Mr Ls evidence that the commercial premises closed because of an 
occurrence at the commercial premises. 
Im satisfied, on balance, that the closure was a result of the Government-imposed 
restrictions in November 2020 and January 2021. The positive Covid-19 test provided is too 
remote from the lockdowns in November and January to demonstrate closure was due to an 
outbreak or occurrence at the premises, which resulted in a loss of rent. 
It's also noteworthy that the specific policy Mr L had was not one considered in the litigation 
about Business Interruption Insurance that was ultimately decided in The Supreme Court. 
Mr Ls policy (around loss of rent due to Covid-19) is specifically restricted to an at or on the 
premises basis. So the issue of radius hes mentioned doesnt apply. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman