DRN-2422283
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out PPI alongside a mortgage that started in 1993. The policy provided 
them with accident, sickness and unemployment cover in the event that Mr H couldnt work. 
In 1996 Mr and Mrs H took out a further advance on their mortgage account. They also took 
out additional PPI that would cover their increased mortgage monthly repayments if Mr H 
lost his job unexpectedly or was unable to work as a result of illness or disability.
Our adjudicator didnt think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mr and Mrs H disagree 
and theyve put forward a number of points in support of their complaint. 
In summary, Mr and Mrs H mainly said that Nationwides sales tactics led to them taking out 
PPI that they didnt want or need. Mr and Mrs H told us that Nationwide said it couldnt 
guarantee early release of the mortgage money unless they also agreed to accept 
Nationwides PPI insurance  and as Mr and Mrs H wanted the money as quickly as possible 
they signed up for the PPI.
Mr and Mrs H told us they had ample other means to cover the mortgage monthly 
repayments if Mr H wasnt able to work. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Ive looked at the complaint afresh  
and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. Ive decided not 
to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
what happened in 1993
Nationwide cant tell us how the policy was sold. Usually, Id expect the paperwork to show 
whats likely to have happened at the time and how the PPI was likely to have been 
presented. But Nationwide hasnt been able to provide any documents signed by 
Mr and Mrs H to show how they took out the PPI. 
I dont think thats surprising given that the mortgage account closed more than 22 years 
ago. I wouldnt expect Nationwide to have kept records about a closed account for so long.
Mr and Mrs H told us they remember speaking with an advisor in a Nationwide branch when 
they arranged their mortgage and the PPI. So I think its likely thats what happened.
Ive taken into account everything Mr and Mrs H say about how Nationwide sold them the 
PPI. But it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs H to be able to recall exactly what 
was discussed at the time. So what they say about the way they were sold the PPI isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint. I have to look at everything 
and decide, on balance, what I think is most likely. And I must be impartial. 
I havent seen anything to make me think it was likely that PPI was required with their 
mortgage or automatically included. Mr and Mrs H wouldve had to say if they wanted PPI. 
In order to be able to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs mis-selling complaint, Id have to find that its 
likely that they werent given a fair choice about PPI when they took it out in 1993 or that it 
was added to the account without their consent. 
Based on the information Ive seen, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as 
optional or that it was added to Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage without their consent. 
Their mortgage was a significant financial commitment, due to run for 25 years. 
Mr and Mrs Hs home couldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. Looking at what Mr and Mrs H have told me about their financial situation, it seems to 
me they couldve found PPI useful if Mr H had needed to claim. The PPI provided a 
dependable means of ensuring their monthly repayments were protected even if Mr H 
couldnt work. I think its likely this wouldve been an important consideration for them given 
that Mr H was substantially the main earner. On balance, I think its more likely that 
Mr and Mrs H decided they wanted to have the benefits that PPI offered them and they 
chose to buy the policy  even if understandably theyve forgotten this now. 
I've taken into account that Mr H says the policy was completely unsuitable for their needs.
Nationwide says it didnt recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs H. And looking at what this service 
knows about how Nationwide sold policies in its branches in 1993, I dont think its likely it 
personally recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs H. So it wasnt up to Nationwide to check 
whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Hs needs.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H feel strongly that the way PPI was presented and explained 
to them amounted to a recommendation. But even if Mr and Mrs H feel PPI mightve been 
recommended to them, I dont think a recommendation to have PPI wouldve been 
unsuitable  so this doesn't affect the outcome of the complaint. 
Nationwide still should have told Mr and Mrs H enough about the policy for them to be able 
to decide if they wanted to buy it. 
And if that didnt happen, I have to decide whether this makes any overall difference to the 
outcome of this complaint.
On balance, I think its likely that Nationwide did give Mr and Mrs H enough clear information 
for them to be able to decide if PPI was right for them - and where it mightnt have done, 
better information wouldnt have made a difference to their decision to take out PPI for Mr H. 
Mr H was eligible for the policy. He wouldve been able to depend on getting 6 months' full 
sick pay followed by half pay for 6 months from his employer. But, bearing in mind that the 
policy paid out for up to 24 months for each successful accident and sickness claim, it looks 
like the policy couldve paid out for significantly longer than Mr H couldve relied on getting 
sick pay through work. Also, the policy wouldve paid out on top of sick pay giving Mr and Mrs H a useful benefit at 
whats likely to have been a difficult time if Mr  H wasnt able to work  especially as he 
wouldve been on half pay only after 6 months off work at a time when Mr and Mrs H may 
have faced extra costs as a result of Mr H being ill or disabled.  
The policy wouldve also paid out for up to 24 months per claim if Mr H lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work.  
I've taken carefully into account everything Mr and Mrs H have told me about their financial 
situation - including endowment policies they had set up when they took out this mortgage. 
Setting up PPI alongside their mortgage meant they werent at risk of having to cash in any 
of their endowment policies early  possibly when they couldnt be sure of getting a good 
return. And I think Mr and Mrs H probably preferred to keep these as long term investments, 
bearing in mind they kept these policies running rather than cashing them in and using the 
proceeds to reduce the cost of their borrowing when they were applying for their mortgage. 
So I think that having cover in place so they couldve continued to make their monthly 
mortgage repayments without having to rely on endowment policies or other savings 
wouldve provided a useful extra benefit to Mr and Mrs H.
Mr and Mrs H said that a close family member wouldve guaranteed their mortgage monthly 
repayments. And Mr H also told us that his wife was working part time hours only at the start 
of the mortgage  and that she couldve easily increased her hours if necessary to 
supplement the household income if he wasnt able to work. But relying on other people to 
help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as everyones 
circumstances can change unexpectedly.
Mr and Mrs H couldve made repeated claims on the policy, giving them long term protection 
for this mortgage.
So this information doesnt affect my decision. Looking at Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at 
the time, I think the policy couldve been useful to them. 
Its possible some information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI when they took 
out their mortgage wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. There were some things the policy 
didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if Mr H was affected by any of the conditions limiting the 
policys main benefits. So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt 
cover wouldve affected their decision to take it out.
I dont know if or how the policy costs were explained to Mr and Mrs H when they took it out. 
But Ive seen nothing to suggest that the PPI wasnt affordable for them. As this was a policy 
they paid for each month, Mr and Mrs H couldve cancelled it at any time at no extra cost if 
they didnt want to pay for it. what happened in 1996
PPI wasnt extended automatically when Mr and Mrs H arranged their further advance. It 
wouldve been up to them to choose if they wanted to have it. And I can understand why 
they mightve been happy to agree the extra cost of the additional cover. As far as I can see 
their circumstances were broadly the same. The policy gave Mr and Mrs H the same 
benefits and it provided them with the long term protection they already had set up for their 
original mortgage. 
So I think its likely that this PPI was taken out with their further advance as they wanted the 
PPI benefits to cover their increased borrowing. 
Mr H continued to be able to take advantage of all the benefits under the policy. And theres 
nothing to suggest that the extra cost was a problem for them when they wouldve had to set 
up the arrangements at their bank to pay for this additional PPI. 
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But I think 
Mr and Mrs H still wouldve decided to buy the policy if theyd been better informed as it gave 
them useful protection in their particular situation. I dont think having clearer information 
wouldve put them off buying it.
 
Overall, this means I dont find that Mr and Mrs H have lost out as a result of anything that 
Nationwide did wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
Although Mr and Mrs H mentioned some other things during the course of this complaint 
I can see that our adjudicator has already responded on those issues. Theres nothing more 
I can usefully add to what our adjudicator has already said. So in my decision I've 
concentrated on dealing with the main points raised that affect the outcome of this complaint. 
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I very much hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done helps explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman