DRN-2455544
The complaint
This complaint has been brought on behalf of a company (T) by Mr G. Any reference I make 
to Mr G includes that of T or any other representatives unless specified. 
Mr G complains he has overpaid on a hire agreement with Merchant Rentals Limited (MRL) 
for use of a card payment terminal.
What happened
The history of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ive summarised events below.
In July 2012 Mr G entered into a 48-month hire agreement contract (Contract one) 
for use of a card terminal. Then in 2015 Mr G says he was contacted by MRL and 
offered to upgrade the existing card terminal to one which could accept contactless 
payments. He agreed to another 48-month hire agreement, which was accepted in 
November 2015 (Contract two). 
Mr G has said since he believes Contract one ended in November 2015 as the 
terminal was removed and replaced, around 45 months into that agreement.
MRL says the first payment for Contract two was made in March 2016. And it has 
said Mr G was still paying monthly payments for Contract one until February 2016.
Mr G contacted MRL to cancel the contract in November 2019  48 months after 
Contract two was accepted. But MRL said the minimum number of payments hadnt 
been made and wouldnt be for another four months. So, it said Mr G couldnt cancel 
the agreement without incurring a settlement fee. 
Mr G complained, saying hed made all payments under this agreement.
MRL explained it wasnt responsible for the sale of the agreement  this was instead 
a separate sales company. Instead Ts relationship with MRL was only through the 
hire agreement as it is a third-party lease finance company. 
Mr G disagreed and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the first payment towards this 
agreement had been made in March 2016 and it was clear the contract required 48 
payments to be made. 
Mr G disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons:
Mr G hasnt disputed that he is required to make 48 monthly payments under 
Contract two. But hes simply said he has already met this requirement by paying 
until October 2019. 
Ive looked at the evidence available. MRL has provided a VAT schedule from 2015 
that shows the first payment for Contract two would be taken from Mr G on 9 March 
2016. This suggests payments would continue up to and including February 2020.
I think this VAT schedule is persuasive and in turn, Im satisfied MRL is correct in 
saying 48 payments havent been made as Mr G stopped making them in October 
2019. Im satisfied it hasnt acted unfairly in how its dealt with Contract two.
It seems to me Mr Gs disagreement with MRL stems from a previous agreement 
(Contract one) which it has said lasted 48 months, but he says was ended after 44. 
But this isnt the complaint Ive been asked to consider. Nor is it the complaint that he 
brought to MRL or this service previously.
As a result Mr G may wish to complain to MRL in the first instance about Contract 
one. And if it is unable to resolve his concerns, he may be able to bring this to our 
service to consider.
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman