DRN-3535249
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with the settlement Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
(LBG) offered for a jewellery loss claim under their home insurance policy. The policy is in 
joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mr D throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr D claimed under his home insurance policy for a lost gold, diamond solitaire ring. LBG 
accepted the claim and offered an e-voucher to be used at a specific store, or a cash 
settlement of £550.
After looking at the rings available, Mr D complained that the amount LBG offered wouldnt 
cover the cost of replacement. LBG valued the ring based on 9-carat gold because Mr D 
hadnt been able to prove it was 18-carat gold, although it accepted his description of the 
diamond.
Mr D asked to meet somewhere in the middle for a settlement, but LBG declined because it 
had made an offer in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Our investigator didnt think LBG had done anything wrong, so he didnt uphold the 
complaint. He agreed LBGs offer was in line with the policy.
Mr D didnt agree and asked for further consideration. He said that the rings worn on the 
same finger were 18-carat gold, and different carats shouldnt be worn together. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
My role in respect of this complaint is to decide whether LBG made a settlement offer in line 
with the policy terms and conditions and, if it did, whether it was fair in the overall 
circumstances.
The issue is that Mr D is unhappy with the amount LBG offered to settle his claim for a lost 
gold diamond solitaire ring. LBG said it made an offer in line with the policy due to a lack of 
substantiation.
When making the claim, it was Mr Ds responsibility to prove the loss, including evidence of 
the ring and its value. LBG accepted the ring was lost but it didnt think Mr D had proved the 
gold-type or its value.
Mr D described the ring as an 18-carat gold ring with a single diamond. He provided photos 
of Mrs D wearing the ring. LBG accepted his description of the diamond but it didnt think 
hed provided anything to prove the gold was 18-carat. 
The policy says that Mr D is responsible for providing evidence where LBG asks for it. As he 
couldnt prove the gold type - he didnt have a receipt or any previous valuations  and the 
ring wasn't specified on the policy schedule, LBG obtained an expert valuation based on the 
photos. The expert said there was nothing to confirm the gold was 18-carat, so it based its 
valuation on 9-carat gold.
The policy allows LBG to rely on expert opinion so, in the absence of contradictory evidence, 
it was fair and reasonable for LBG to make a settlement offer in line with the experts 
valuation.
I understand Mr Ds point that jewellers advise against wearing different purities of gold 
together. But I cant fairly say that provides evidence of the gold-type in question here. Mr D 
simply hasnt been able to prove the loss.
I realise Mr D will be unhappy that he cant replace the ring with one of the same 
appearance and specification, or with the same sentimental value. But Im satisfied LBG 
made an offer which reflects the policy cover available  to pay by voucher based on the 
expert valuation, or to offer a reduced cash settlement. Each of these offers allows Mr D to 
replace a gold diamond solitaire ring with another gold diamond solitaire ring, which is what 
the policy provides for.
In summary, the evidence persuades me that LBG made an offer to settle Mr Ds claim for 
the lost ring in line with the policy, so I see no reason to ask it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman