DRN-2063169
The complaint
Mr O complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to him alongside a mortgage in 2001.
 
PPI appears to have been sold to Mr O by an agent acting on behalf of Cheltenham & 
Gloucester. Lloyds has accepted responsibility for this complaint. To keep things simple, I 
have referred to Lloyds for the rest of this decision. 
I can see Mr O has made a number of allegations about the agent. I just want to be clear 
that the scope of the complaint I have considered is whether PPI was mis-sold to Mr O. 
What happened
As I said above, PPI was sold to Mr O in 2001.  Mr O complained to this service in 2020 and 
he said that he had enquired to Lloyds some years before to ask whether hed taken a PPI 
policy out. At that stage, he was told he didnt have PPI. However, he says he received a 
letter in 2019 to say that he did, in fact, have a policy. He then complained about the sale of 
that cover, but Lloyds didnt uphold his complaint. Mr O disagreed with that view and referred 
the matter to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr O set out in detail why he 
disagreed with that view. He also said that he should be compensated for the mistake Lloyds 
made when it said he said he did not have a PPI policy and that he had suffered emotional 
distress because of that error. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
I know that Mr O feels strongly about this case and the manner in which PPI was sold to him. 
I am sorry to disappoint him, but based upon the evidence before me, I cant reasonably say 
PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why below. 
The parties agree that the PPI was sold during a face to face meeting. I accept Mr Os 
recollection that it took place in his home. I cant know what was said during that meeting 
and so to help me decide what is likely to have happened, Ive looked at the documentary 
evidence thats available from the time. And Ive also given careful thought to what Mr O 
remembers about it. 
In his initial questionnaire to this service and also to Lloyds, Mr O said that PPI had been 
added to his mortgage without his knowledge. He said that he thought he had bought a 
home insurance policy only. He said that Lloyds agent did not say anything about a PPI 
policy and that he only found out about the cover some years later. However, in his 
responses to our adjudicator, Mr O said that he was pressured into taking the cover. He said 
Lloyds representative told him that if he didnt take the PPI out, his mortgage would not be 
agreed.  
It is not clear to me how Mr O could recall being pressured into taking the cover out if at the 
same time, he didnt know he had a policy at all. I do very much appreciate that it is difficult 
to remember precisely what happened almost 20 years ago, which is when this cover was 
sold. But I dont think I can rely on what Mr O recalls given that he has provided two very 
differing accounts of the sale. 
On that basis, Ive relied on the documentary evidence. I can see that the mortgage 
application form presented Mr O with two equally prominent boxes in respect of PPI  one to 
tick if he wanted a policy and another to tick if he did not. The box to apply for PPI has been 
selected. Mr O also refused some financial products that were available from the time, so I 
think its most likely there was a discussion between the parties and Mr O chose the cover 
he wanted. 
A separate application form was also completed for the PPI policy itself, so I think Mr O 
would have appreciated the cover was a separate product to the mortgage. I can see a 
separate direct debit mandate was also completed, so I think the PPI premiums would have 
been collected separately to the mortgage. That being so, if Mr O didnt know about the 
cover, I think he would have queried these transactions from his bank account. But the 
evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest he did. 
On balance, I think its most likely that Mr O was aware of the PPI and that he knew he could 
refuse it if he wanted to. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale, which puts extra responsibility on Lloyds to take steps to 
make sure the cover was suitable for Mr Os needs. To help me decide whether the cover 
was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive also carefully 
considered what Mr O told us about his personal circumstances at the time. 
I can see that if hed had to make a claim on the PPI, Mr Os mortgage repayments would 
have been covered for up to 12 months for each claim if he lost his job or if he became 
unwell. 
I can see that in his questionnaire to this service, Mr O said he would have been entitled to 
six months full pay if he was off sick from work. However, in his initial complaint to Lloyds, he 
said he would have been entitled to five weeks only. Even if Mr Os full sick pay was for six 
months, the PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months - longer than his full pay would 
have lasted.  
Mr O also told us that he had some savings, but that they were used as the deposit for the 
property purchase. So I dont think those funds would have been available if Mr O couldnt 
work after hed bought his property. 
Mr O told us he was in good health at the time PPI was sold to him. So I dont think he would 
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I havent 
seen anything unusual about his employment circumstances that would have stopped him 
from making a successful claim if he needed to. 
I must stress that Mr Os mortgage was secured on his property and if he fell behind with his 
mortgage repayments, he could have lost his home. Taking all of the above factors into 
account, I think the PPI probably was suitable for him. When PPI was sold to Mr O, the representative from Lloyds had to give Mr O enough 
information about the cover so he could decide for himself whether it was a good fit for his 
needs. Mr O says that he wasnt given any information about the cover. 
I accept it is possible that the person acting on behalf of Lloyds didnt tell Mr O everything he 
should have done. But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. I also 
have to consider whether Mr O would have acted differently if hed been given all the right 
information. Ive set out above how I think PPI could have been helpful to Mr O if hed been 
out of work. So I dont think hed have changed his mind about the cover even if hed been 
given more or better information. 
As I said above, Mr O told us that he thought Lloyds should pay him compensation because 
he was initially told by the business that he didnt have a PPI policy. He said that Lloyds 
delay had caused him emotional distress. Its not entirely clear to me how Lloyds could have 
caused Mr O such distress if he wasnt aware he had cover until he received the letter. But in 
any event, as I havent upheld the complaint, I cant award further compensation. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman