DRN-2310422
The complaint
Mr N has complained about Armitage Insurance Services. He isnt happy that it wouldnt 
refund his deposit when he chose to cancel his motor insurance policy as he thought it was 
mis-sold to him.   
What happened
Mr N took out car insurance through Armitage at the beginning of the year. He agreed a 
price for fully comprehensive insurance but found out later, before the policy started, that he 
was being charged £200 more than he had agreed. And that the policy wasnt fully 
comprehensive as he had also agreed. 
Mr N complained to Armitage about this and it told him that it didnt have copies of the phone 
calls he made. And when things werent cleared up for him he cancelled his policy. Armitage 
said that it contacted the insurer to arrange cancellation, but it explained it was keeping his 
£280 deposit as it was non-refundable. 
As Mr N wasnt happy about this he complained to Armitage. But it didnt respond or provide 
a final response letter to Mr N as it was supposed to. And when Mr N asked this service to 
look into his complaint Armitage failed to respond to our investigators requests for evidence. 
So he upheld the complaint on the information he had available at that time. 
But Armitage still failed to respond so the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is really disappointing to see that Armitage hasnt engaged with Mr N or this service in any 
meaningful way about this complaint. And this makes the case one sided as I only have Mr 
Ns account to go by in forming my decision. But as Armitage has failed to respond, and I 
have no reason to doubt what Mr N has told this service, I agree that the complaint should 
be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr N says that he was given an initial price of around £1,000 for his car insurance during a 
discussion with Armitage. It later transpired that this wasnt fully comprehensive, so he 
agreed to pay a further £200. But when he received his documentation, before the policy 
started, it turned out that he was being charged £1,400 as opposed to £1,200 so he chose to 
cancel the policy.
Armitage says that it arranged the cancellation of Mr Ns policy but that his deposit (£280) 
wasnt refundable. As Ive already explained this case has been complicated by the fact that 
Armitage have failed to cooperate with this service - it wouldve been useful to have copies 
of the telephone calls that Mr N made, and an outline of what Armitage thinks happened. But 
Im satisfied, from the information Mr N provided, that it should refund Mr N the £280 deposit 
and any further charges he incurred at that time. 
I say this as Mr N didnt want the third party cover it had arranged and didnt agree to pay 
£1,400. So, as the policy hadnt even started when Mr N chose to cancel I think the fair and 
reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is for Armitage to refund 
the £280 and any other costs Mr N incurred in setting up and cancelling the policy. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Armitage 
Insurance Services to refund Mr N his £280 deposit and any other costs incurred.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman