DRN-3684526
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as R, is unhappy with the service it received from TSB 
Bank plc regarding its Bounce Back Loan (BBL). Rs complaint is brought to this service by 
one of its directors, Mrs S.
What happened
In May 2020, R applied to TSB for a BBL, the terms of which included that R wouldnt need 
to make a payment towards the loan for twelve months and that all loan instalments must be 
repaid from a TSB account. The BBL funds were drawdown by R on 18 May 2020.
In September 2020, R switched its business banking from TSB to another bank. This meant 
that when the BBL instalment payments became due in June 2021, there was no existing 
TSB business account in Rs name from which to make those payments.
In July 2021, Mrs S contacted TSB on Rs behalf and asked how R could make payments 
towards the BBL. TSB reminded Mrs S that payments had to be made from a TSB account 
and asked R to open a Loan Servicing Account (LSA) which could be used to administer 
the BBL instalment payments. TSB also advised Mrs S the first monthly payment had been 
due the previous month, in June 2021, which meant that Rs BBL account was in arrears. 
R applied to TSB for an LSA. This was opened on 18 August 2021, by which time the BBL 
account was three months in arrears. Following the opening of the LSA, R didnt clear the 
arrears that had accrued on the BBL to that time and also didnt pay the September 2021 
instalment, meaning that the BBL was now four months in arrears.
TSB spoke with Mrs S about the arrears in September and then October 2021, at which time 
Mrs S raised a complaint because of the length of time it had taken to open the LSA and 
because the letters advising of the LSA, which were dated in August, hadnt been received 
by R until October. Mrs S also felt the arrears on the BBL werent accurate because shed 
received a BBL schedule which said payments would be due from October 2021 onwards.
TSB looked at Rs complaint. They acknowledged the LSA had taken a long time to set up, 
and that when it had been set up, TSB hadnt provided R with correct information. TSB 
apologised and made a payment of £100 to R as compensation for any inconvenience 
incurred. However, TSB felt that the BBL had been administered correctly, and that the 
arrears that had accrued on the BBL were accurate. This meant that, in March 2022, with R 
not having taken steps to clear the arrears outstanding on the BBL, TSB issued a formal 
demand notice which declared that the full balance outstanding of the BBL was now due. 
Mrs S wasnt happy with TSBs response, so she referred Rs complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that TSBs response to Rs 
complaint  including the explanation that the arrears were valid  already represented a fair 
and reasonable resolution to the complaint. Mrs S remained dissatisfied, so Rs complaint 
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The core terms of the BBL scheme were set by the British Business Bank. These included 
that the borrower  in this case R  would be required to start paying monthly instalments 
towards the BBL twelve months after the BBL commenced. These core terms are fixed by 
the British Business Bank, and TSB doesnt have the power to change them. And while loan 
amendment and extension options were made available to BBL account holders  such as 
the Pay As You Grow scheme  the terms of these options were also set by the British 
Business Bank, meaning that if implemented, lenders such as TSB were bound by them.
In this instance, Rs BBL began in May 2020. This meant that R would become liable for 
making monthly instalments towards the BBL in June 2021  as dictated by the terms of the 
BBL to which both R and TSB were bound. As such, it was never the case that R would only 
need to begin making instalment payments towards the BBL in October 2022. And 
consequently, this means Im satisfied that the arrears that accrued on the BBL for the 
months June, July, August, and September 2022 were valid.
Mrs S contends that in August 2021, R received a loan schedule from TSB which stated that 
the next instalment due to be paid by R towards the BBL would be in October 2021. And its 
for this reason that R believe the arrears that have accrued on the BBL between June and 
September are invalid.
TSB dispute that the loan schedule that R refers to was sent in August 2021, and believe 
instead that it was sent in October 2021, following a call between Mrs S and TSB, and note 
that the schedule, while undated, refers to being a schedule of remaining payments, and 
isnt a statement of the commencement of payments. 
TSBs position here makes sense to me, and I feel it better explains the dates and the 
wording on the schedule that Mrs Ss explanation. However, I acknowledge that it could 
potentially be the case that TSB sent the schedule to Mrs S incorrectly in August 2021, 
which I note corresponds with TSBs own admission of poor service and the provision of 
incorrect information to Mrs S, for which it has apologised and paid R compensation.
Ultimately however, I dont feel that it matters whether the schedule was sent incorrectly by 
TSB in August 2021 or correctly by TSB in October 2021. And this is because if TSB did 
make a mistake in August 2021, it doesnt follow that TSB are bound to honour the wording 
of that mistake. And I note that after Mrs S referred to the schedule, TSB explained on 
numerous occasions to her that her understanding of Rs BBL terms was incorrect and that 
Rs BBL account was in multiple months of arrears.
Furthermore, as mentioned previously, its within the terms of Rs BBL that monthly 
instalment payments would begin twelve months after the loan commenced in May 2020. 
And its also notable that when TSB spoke with Mrs S in July 2021  which was before Mrs S 
believes the disputed loan schedule was sent to R in August 2021  she was told at that time 
that Rs BBL account was in arrears because the monthly instalment payments had started 
to become due the month before. 
Additionally, it also must be noted that the terms of the BBL scheme  including the twelve-
month payment deferral  were widely published online, and as such I feel these terms could 
reasonably and easily have been confirmed by Mrs S.
R did pay the BBL instalments that became due from October 2022 onwards. But R didnt clear the arrears that had accrued on its account, despite the validity of these arrears being 
explained to R, and despite R being reminded of the outstanding arrears on several 
occasions, including by a series of collections letters which culminated in a formal demand 
letter sent by TSB to R in March 2022. 
Considering the above, Im satisfied that TSB didnt act unfairly towards R by considering the 
arrears on Rs account to be valid. And Im also satisfied that TSB gave R repeated 
confirmation that the arrears on its account were valid, as well as a fair opportunity to clear 
those arrears. As such, Im similarly satisfied that TSB didnt act unfairly towards R by 
terminating Rs BBL agreement and demanding full repayment of the outstanding BBL 
balance from R as it did.
In regard to the service aspect of Rs complaint, TSB have acknowledged that the LSA 
wasnt set up for R as quickly as should have been the case, and that R wasnt provided with 
correct information at that time. And TSB have made a payment of £100 to R for any 
inconvenience R may have incurred as a result. This feels fair to me, and while R may 
contend that this incorrect information has led to the dispute about when instalment 
payments on the loan should have commenced, I feel that TSB subsequently provided R 
with clarifying information  which as noted, the validity of which was available publicly for R 
to itself confirm  on numerous occasions after that point.  
I also feel it must be noted that, as previously explained, R were informed by TSB in July 
2022 that instalments had begun becoming due in June 2022, and as such I feel that its 
reasonable to have expected R to have set aside the money needed to pay those 
instalments  especially as there was no guarantee that TSB wouldnt agree with its own 
interpretation of when the instalments due on the BBL would commence. And if it was the 
case that R couldnt afford to make the payments for the months in question, then I feel that 
this further confirms the validity of the arrears that TSB correctly and fairly considered as 
having accrued on the account.     
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mrs S was wanting here, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding Rs complaint or instructing TSB to take any further action. I trust that Mrs S will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman