DRN-2342604
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in October 2020 that I summarise below.
Mr P was given two logbook loans by Loans2Go in November 2011 and December 2012.
Loan 1 in November 2011 was for £1,102.50 repayable over 18 months in 78 weekly 
instalments of around £40. The total amount payable if the loan ran to term, including 
interest was just over £3,180.
Loan 2 in December 2012 was for £2,000 repayable over 36 months in 156 weekly
instalments of around £58. The total amount payable, if the loan ran to term,
including interest, was just over £9,127.
I understand both loans accounts are now closed.
When Mr P first complained, Loans2Go initially said it wouldnt consider his complaint about
the second loan because it said it was outside the time limits allowed, but it subsequently
agreed that we could look into the complaint. As Mr P had also complained about his first
loan, we asked Loans2Go if it would agree to this complaint being considered as well.
Loans2Go subsequently provided information about the first loan, so I came to a provisional
decision about both loans.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
Loans2Go needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate in the early stages of the lending relationship.
I said that Loans2Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr P
irresponsibly. And that Loans2Go should have carried out proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that he could repay the loans in a sustainable way. 
I carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Id seen about this
matter in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Loans2Go carried out some checks before it gave the first loan to Mr P which included
asking for details of his income and expenditure. It also asked for bank statements and it
verified Mr Ps salary. I hadnt seen the results of any credit checks carried out at the time.
But from what Id have seen, I thought Loans2Gos checks were likely to have been 
reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances.
The income and expenditure assessment for his loan application suggested that Mr P had
no other credit commitments. On the face of it, it seems that he had sufficient disposable
income to afford the loan. But the lender was required to establish whether Mr P could 
sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The information gathered by Loans2Go showed that Mr P had regularly been borrowing from
a number of high cost short term lenders. His bank statements show he had paid out over
£1,200 to short term lenders in the month or so leading up to his first loan.
I thought this should have alerted Loans2Go that, as Mr P was regularly borrowing from 
other short-term lenders, it was likely that he was having difficulties managing his money. I 
hadnt seen anything which suggests that the lender queried what it found in its checks with 
Mr P. But given the amount that he was repaying to short term lenders, and in the absence 
of any further information about this, I thought it would have been reasonable for Loans2Go 
to conclude that Mr P was unlikely to be able to repay his loan sustainably over the full loan
term. In the circumstances I would reasonably have expected Loans2Go to decline to 
provide him with the first loan.
Mr P did have difficulties repaying his first loan. He entered a repayment plan and eventually 
the loan was settled in October 2012. Mr P then applied for a second loan in December 
2012. Loans2Go carried out further checks, similar to those it had carried out for loan 1.
But I thought the checks that Loans2Go carried out ought to have suggested that Mr P was 
still having financial problems. His bank statements show he was regularly borrowing from 
other short-term lenders; there was some evidence of gambling and a number of returned 
direct debits. Loans2Go would also have been aware that Mr P had previously had 
difficulties repaying his first loan.
I thought that Loans2Go had focussed on whether the second loan was affordable for Mr P 
on a pounds and pence basis, based on its analysis of his income and expenditure. I noted 
that it took into account Mr Ps credit commitments and his expenditure on gambling. But
this was an expensive loan, repayable over an extended period of time. As Id already
explained, the lender was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably make his
loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict
pounds and pence calculation.
I thought overall Loans2Go should reasonably have realised that Mr P was continuing to 
have difficulties managing his finances. It seemed likely that he was borrowing from short 
term lenders to manage his ongoing financial commitments. And it seemed likely he would 
need to borrow elsewhere to repay his second loan from Loans2Go. In the circumstances I 
thought Loans2Go ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that Mr P wouldve 
been able to sustainably repay his second loan over the full loan term. So it should 
reasonably have concluded that it was not appropriate to provide the second loan to
him.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. Mr P has told us that he 
agrees with my provisional decision. I have not seen any response to my provisional 
decision from Loans2Go. The deadline for comments has now passed.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Mr P for responding to my provisional decision. Given that Ive not received any further 
evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision.
I dont think Loans2Go should have provided Mr P with either loan. I havent seen anything 
which makes me think Loans2Go acted unfairly towards Mr P in any other way. But he has 
paid interest and charges on loans that shouldnt have been provided to him. So Loans2Go 
should now put things right.
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr P shouldnt have repaid more than the capital
amounts he borrowed.
To put things right for Mr P, Loans2Go should:
Consider all payments made by Mr P towards these loans as payments towards the 
combined capital amount.
If Mr P has made payments above this combined capital amount then these should 
be refunded to him, along with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on these 
amounts from the date they were paid to the date of settlement*.
I understand both loan accounts are closed, but if there is a shortfall in repayments 
which leaves a capital amount outstanding, then Loans2Go needs to treat Mr P 
sympathetically and fairly, which might include coming to a new arrangement about 
how best to repay this.
Loans2Go should return the logbook to Mr P, if it has not already done this. It should 
cancel any bill of sale and return V5 documents to him once any outstanding capital 
has been repaid.
Remove any negative information from Mr Ps credit file in relation to the loans, once 
settled.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans2Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans2Go
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman