DRN-3728237
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain that Lloyds Insurance Company SA declined a claim for flood 
damage under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs C have a home and holiday home insurance policy underwritten by Lloyds, 
which covers buildings and contents, amongst other things, at their property overseas.
They made a claim in November 2021 after excessive rainfall in the area. They say this 
caused a flood at their property which caused damage and left soil debris throughout their 
grounds. 
Lloyds declined the claim. They said the damage had been caused by landslip, which was 
not covered under the terms of the policy.
Mr C and Mrs C complained to Lloyds. And when they maintained their stance, Mr C and 
Mrs C brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought Lloyds had acted unfairly towards Mr C and 
Mrs C. He upheld the complaint and said Lloyds should appoint an expert to review all the 
available evidence and determine the cause of the damage. And he said Lloyds should pay 
the claim if the experts opinion was that the damage had been caused by an insured event.
Lloyds disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute in this case that there was extremely heavy rainfall in the locality at the 
relevant time. Mr C and Mrs C have pointed out there was a record amount of rain for the 
area.
Theres also no dispute that Mr C and Mrs Cs property suffered damage on the night in 
question. They describe their grounds as being inundated. And when the water had 
subsided, there was a residue of soil and rock particles left around the grounds and in the 
pool.
Lloyds sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damage. Their view was as follows:
A layer of sludge came off the mountain and covered the exterior of the property 
We confirm that due to a heavy rainstorm, the exterior of the property was inundated 
and once the water drained away a layer of mud covered the flower beds, the pool 
and the garden.
Theres also no dispute about the terms of the policy. In short, Mr C and Mrs C will be 
covered in this case if the damage was caused by storm or flood. They will not be covered if 
the damage was caused by landslip, which is specifically excluded from cover in the policy 
terms.
As our investigator has already pointed out to both parties, there are some general principles 
which apply to all insurance cover and which I have to bear in mind when I look at this case.
In brief, it is down to the policyholder or customer to show that theyve suffered damage or 
loss when they make a claim. In this case, Mr C and Mrs C have done that and theres no 
dispute about it.
However, its down to the underwriter, when they decline a claim, to demonstrate that a 
policy exclusion applies or that a condition of the cover hasnt been met by the policyholder.
In this case, Lloyds are saying an exclusion applies because the damage was caused by 
landslip. And its for them to show that this is in fact the case.
The loss adjuster  who is the only expert who has inspected the property since the event in 
question  concluded that the damage was caused by storm. And on that basis, they said 
the claim should be covered.
We have no expert advice or opinion from Lloyds to contradict the loss adjusters opinion. 
And so, its impossible to reasonably conclude that Lloyds have demonstrated that the 
exclusion for damage caused by landslip applies.
Our investigator said Lloyds should either get such expert evidence or settle the claim, 
which I think was a reasonable outcome in all the circumstances.
In response, Lloyds said there was little point in getting another expert to review the 
evidence because there was nothing to be gained by it. And they said they were entitled to 
disagree with the loss adjusters conclusion given that they confirmed that sludge had come 
off the hillside during heavy rain and damaged the property.
As I say, the only expert who has taken a view of the evidence at present believes the 
damage was caused by storm. The photographs they took show a relatively thin layer of soil 
residue on the grounds of the property, which by no means covers the whole area of the 
grounds.
The pool water might be described a slightly cloudy. It is certainly not sludge or mud. You 
can see the bottom of the pool through the water.
As I understand it, there is a clear difference between sheet flooding, which can remove and 
carry soil particles or small rocks across some distance, and landslip. The latter involves 
relatively rapid movement of a large mass of earth and rocks down a slope.
Landslip is primarily caused by gravity. Landslips may be relatively dry. But as water content 
increases, they may move more rapidly and become either debris avalanches, earthflows or 
mudflows (where there is also high clay content). Where water content is higher than that, a 
sheet flood is the result rather than a landslip of any kind.
Im not an expert in geology, but my understanding is that, put simply, landslip is only said to 
occur where the water in the flow is not abundant enough to be regarded as a transporting 
medium. If the water is the transporting medium, then thats defined as a sheet flood.
It seems to me, from the evidence collected by the loss adjuster, that the residue left by the event that caused the damage at Mr C and Mrs Cs property most likely indicates that the 
soil and rock particles were transported onto the property in the flood water rather than as 
part of a mudflow.
In summary, Lloyds have not, as yet, demonstrated that the landslip exclusion applies in this 
case. And so, their decision to decline the claim was unfair and unreasonable based on the 
evidence in hand at the time they made their decision.
Putting things right
If Lloyds believe its pointless now to appoint an expert to take a view on that, as they said in 
their response to our investigators view, then they should pay the claim. 
If not, they can appoint another expert and consider their report. If the expert agrees with the 
loss adjuster that the damage was caused by storm and/or flood, Lloyds must then pay the 
claim. 
If on the other hand, the expert provides compelling and persuasive evidence that the 
damage was caused by landslip, then Lloyds would be entitled to decline the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint.
Lloyds Insurance Company SA must either pay Mr C and Mrs Cs claim or appoint an expert 
to review the evidence.
And if they choose to appoint an expert, they must then pay the claim if the expert believes 
the damage was caused by an insured event.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman