DRN-4159353
The complaint
Mr H complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as BIP have lost £600 which he paid towards his 
digital credit card account. 
To put things right Mr H wishes for NewDay to pay £600 to his account, the interest hes 
been charged to be adjusted to reflect the payment, and he would like to ensure his credit 
file is not affected. Mr H is also looking for some compensation for having to sort out the 
matter. 
What happened
On 11 October 2022 Mr H says he paid £600 to clear a large portion of the outstanding 
balance on his account with NewDay. 
On 9 November 2022 Mr H emailed NewDay to say he had a query about the £600 going 
missing, and made a reference to this having happened before with another large payment. 
Mr H provided a screenshot of his bank statement to show that £600 had left his bank 
account. 
As NewDay did not respond in full within the timeframe to consider the complaint, Mr H 
brought his concerns to this service. 
Our Investigator did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. After looking into the matter, they 
concluded that the £600 had not in fact left Mr Hs bank account, so the Investigator could 
not find that NewDay had done anything wrong. 
Mr H disagreed as he said his statements showed a payment leaving and never returning to 
his bank account. The Investigator clarified that it did not appear the £600 had ever left his 
account. 
As a resolution could not be reached, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. 
Im aware Mr H has said he previously had a large payment of £500 that went missing, and 
which he said NewDay investigated and then paid into his account. NewDays submissions 
in relation to this are that the £500 was paid as a gesture of goodwill. So theres not enough 
here for me to say that this supports what Mr H has said happened with the £600 payment 
now in question. 
Mr Hs copy of his statement shows an entry dated 12 October 2022, which shows £600 as 
money out to Bip on 11 October 2022. 
During the investigation, Mr H told our Investigator that he only ever uses the NewDay app 
to make his payments to the account. And in turn NewDay confirmed to our Investigator, with 
supporting evidence, that Mr H had accessed the app on 10 October 2022 and 15 October 
2022, but not on 11 October 2022. 
In view of the above, there appears to therefore be a discrepancy between Mr H saying he 
used the app to make the payment -with his statement showing the date he did this- and 
NewDays records showing when Mr H used the app. Neither party have put forward any 
suggestion of problems with the app around this time, so its difficult for me to know what 
exactly has happened here. 
That said, it seems to me Mr Hs main point is that the £600 is shown as money out and the 
subsequent statements through to January 2023 do not show the money being returned to 
his account. For this reason Mr H believes NewDay must have the money. 
Ive reviewed the statements made available from Mr H and I agree with him in so far as 
being able to say it does not appear that a payment of £600 was paid into his account in the 
months from October 2022 to January 2023. However, to have an expectation that money 
should be returned, I think it would first be reasonable to consider whether the money in fact 
left Mr Hs account. 
The statement entry dated 12 October 2022, which Mr H has provided, shows that £600 is 
logged as money out on 11 October 2022. What is important to note is that Mr Hs balance 
on 11 October 2022 is £163.82, and the closing balance on 12 October 2022 is £76.24. 
During their investigation our Investigator also approached Mr Hs bank for information about 
the transaction leaving Mr Hs account. 
Mr Hs bank provided copies of Mr Hs statements from their internal records, and these also 
show that on 11 October Mr Hs balance was £163.82 and that the closing balance on 12 
October 2022 was £76.24. For completeness, the balance on Mr Hs bank account on 10 
October 2022 was £103.82.
However, the banks statements do not show the transaction for £600 at all, but do show 
three outgoing transaction entries on 12 October 2022, whereas Mr Hs copy shows only 
two. The three transactions (£5.08, £12.50 and £70) amount to the difference between the 
two balances noted above for 11 October 2022 and 12 October 2022. 
Given the statements from both Mr H and Mr Hs bank show the same balances for 11 and 
12 October 2022, and the three transactions noted above are the difference between these 
two balances, I think its reasonable to say the statements from Mr Hs bank are more likely 
than not an indication of the transactions that actually went through Mr Hs bank account. 
As the transaction in question was for £600, and Mr Hs available balance at the time in 
question was £163.82 (or £103.82 if I were to consider Mr H made the transaction a day 
earlier as per NewDays records of when he accessed the app), in either case I think its 
reasonable to have expected that the bank account balance would have fallen into a 
negative balance (or an overdraft facility) if the transaction had gone through and left Mr Hs 
bank account. But it did not, as the balance at the end of 12 October 2022 was £76.24. 
Ive also noted that Mr Hs bank account is a basic bank account. These types of bank 
accounts have limited banking features available. For example they do not provide overdraft 
facilities. This is to help prevent customers becoming overdrawn and going into debt. With these accounts it is therefore important for customers to have enough money in their 
account before making any payments. 
NewDay have searched for the payment of £600 not only through the app, but also checked 
other payment channels their customers use (despite Mr H maintaining he only ever used 
the app) and they have not been able to find the payment in question.  
Given Mr H didnt appear to have enough in his bank balance or access to an overdraft 
facility, and taking into account his bank account balances as described above, it doesnt 
appear Mr H had enough money in his account to have made the £600 payment. Or likely 
that his bank would have allowed such a payment to go through given the type of account he 
had. So I think its more likely than not Mr Hs payment of £600 did not leave his bank 
account. And I think its reasonable to say this goes some way to supporting why NewDay 
have therefore been unable to find the payment. 
On balance, Ive therefore not seen enough to make me think NewDay have done anything 
wrong here given theyve searched for the payment and cannot find it, and Mr Hs 
statements suggest more likely than not that the money never left his account. 
I understand Mr H feels strongly about ensuring his credit file is not affected by these events. 
Ive also noted that when Mr H first called our service he told another of our Investigators 
that he did not wish to make any payments towards his account until NewDay found the 
money in question, as he felt otherwise NewDay would not sort things out for him. 
While I understand why Mr H said he wished to not make any further payments towards the 
account, Im mindful that when he entered into the credit agreement with NewDay he agreed 
to pay at least his contractual minimum payment each month, as well as immediately pay 
any amount owed over his credit limit and any contractual minimum payments already 
missed. Mr H therefore had a responsibility to keep making his payments for the money hed 
borrowed. 
Im not aware of how the NewDay account is appearing on Mr Hs credit file, although it 
appears that in January 2023 a default notice was issued. It may help Mr H to know that 
creditors do have a responsibility to report accurate and up to date information to credit 
reference agencies. 
In the circumstances of this case, Ive not seen enough to say that NewDay have done 
something wrong here. 
My final decision
I understand my findings will be a disappointment to Mr H, but for the reasons above and 
based on the available evidence and submissions, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint so Im 
not going to ask NewDay to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman