DRN-2944600
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Aviva Insurance Limited mishandled her home emergency insurance 
claim following a burst pipe at her property.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it for the reasons set out below. 
I understand that Mrs G is unhappy with the service she received from Aviva, as she had to 
call them several times before she was able to secure an appointment, and she was also 
given incorrect information and mistakenly contacted after the emergency had been 
resolved. Aviva conceded that the service Mrs G received had been poor and offered £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. However, Mrs G does not think 
this is commensurate to the experience she has had and submits that they should pay at 
least £200 to cover the cost of a skip she had to use for her damaged property. 
In terms of compensation, Ive considered the service Mrs G received, and its clear she has 
been left upset and inconvenienced by the way she had been dealt with by Aviva. I can see, 
for example, that Mrs G was told by Aviva that their emergency team would call her back 
within an hour, which they failed to do (and which the insurer has since acknowledged was 
the wrong timeframe to give in the first place). I can also see that she was contacted again 
by Aviva in relation to an appointment after the emergency had been resolved. So I 
appreciate why she was left frustrated, as its clear that the service provided by the insurer 
has fallen below an acceptable standard. But I have to consider whether, in the 
circumstances, the £100 compensation offered by Aviva is proportionate to the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
The power to make an award of compensation is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the 
Financial Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for 
distress or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a 
proportionate reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And 
in order to award further compensation to Mrs G, I would have to be satisfied that the 
wrongful actions of Aviva have had a greater impact than just moderate inconvenience or 
upset, which Im not persuaded it has these circumstances. For example, I note that Aviva 
were still able to attend the same day that Mrs G reported the burst pipe, where they were 
then able to resolve the issue. I appreciate it may not have been as soon as Mrs G would 
have liked, but its not always possible for an engineer to attend straight away. And Ive also 
seen nothing to suggest that her property would not have sustained water damage, even if 
Aviva had attended sooner.
So, I do not think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Aviva to cover the costs of Mrs Gs 
skip hire in these circumstances, as it seems likely she wouldve always required use of a 
skip as a result of the burst pipe. However, for the instances where the insurers service fell 
below an acceptable standard, I consider Avivas offer of £100 to be fair compensation in the 
circumstances.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs G, but I will not be asking Aviva to 
make any further award of compensation. 
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited have made an offer to pay a total of £100.
I conclude that such an offer is fair compensation in the circumstances. My decision is that 
Aviva should pay Mrs G (if they have not done so already) within 28 days of receiving her 
acceptance of this decision.
Mrs G should note that if she accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties, and 
she probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, she rejects the decision, although her legal rights will remain 
intact, itll purely be a matter between Mrs G and Aviva as to whether the £100 offer still 
remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror after 
rejection of it has been communicated. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman