DRN-3231747
The complaint
Ms N complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) unfairly applied 
charges when she returned a vehicle to it at the end of a hire agreement.
What happened
Ms N acquired a car under a hire agreement with MBFS. The agreement commenced in 
November 2017 and was for a period of 36 months. Ms N requested that the hire period 
should be extended and MBFS granted two extensions until July 2021.
Ms N says she arranged for the vehicle to be collected on the maturity date but the collection 
wasnt able to go ahead because the agent who was collecting the vehicle didnt collect it at 
the agreed time. The vehicle was collected a week later. Ms N says she was shocked to 
receive an invoice from MBFS for almost £4,000. MBFS said she owed this money for 
damages to the car and because shed returned the car after the maturity date. It provided 
her with a copy of the second inspection report dated 28 July 2021 which listed the damage 
it said it had found.
Ms N complained to MBFS.
MBFS looked into her complaint. It agreed that some of the charges shouldnt have been 
applied. It initially reduced the invoice to £1,869.11. Ms N continued to challenge the 
charges and MBFS agreed to remove a further charge. But it said that Ms N had to pay 
£1,296.42. This amount included a charge of £158.52 because MBFS said the vehicle hadnt 
been returned on the maturity date. Ms N didnt agree. She referred her complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into Ms Ns complaint. He thought it was fair for MBFS to apply 
charges for damages to the vehicle which exceeded the fair wear and tear guidance set out 
by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). He considered each charge 
that had been applied and looked at the photographs and assessment thatd been carried 
out when the vehicle was inspected. He thought the damage charges had been 
appropriately applied. 
Our investigator then considered the charge thatd been applied because the vehicle hadnt 
been collected until after the maturity date. He thought this charge should be removed. He 
thought, on balance, Ms N had arranged for the vehicle to be collected before one oclock on 
the maturity date but the agent collecting the vehicle hadnt carried out the collection as 
arranged. 
MBFS accepted what our investigator said. Ms N did not. She thought £700 would be a fair 
amount to have to pay. She said she couldve got all the work done for less than half the 
cost sought by MBFS.
Because Ms N didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms N disputes the charges which MBFS seeks to apply, following the second inspection.
The Agreement
Ive looked firstly at the terms and conditions of the agreement which Ms N entered into. It 
stated that at the end of the agreement Ms N was required to return the vehicle in line with 
MBFSs Vehicle Return Standards (VRS).
The agreement set out the contractual arrangements between Ms N and MBFS. So, she 
agreed that the VRS would apply when she returned the vehicle. When considering the VRS 
Ive also had regard to the fair wear and tear standards provided by the BVRLA in its Fair 
Wear and Tear Guide. The BVRLA Guide provides an industry-wide set of accepted 
standards that define fair wear and tear on vehicles when they are returned at the end of a 
lease or finance agreement. And, although they dont apply to the agreement Ms N entered 
into, when thinking about Ms Ns complaint and whether shes been treated fairly and 
reasonably, Ive taken the BVRLA Guide into account.
 
Ms N told us she wasnt given information about the VRS before entering the agreement. 
She says the wording in the agreement is vague and is set out in the small print.
Ive looked at the agreement Ms N signed. On each page of the agreement at the top there 
is a statement setting out the page number and also stating how many pages are included. 
The VRS is included at pages four, five and six of the agreement she signed and the font 
size on those pages appears to be the same as the font size for the other wording in the 
agreement. So, Im satisfied the VRS was included in the agreement Ms N signed and Im 
also satisfied it wasnt hidden in small print.
Ms N says she wasnt given any information about the VRS six months prior to the maturity 
date. She says this shouldve happened. 
As mentioned above, the hire agreement was extended twice  in January 2021 and again in 
May 2021. That was why Ms N didnt have to return the vehicle until July 2021. On both 
occasions Ms N signed an agreement accepting the terms of the extension. That agreement 
included the following statement:
 
I understand the terms and conditions of the original agreement still apply.
This meant that in January 2021 and in May 2021, Ms N was referred back to the terms of 
the original agreement. The original agreement included the VRS. So, Im not persuaded she 
wasnt reminded, albeit by reference back to the terms of the original agreement, about the 
provisions set out in the VRS, in the six-month period prior to July 2021.
The damages detailed on the invoice
Ive then looked at the damage which MBFS says its inspectors noted after the vehicle was 
returned. MBFS has already accepted that some of the charges shouldnt have been applied 
and it has removed those charges. So, in this decision, Im only looking at the remaining 
charges which are still disputed by Ms N. Ive set each of these out below.
The agreement stated:
 .. if you fail to take reasonable care of the vehicle in accordance with the 
manufacturers guidelines and/or the VRS you will have to pay our costs of 
repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle or the cost of the consequent 
reduction in the sale value of the vehicle, as compensation.
The decision to repair the vehicle or not to repair the vehicle rests with MBFS 
and/or the retailer or manufacturer who will undertake the VRS Inspection on 
our behalf
Ive considered the report which was provided when the car was inspected by the agents 
acting for MBFS after the vehicle was returned. Ive also looked at the video footage and 
photographs of the car taken at that time.
Bumper Front and Rear
 
I can see several scratches to the bumper front. These scratches exceed 50mm. I can also 
see scratches to the rear bumper which exceed 50mm.
The VRS says:
Bumpers and Body mouldings  
Acceptable  scuff marks up to 50mm (2) which do not adversely affect the overall 
appearance of your vehicle
Ive also looked at what the BVRLA Guide. It says:
Paintwork, vehicle body, bumpers and trim:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out.
So, having looked at the photographs from the inspection, Im satisfied the damage to the 
front and rear bumpers exceed the VRS and also what the BVRLA considers to be fair wear 
and tear. For that reason, Ive decided that MBFS can apply charges for these items.
Door pad right hand rear
Ive looked at the photographs from the inspection and I can see three cuts to the door pad 
right hand rear. These cuts are each approximately 5mm in length.
The VRS stated:
The interior of your vehicle must be in a good condition for the age and mileage of 
the vehicle. 
Not acceptable:
Broken or damaged interior mouldings, trim pads, instrument panel, sun visor or 
headlining, etc.
The BVRLA Guide says:
Interior upholstery and trim must be clean and odourless with no burns scratches 
tears dents or staining
Carpets should not have holes.
Interior fittings such as seat belts rear view mirrors courtesy lights sun visors door 
bins etc, must be present intact and free of damage.
The damage to the door right hand rear pad did exceed the standard set out in both the VRS 
and the BVRLA Guide. So, Im satisfied MBFS can apply a charge for this item.Ive noted that when investigating this complaint MBFS appears to have agreed that the 
damages referred to as the door pad cut could be removed, but the damage to the other 
door pad, referred to as a hole was still chargeable. The hole was in the door pad right 
hand front. In error, MBFS removed the charge for the damages to the door pad right hand 
front.
Ive looked at the damage to the door pad right hand front. A hole is clearly visible on the 
photographs taken during the inspection. So, I think MBFS couldve charged for that 
damage.
The charge for the damage to the door pad right hand front was greater than the charge for 
the door pad right hand rear. So, Ms N hasnt been disadvantaged as a result of the error 
MBFS made here and, given what Ive said above about the damage to both door pads, I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require MBFS to also remove the disputed 
charge for the door pad right hand rear.
Facia Centre Panel
Ive looked at the photographs provided and I can see damage to the facia centre panel. 
There is a visible crack which exceeds 10mm.
The VRS states:
The interior of your vehicle must be in a good condition for the age and mileage of 
the vehicle. 
Not acceptable:
Broken or damaged interior mouldings, trim pads, instrument panel, sun visor or 
headlining, etc.
The BVRLA Guide states:
Vehicle interior
Passenger area, seats, headrests and trim
..Interior fittings such as seat belts, rear view mirrors, courtesy lights, sun visors, door 
bins, etc, must be present intact and free of damage. 
Whilst neither the VRS nor the BVRLA Guide refers specifically to the facia centre panel, Im 
satisfied on balance, it is included within the meaning of both of the extracts Ive set out 
above. I say this because the facia panel is part of the interior of the vehicle and it is 
analogous to the items which are listed in both of the above sections. Neither of the sections 
set out above provides a comprehensive list of everything that is covered. That is why both 
sections include the abbreviation etc.
Having considered the photographs Im satisfied the damage to the facia centre panel here 
exceeded what was acceptable under both the VRS and the BVRLA Guide. So, it is fair and 
reasonable for MBFS to charge for this damage.
Sill Tread plate right front
The photographs show that the sill tread plate to the right front door had been scuffed and 
had come away from the sill tread itself.
The VRS stated:
Acceptable
- A minor amount of scuffing to the door and luggage area treads and sills. 
Not acceptable- Damaged paintwork down to bare metal and aperture seals are torn.
The BVRLA Guide states:
Scratches on treads, sills and seals that reflect normal use are acceptable.
Having looked at the photographic evidence Im satisfied the damage to the sill tread plate 
exceeded minor scuffing and also exceeded what could reasonably be regarded as normal 
use. So, I think it is fair and reasonable for MBFS to apply charges for this damage.
Were charges excessive?
Ms N says the charges MBFS applied in respect of the damages is excessive. She says she 
couldve had all the work done for less than half of what shes been charged.
The agreement stated that Ms N was required to keep the vehicle in good repair and 
condition at all times. The BVRLA Guide also makes clear that drivers can arrange to repair 
any damage before returning the vehicle, provided the repairs are carried out to a 
professional standard by a reputable repairer who can provide a full transferable warranty. 
So, Ms N couldve arranged to have the work carried out herself, at a price arranged with the 
repairer, before returning the vehicle. She didnt do that. And, I havent seen anything to 
indicate that the charges applied here were excessive.
The charge for additional vehicle usage
Ms N says she arranged for the vehicle to be collected on 16 July 2021. That was the last 
day of the extended hire period. She says she was told the vehicle would be collected before 
one oclock, but shortly before that time MBFSs agent contacted her to say the collection 
would be delayed until later that afternoon.
Ms N says she wasnt available later that afternoon. She was a key worker during the 
coronavirus pandemic and wasnt able to make alternative arrangements at such short 
notice. This meant the collection had to be postponed until 26 July 2021. MBFS applied a 
daily charge of £13.21 (plus VAT) for ten days as a result.
Our investigator recommended that MBFS should be asked to remove the additional vehicle 
usage charges. MBFS agreed with this and confirmed it would remove these charges. I 
agree that this was fair and reasonable. And, in these circumstances, Ive decided the daily 
excess charge of £158.52 should be removed from Ms Ns invoice.
It's not clear if MBFS has recorded any adverse information about Ms Ns failure to pay the 
amount it sought to charge her. If it has recorded adverse information with credit reference 
agencies about that, then it should remove that information.
Putting things right
MBFS should reissue its invoice for damage charges. Its already said it has reduced its 
charges to £1296.42. That included an amount of £158.52 for additional vehicle usage. It 
should remove that charge from its invoice and Ms N should be asked to pay the residual 
total amount of £1137.90.
If MBFS has recorded any adverse information with credit reference agencies about Ms Ns 
failure to pay the amount it had requested her to pay as set out in its previous invoices, it 
should remove that information.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint, in part, about Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited.
I now require Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to 
remove the charge of £158.52 it sought to apply for Additional Vehicle Usage; 
issue a new invoice to show a total charge for damages of £1137.90; and 
if it has recorded any adverse information with credit reference agencies about 
Ms Ns failure to pay the invoice it had previously issued, it should remove that 
information.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman