DRN-3299253
The complaint
Mr N complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr N is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In March 2016, Mr N was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk 
about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Mr N decided to purchase the system and finance it through 
a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed. It had two fewer solar panels, so Mr N received a refund of £420.32, for which he 
signed a contract variation form.
In November 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ns behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr N to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr N or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr N and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
Mr N denies ever having seen the quote. He says the signature on the quote is not 
his and he has no recollection of signing any documentation electronically.
Mr N was told by the sales agent that the system would be self-funding and agreed to 
proceed with the purchase on that basis. He denies receiving a copy of the quotation 
following the meeting. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr N paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr N could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr N and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr N says that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote. Ive considered these , along with 
Mr Ns testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most 
likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mr Ns 
version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The CMC said that:
Mr N denies ever having seen the quote. He says the signature on the quote is not 
his and he has no recollection of signing any documentation electronically.
Mr N was told by the sales agent that the system would be self-funding and agreed to 
proceed with the purchase on that basis. He denies receiving a copy of the quotation 
following the meeting. I acknowledge what Mr N has said and I can see that there are differences between his 
signature on the quote and the other examples of his signature from around the time of sale. 
However, from my experience thats often the case when people sign electronically on a 
touchscreen or using a mouse or trackpad, as was Ps process during the sale. However, Im 
mindful that theres no dispute that there was a sales meeting at which Mr N agreed to 
purchase the system  or that he later agreed to a variation to the contract. 
Theres no dispute that Mr N signed the contract variation form, which showed the original 
estimate of the first-year benefit was as follows:
This adds up to a total first-year benefit of £456.98, or £38.08 per month. Since this didnt 
include the optional extras that Mr N chose it was actually less than shown on the quote. 
And much less than the monthly loan repayment of £88.23 per month, or £1,058.76 per year. 
Since Mr N agreed to fewer solar panels being installed than shown on the original quote, I 
think he wouldve known at this point that he would be receiving a benefit of less than 
£456.98 in the first year. With this in mind, whether or not Mr N signed the original quote, I 
still think it was most likely made clear to him that the system would not be self-funding  
both at the sales meeting and before he agreed to the contract variation. 
So, while Ive taken into account what Mr N has said about the signatures on the quote, this 
does not lead me to conclude that he didnt see or was not taken through the quote. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Mr N has said that the cost of the system was documented as £8,357.00. he has said that 
this was done to mislead him as this figure did not include any interest associated with the 
loan so hid the true cost of the system, £15,981.40.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr N was told that the cost of the system was £8,357.00. The 
quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that 
the cash price of the system was £8,357.00. The monthly payment was £88.23. The total 
amount of credit is £8,257.00 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£15,981.40. Mr N signed a contract variation form which resulted in him receiving a refund of 
£420.32.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr Ns recollections, Im satisfied that they 
were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as 
set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £8,357.00, it would 
cost Mr N more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Ive considered the quote that was provided by P as well as the Mr Ns recollections of their 
meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr N could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr N could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £216.99, which results in an average monthly income of £18.08. As 
outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there would 
be a monthly loan repayment due of £88.23. As a result, Im not able to conclude that the 
consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payment.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr N could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £239.99 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr N the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £552.98. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mr N entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £88.23. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £88.23, to give an average difference between 
the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr N could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall benefits he could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. 
This supports my finding above that Mr N wasnt told that the FIT payment would cover the 
loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about Mr Ns version of events. However, as Ive 
found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went 
through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that he was told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr N that the system would be self-funding. In doing so Ill 
again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the start. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr N was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 30 years. This shows that by year 19 the overall benefits that Mr N could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr N that the system would pay for itself by 
year 19, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr N. The MCS certificate sets out that the system is expected to 
produce 1,539 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr N FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 2,050 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, so Im 
satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P generally used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data for approximately ten years before 
the date of sale to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual 
yearly increases between 2016 and 2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted 
by P at the point of sale and I think this explains why Mr N hasnt been receiving the financial 
returns he may have been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have 
been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy 
generated by the system has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were generally based on the information 
available from the ONS covering about ten years. And based on this, I dont consider it 
unreasonable for P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial 
income Mr N couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that 
the returns may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded 
that this was due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr N entered 
into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr N to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman