The complaint
Mr K says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1998, Halifax sold Mr K a monthly premium PPI policy to protect his monthly mortgage 
repayments if he was unable to work because of disability or unemployment. Its unclear how 
the policy came to be added.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicator, 
so the case was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
There are gaps in the information thats still available from 1998, which isnt surprising given 
how long ago that was. So Ive reached my decision on the balance of the remaining 
evidence and from experience of how these policies were typically sold. 
Mr K says he was pressured into buying the PPI as he was led to believe it would help with 
his mortgage application. Hes also said he thought the mortgage and PPI came as a 
package. While I accept this is possible, I think its unlikely looking at the respective start 
dates of the mortgage and the PPI. From the evidence Ive seen, the PPI didnt start until the 
mortgage had already been running for around three months. So I dont see how Mr K would 
have been under the impression the mortgage and PPI were one and the same or that he 
had to have the PPI if he wanted the mortgage. 
And while theres nothing to conclusively show Mr K was told the PPI was optional or that he 
agreed to it, equally theres nothing to show that didnt happen. So I cant fairly say that 
Halifax did anything wrong here.
Halifax has considered the complaint as though it recommended the PPI to Mr K. If it did that 
meant, among other things, Halifax needed to take steps to ensure its advice was right for 
him. Regardless of what steps it took, I think the PPI was right for him in any case. 
DRN-1043671For example, looking at the applicable policy terms and from what Mr Ks told us about his 
circumstances, it seems he was eligible for the cover. And I cant see that Mr K was affected 
by any of the main things the policy excluded or limited cover or that hed have found the 
monthly premium unaffordable either.
Mr K says hed only have been entitled to statutory sick pay and that he had very limited 
alternative means of meeting his repayments if he wasnt working. The PPI benefits were 
considerable and potentially paid out for up to 12 months for each successful claim. He was 
covered for unemployment too.
Taking into account that Mr K had entered into a long-term financial commitment that was 
secured against his home, I think its likely hed have valued the protection the PPI provided.
Halifax also needed to give Mr K enough information about the PPI to allow him to decide for 
himself if it was right for him. I think its possible that the information it gave him could have 
been better than it was. But, for the same reasons that I dont think the PPI was unsuitable 
for him, I dont think that better information would have changed his decision to take it. I think 
hed still have thought it provided a useful benefit at an affordable cost.
Mr Ks point about other PPI policies sold to him  and Halifaxs acceptance that they were 
mis-sold  doesnt impact on this complaint. Im required to take into account whats fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances of this case. Having done that, I dont believe Mr Ks 
lost out because of how Halifax sold him this PPI policy.
My final decision 
For the reasons given, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman