DRN-3152724
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Insurance Factory Ltd, trading as Purely Pets, mis-sold her a pet 
insurance policy because it didnt explain that the premiums would increase over time.
  
What happened
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
Mrs W took out lifetime pet insurance in 2018. Purely Pets sold and administered 
the policy and the insurance cover was provided by a separate company.
Initially the policy cost around £250 for the year. Mrs W renewed it in the following 
years. The premium increased at each renewal.
In 2021, Purely Pets said the premium would increase to over £1,100. Mrs W 
reduced the level of cover and the premium reduced to £900. She complained 
because she said she hadnt been told the premium would increase over time.
Purely Pets said the premium increases were correct and explained what had caused 
them. But it accepted it hadnt made it clear when Mrs W took out the policy that this 
was likely to happen. It offered her £300 compensation.
Our investigator thought the size of the increase had surprised Mrs W and caused 
her stress and inconvenience. He recommended Purely Pets increase its offer to 
£700 to recognise the impact on Mrs W.
Purely Pets offered to increase the compensation figure to £500. Mrs W didnt think 
this went far enough to put things right for her.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Purely Pets didnt set the premiums for the policy  thats the role of the company providing 
the insurance cover. But it was responsible for the sale of the policy. It had a duty to provide 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading, to enable Mrs W to make an informed 
decision about whether the policy was right for her.
This kind of lifetime policy is broadly intended to provide cover for any conditions the pet 
develops for the rest of its life, so long as the policy remains in place. They tend to increase 
in price as a pet ages and claims are made. Whilst Purely Pets wasnt responsible for the 
premium increases, Im satisfied it ought to have been aware price increases were likely.
Purely Pets has accepted it didnt provide this kind of information to Mrs W when she bought 
the policy. So she wasnt made aware the premium was likely to increase significantly. As a 
result, Purely Pets didnt give Mrs W enough information to make an informed decision. Its 
now offered a total of £500 to put this right. Mrs W thinks £700 is fairer.
Its not in dispute that Purely Pets has made a mistake. Ive considered what impact that 
mistake has had on Mrs W to decide what a fair amount of compensation would be.
When a consumer takes out this type of policy, they reasonably expect to be able to keep it 
for the lifetime of their pet. Significant price increases can make it difficult to afford to 
maintain the policy. If the consumer cancels their lifetime policy and takes out a standard 
policy with another insurer, theyre likely to find any existing conditions wont be covered  or 
the cost of providing cover will be expensive. Consumers can opt to reduce the level of cover 
to reduce the price. Mrs W has chosen to do this but points out that means her pet no longer 
has the full benefit of cover she thought it would when she took out the policy.
The premium increased from £250 to £300 in 2019  and then doubled to £600 in 2020. 
Purely Pets first included information about premium increases at the 2020 renewal. That 
may have made Mrs W more prepared for an increase in 2021  when the premium almost 
doubled again, reaching £1,100 before Mrs W made changes to the policy. But by that point 
shed already made a number of claims. So I think the likelihood of her finding another 
insurer prepared to offer a similar level of cover for a similar price was likely to be very low.
Overall, within three renewals, the premium has increased from £250 to £1,100. Mrs W 
wasnt warned to expect it from the outset. I think its a significant increase and one that 
would likely have come as a shock to her. It means shes now, unexpectedly, faced with a 
choice between a much greater financial burden than she anticipated, or a much lower level 
of cover than she wanted for her pet. And thats likely to continue throughout her pets life. 
Im persuaded this has caused her considerable distress. Shes already reduced the level of 
cover to make the policy more affordable, which will have added to her concern.
In these circumstances, Im satisfied a total of £700 is reasonable and proportionate to the 
distress and worry Purely Pets has caused Mrs W by not providing clear information at the 
outset of the policy. If Purely Pets has already paid any of the compensation offered to Mrs 
W, it can deduct this from £700 and pay her the remainder.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Insurance Factory Ltd, trading as Purely Pets, to pay a total of £700 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman