DRN-1169649
 
Complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 1996. Ms N says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
Given the length of time since the sale and the consequential lack of detail, I cant 
say its more likely that Lloyds didnt make it clear to Ms N that the policy was 
optional or that Lloyds added it without her consent. 
 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms N so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Ms N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think its more likely she chose to take it out -  so it looks like 
she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms N.
 
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms N because: 
 
When the policy was sold, Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms N about that. 
Because Lloyds didnt tell Ms N, that was unfair. 
 To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Ms N has said - including what she has about her existing 
repayment provisions. But these points dont change my decision. The PPI policy would 
have paid out in addition to Ms Ns sick pay and would also have paid out if she lost her job 
 for up to 12 months per claim. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms N.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Ms N any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman