DRN-2902848
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) reneged on an agreement 
to send them shopping vouchers following a complaint relating to their travel insurance 
policy. Reference to URV includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs P had an annual travel insurance policy with URV.   
They wanted to add cruise cover to the policy but were given incorrect information. URV 
offered to add cruise cover free of charge but that wasnt acceptable to Mr and Mrs P. 
So, URV offered £20 in shopping vouchers, which Mr and Mrs P accepted. But              
Mr and Mrs P say that they didnt receive the shopping vouchers. URV has now offered 
to send Mr and Mrs P £20 via BACS.  
The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think that the offer URV has now made is fair. Ill explain why. 
Its common ground that URV offered to send Mr and Mrs P shopping vouchers of 
£20 in resolution of their complaint. Mr and Mrs P accepted that offer but say they 
didnt receive the vouchers. 
On balance, I dont think that URV can show that they sent the shopping vouchers to 
Mr and Mrs P. It has now agreed to send £20 to Mr and Mrs P via BACS. I think 
thats fair. 
Mr and Mrs P say that compensation of £50 is fair, as URV didnt respond to them 
and theyve suffered inconvenience as a result of URVs handling of their complaint.  
As the investigator explained, this service can only consider complaints about 
financial services. So, I cant consider the additional points about URVs handling of 
their complaint, because it isnt a regulated activity.
I do appreciate that this matter has gone on for some time but, considering 
everything, I think that URVs offer to send Mr and Mrs P £20 via BACS is fair and 
reasonable. 
Putting things right
I now require URV to pay Mr and Mrs P £20 via BACS, which it has agreed to do. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Union Reiseversicherung AG 
should now take the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman