DRN-1708665
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with the quality of the repair work completed by Crawford & 
Company Adjusters (UK) Limited (Crawford) following a claim under their home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H made a claim on their home insurance following an escape of water. They 
agreed to Crawford acting as their loss assessor and Crawford took on the claim in 
September 2018.
Mr and Mrs H moved into temporary accommodation whilst Crawford carried out repair 
works. Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with the quality of the repair work completed and said 
that additional damage had been caused to their property. They also said that theyd 
experienced some aggressive behaviour from a contractor who carried out some of the 
repairs.
Crawford looked into these concerns and agreed to rectify many of the issues raised. 
However, some areas remained in dispute so the complaint was brought to this service in 
October 2019.
Our investigator gave his initial views on the complaint in December 2019 and January 2020. 
Both parties have provided additional comments and evidence since then, and accepted 
parts of his view. However there remain a number of unresolved issues and both parties 
have asked that an ombudsman decide the case.
The main issues that remain outstanding are:-
Step in hallway floor and cracked pipe
Undulations in the new flooring to the ground floor
Conservatory blinds
Alternative accommodation costs
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I am largely considering the issues that remain in dispute. I wont be detailing 
the circumstances of the claim as its not in dispute. Or commenting in detail on points in the 
investigators assessment that have been accepted. For the avoidance of doubt these are:-
scratched cooker  Crawford have agreed to make a cash settlement 
broken slates around the fireplace  Crawford has agreed to make a cash settlement
damp issue  our investigator viewed this to be a long-standing issue and not 
Crawfords responsibility. And this has been accepted by Mr and Mrs H.
Having considered these points, I agree with our investigators view and am satisfied the 
outcomes are fair and reasonable.  
I will now turn to the outstanding issues of the complaint. When I refer to Crawford I include 
its contractors and agents.
Hallway floor and cracked pipe
Crawford have accepted there is a slight step in the hall and says this is as a result of 
increased insulation to meet current regulations. Theyve agreed to move the step to the 
door threshold and relay the floor. They dont agree that the contractor caused the drainpipe 
to be cracked but have agreed to fix it. Im satisfied that this is a reasonable course of action.
Undulations in the new flooring
There is no dispute that there are undulations to the newly laid flooring throughout the 
ground floor. Crawford say these undulations existed with the previous flooring. And that Mr 
and Mrs H were informed that there were pre-existing defects in the sub floor during a site 
visit prior to work commencing. It says Mr and Mrs H accepted that the new flooring wouldnt 
be level. However, it hasnt provided any documentary evidence of Mr and Mrs H accepting 
the floor wouldnt be level, or even of informing them of this other than comments from its 
contractors and staff. 
The contractors and surveyors summary comments were made several months after the 
site visit. In these comments it says it reconfirmed to Mr and Mrs H that repairs to the sub 
floor were vital and should be carried out, at Mr and Mrs Hs expense, before new flooring 
was laid. It adds that not carrying out this work would mean the contractor would not be in a 
position to guarantee the new flooring would be stable and level. Its not unreasonable to 
expect that something as fundamental as this would have been confirmed in writing, and Ive 
seen no evidence it was. It has also suggested that the flooring was only partially re-laid.
Mr and Mrs H have no recollection of agreeing to the replacement floor not being level. 
Theyve provided photographic evidence of the extent of the undulations, including photos 
showing the flooring isnt flush with the skirting boards and some split and peeling flooring 
consistent with it not having been level. Theyve also provided photographs showing the 
extent to which the original floors were taken up by the contractors. And theyve provided 
emails indicating the flooring was laid soon after theyd confirmed their colour choices so 
wasnt acclimatised in the property before being laid. 
On balance Im more persuaded by the evidence Mr and Mrs H have provided and that the 
undulations are as a result of poor workmanship. And I find it fair that Crawford re-lays the 
flooring to an acceptable industry standard. Given the age of the property it is possible that 
there may be some minor variations even when the floor is laid to this standard as floors are 
rarely completely spirit level flat.
Conservatory blinds
Crawford have accepted our investigators view that the blinds need to be replaced rather 
than repaired. And has asked that it be given the opportunity to source some alternative 
quotes to verify that the quote provided by Mr and Mrs H is on a like for like basis. 
Mr and Mrs H have accepted that this is reasonable and have indicated they would consider 
blinds from a different manufacturer providing they are the same quality.
I agree with our investigators view on this matter and find it reasonable that Crawford liaise 
with Mr and Mrs H to arrange for quotations from 2 or 3 locally based blind companies to visit the property, take measurements and provide quotations for blinds of a similar quality. If 
a suitable match can be found in terms of quality and materials, then it would be fair for 
Crawford to arrange for the blinds to be replaced and dispose of the original blinds. Or it can 
provide a cash settlement for the average of the quotations it arranges, enabling Mr and Mrs 
H to make their own arrangements. 
Alternative accommodation
Mr and Mrs Hs insurance company initially provided alternative accommodation whilst 
repairs were carried out following the escape of water. And Mr and Mrs H remained in 
alternative accommodation at their own expense as they werent happy with the quality of 
repairs and felt theyd need to move out again whilst the repairs are completed to a 
satisfactory standard. They say theyd struggle to find something suitable due to their family 
situation. 
Wed typically say that a house is uninhabitable, and alternative accommodation is required 
if there is no access to a kitchen or bathroom, or the house is unsafe. From the evidence Ive 
seen the house isnt unsafe and there is access to a kitchen and bathroom. So I dont think 
its reasonable for Crawford to reimburse Mr and Mrs H for alternative accommodation costs 
incurred to date. 
However, given the extent of the reflooring required Im satisfied that the property will not be 
habitable whilst this work is carried out.  And find it fair and reasonable that Crawford should 
make a pro-rata contribution to the rental costs Mr and Mrs H incur for the period the floor is 
being re-laid. For the avoidance of doubt this contribution should be the amount of the rent 
paid by Mr and Mrs H for each week the property is uninhabitable whilst the floor is re-laid, 
not any period before or after this remedial work is carried out. Mr and Mrs H would need to 
provide evidence of these costs to Crawford.
Completing all the repairs has taken longer than it should and not been as well handled as it 
should. And this has impacted on Mr and Mrs H and their family. Crawford has offered £750 
as compensation and taking account of all the circumstances of this particular case I find this 
reasonable.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Crawford & Company Adjusters (UK) Limited to:-
Make a cash settlement for the broken slates and scratched cooker
Pay £750 for the trouble and upset caused
Relay the hall flooring to move the step to the doorway
Repair the drainpipe under the hall floor
Relay the parts of the ground floor that are undulating to industry standards
Arrange for suitable replacement blinds or make a cash settlement
Pay the rental costs for the alternative accommodation for the period the house is 
uninhabitable due to the floor being re-laid 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman