DRN-1623073
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc said they needed to open a new 
claim under their home insurance policy rather than dealing with some damage as part of an 
existing claim.
What happened
In November 2017, Mr and Mrs Cs home had an escape of water from the bath that caused 
significant damage to the first floor and ground floor areas. The majority of the claim was 
accepted, but AXA said that some damage to a tiled floor in the ground floor lounge needed 
to be dealt with under a separate claim.
Mr and Mrs C complained to this service. They thought that the proximate cause of the 
damage to the tiles was the escape of water and that it should therefore be dealt with as one 
claim. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt that the approach taken by AXA 
was reasonable.
As Mr and Mrs C did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C told AXA that during the escape of water he noticed that water was coming through the 
light sockets in part of the lounge. He got advice from an emergency plumber, who told him 
to remove the lounge spotlights to release the trapped water. As Mr C went to deal with this, 
he slipped. This brought the ladder down on to the floor, which cracked a tile.
Im aware that AXA has said it wont consider this damage as part of the existing claim for 
the escape of water, but would consider it as a separate claim for accidental damage. Im 
also aware that Mr and Mrs C have argued that as the damage was as a result of the escape 
of water, it should be dealt with as part of the existing claim. This would mean that they didnt 
have to pay a second excess and that there wasnt another claim on their insurance history, 
which could affect their ability to get other insurance. Ive also read the arguments put 
forward by Mr and Mrs Cs representative.
AXA has previously explained to Mr and Mrs C that at its initial visit the damaged tile was 
remote from the generally affected area and there was no evidence that this tile was 
damaged as a direct result of the incident. It also said that Mr and Mrs C had specifically 
asked whether the policy provided cover for accidental damage. AXA said it wasnt 
satisfied that the escape of water was the proximate cause and that it had agreed to 
consider a claim under the accidental damage cover, which would be a separate claim.
I have also looked at AXAs records. Following an inspection of the damage, AXA updated 
its case notes and, based on that assessment said there was no signs of damage to ceiling 
so felt amount of water was not significant enough. It then said Mrs C was advised that she would need to evidence that she had already carried out ceiling repairs prior to considering 
challenged items further as  feel there would be significant damage to the ceiling if flooring 
was to have been damaged.
I have thought about AXAs position on this. It has come to its view based on its assessment 
of the circumstances of this case and the claim as a whole. I have checked with AXA and it 
has confirmed that it has no reason to think that it wouldnt deal with the damage if it was 
submitted as a separate, accidental damage, claim. It therefore isnt trying to avoid dealing 
with the claim, but it has decided that would be the most appropriate way to deal with the 
damage. Having thought about this, I have no reason to think that it is unreasonable in doing 
so. On that basis, I dont think that AXA needs to consider this damage as part of the 
existing claim.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman