DRN-4018611
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard lent irresponsibly when it 
approved his credit card application and later increased the credit limit on two occasions. 
What happened
In May 2016 Mr C successfully applied for a credit card with Barclaycard. In his application, 
Mr C said he was self employed earning around £23,000. Figures setting out Mr Cs regular 
income and expenditure were taken showing he had around £85 a month remaining. 
Barclaycard approved a credit limit of £3,800.
In April 2017 Barclaycard increased the credit limit to £5,000 and in June 2018 it was 
increased to £5,500.
Last year Mr C complained that Barclaycard had lent irresponsibly. Barclaycard didnt agree 
it had made mistakes when approving the application or increasing Mr Cs credit limit and 
didnt uphold his complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Cs case. They said that we couldnt consider Mr 
Cs complaint about the original credit card application because of the time limits noted in 
our rules. But the investigator didnt think Barclaycard had acted fairly when increasing the 
credit limit. The investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint and asked Barclaycard to refund all 
interest and charges applied from April 2017 above the original £3,800 credit limit. 
Barclaycard asked to appeal, so Mr Cs complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreed to lend to Mr C or increasing the credit limit under an existing agreement, 
Barclaycard needed to check he could afford to meet repayments out of his usual means, 
within a reasonable period of time, without having to borrow further and without experiencing 
financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. Barclaycard needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable for Mr C. The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature 
of the credit (for example, the amount offered) and Mr Cs circumstances.
As our investigator has already confirmed, the time limits in our rules mean we cant look at 
the original application in May 2016. So Im not going to make a decision concerning 
whether Barclaycard lent irresponsibly or not when the credit card application was approved. 
Ive looked at the credit limit increase in April 2017. Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator that Barclaycard failed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before 
increasing the credit limit. And I think that, had it done so, Barclaycard wouldnt have 
increased the credit limit as it did. Ill explain why. 
Barclaycard took information from Mr C concerning his income and expenditure in May 
2016. In addition, Barclaycard completed a credit search and continued to monitor Mr Cs 
credit file after the account was opened. Whilst Im not looking at the original application, the 
information provided within it was less than 12 months old when Barclaycard increased the 
credit limit. The application information showed Mr C had a limited disposable income of 
around £85 a month. So I think Barclaycard needed to take extra care when increasing the 
level of debt available as there was only limited capacity to repay further borrowing 
sustainably and afford day to day living expenses. 
Theres no set list of checks a lender has to complete. Barclaycard had various options 
available, including looking at Mr Cs bank statements or verifying his income. Weve got 
copies of Mr Cs statements on file and they show income figures received in the months 
before the credit limit was increased in April 2017 to be significantly below the figure noted in 
the original application. The available information indicates Mr C was receiving less than his 
outgoings when Barclaycard increased his credit limit to £5,000. 
In my view, had Barclaycard carried out better checks it wouldnt have approved the credit 
limit increase in April 2017 as it wouldve most likely found Mr C wasnt in a position to 
sustainably repay further borrowing. 
It follows that if I think the first credit limit increase was unreasonably approved, I think the 
same about the one that followed in June 2018. By this time, the income and expenditure 
information Barclaycard had from the original application was over two years old. And Mr Cs 
regular payments to service his existing debts had increased. In addition, Mr Cs credit file 
shows he took out another credit card between April 2017 and June 2018, potentially 
increasing his total outstanding debt further. I think these shouldve all been signs that 
Barclaycard needed to complete further checks before deciding whether to approve another 
credit limit increase. 
In much the same way as the first credit limit increase, Im satisfied that if Barclaycard had 
carried out better checks by, for example, verifying Mr Cs income or looking at his bank 
statements, it wouldnt have approved further borrowing in June 2018. In my view, the 
available information indicates the credit limit increase approved in June 2018 wasnt 
affordable for Mr C. 
As Im satisfied Barclaycard lent irresponsibly when it approved credit limit increases in April 
2017 and June 2018 Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard to settle as follows: 
Rework Mr Cs account to remove all interest, fees and charges applied on balances over 
£3,800 from April 2017 onwards; and
-If the effect of these reworkings results in a credit balance on the account, then this 
should be refunded to Mr C along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments from 
the date they were made to the date of settlement. In this case, Barclaycard should remove any adverse information reported on Mr Cs credit file about this account 
after the first increase was applied; or 
-If an outstanding balance remains on this account once these adjustments have 
been made Barclaycard needs to ensure that Mr C is only liable for this adjusted 
balance and arrange an affordable repayment plan with him. Once Mr C has cleared 
the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded about this account after 
the first increase was granted should be removed from his credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclaycard to take off tax from this interest. Barclaycard 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman