DRN-1297956
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as such this service can consider complaints about it.
The car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Santander, 
who are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality 
of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other 
relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr C. The car here 
was first registered in October 2015 and Mr C tells us it had already completed a little under 
35,000 miles when he took receipt of it.
As Mr C has reported an issue within the first six months I think its fair to suggest the 
business will need to demonstrate the fault was not present at the point of supply and not 
therefore their responsibility. 
I dont think, at the moment, that sufficient investigations have taken place. I say that 
because the independent inspector has suggested the Exhaust Gas Recirculation fault 
codes need further investigation.
So, I think the investigator is right to suggest that Santander carry out these further 
investigations. The relevant legislation allows the business an opportunity to repair a fault 
that is present at the point of supply. So, if a fault is found, Santander should rectify it at no 
cost to Mr C.
But Mr C has explained that hes not been able to drive the car for some time and has been 
paying for it in the meantime. And, if there is a fault with the car that has rendered it 
undriveable, then it would not be fair for Mr C to be paying for goods he had no benefit from.
So, Ive thought about how to resolve this. At the moment there appears to be little evidence 
that there is a fault with the car as both the dealership and the independent inspector have 
said that. So, in the absence of proof there is anything wrong with the car, it wouldnt be fair 
for me to ask Santander to compensate Mr C for lack of use.
But if further investigation does reveal a fault with the car I think Mr C should be allowed to 
raise a further complaint with Santander about the lack of use and loss of enjoyment hes 
experienced with his vehicle. And if that subsequent complaint is raised and not dealt with to 
Mr Cs satisfaction by Santander he can, of course, refer it to this service.
Mr C has been inconvenienced by these issues because Santander havent carried out a 
thorough investigation into the fault. In those circumstances they should pay him some 
compensation and I would agree with the investigator that, in the circumstances, this should 
be £100.
Putting things right
Santander will need to investigate the cause of the fault codes and pay some compensation 
to Mr C.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc to:
investigate the two fault codes referred to in the independent inspection report and 
rectify any problems that are identified at no cost to Mr C;
pay Mr C £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
consider a payment for loss of enjoyment and loss of use of the car if a fault is found 
with the vehicle and Mr C raises a new complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman