DRN-3447764
The complaint
Mr W complains about Nationwide Building Societys actions after he paid in a cheque.
What happened
On 19 April 2021 Mr W paid a cheque into his account. Nationwide says the issuing bank 
declined to clear the cheque payment so the funds were removed from Mr Ws account. 
Nationwide wrote to Mr W on 20 April 2021 to explain what had happened. 
Mr W contacted Nationwide on 24 April 2021 as hed noticed the change in his account 
balance. Mr W hadnt received Nationwides letter at this point. Mr W says Nationwide was 
unable to explain why the cheque had been declined. 
On 26 April 2021 the funds were transferred into Mr Ws account by the issuing bank. No 
replacement cheque was issued for payment. 
Mr W complained about the way Nationwide had processed his cheque and the service 
provided. Mr W asked for compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Nationwide issued two responses, one dealing with the service provided and another dealing 
with the declined cheque payment. Nationwide didnt uphold Mr Ws complaints. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ws complaint but thought Nationwide had dealt 
with it fairly. Mr W didnt agree and his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has explained the issuing bank declined the cheque payment. I understand Mr W 
wanted a better understanding of why the cheque funds didnt clear when he contacted 
Nationwide. But Im satisfied it explained why the cheque funds were debited from his 
account after it was submitted for payment. 
Mr W has told us he doesnt think the 10 day timescale for contacting customers when a 
cheque isnt paid is reasonable. But Nationwide says it writes to customers within five 
working days. I note that Nationwide received the cheque for payment on 19 April 2021 and 
wrote to Mr W on 20 April 2021 to confirm the issuing bank hadnt paid it. I appreciate Mr W 
feels Nationwide shouldve done more to contact him and that he didnt immediately receive 
its letter. But Nationwide says its normal practice is to write to customers within five working 
days and Im satisfied it did that. I havent seen any evidence of unreasonable delays by 
Nationwide in contacting Mr W about the cheque.
Mr W says he thinks Nationwide shouldve phoned him due to the amounts involved and risk 
of scams. But the reason the cheque wasnt processed was because the issuing bank didnt 
pay it, not because Nationwide suspected a scam. Whilst I note Mr Ws view, I think 
Nationwides decision to write to him in line with the above dates was fair and reasonable.  
Mr W has told us the service provided by Nationwide was poor with staff listening in on 
private conversations in branch. Mr W has also explained his calls werent handled well by 
Nationwide. But Nationwide has explained all branch staff have access to customer 
information and there was no intention to eavesdrop during Mr Ws visit. Im satisfied thats 
the case. 
I dont doubt Mr W found the process of discussing the cheque payment frustrating and 
appreciate call handlers may not have been able to immediately explain what had happened. 
Ive looked at what Mr W has told us about his interactions with Nationwide. Ive also looked 
at Nationwides contact notes and staff statements. 
Its clear some of the calls didnt go well and I can see Mr W was concerned about the 
identification process involved at times. Mr W has told us he wanted to get the personal 
information of the people he was speaking with. Whilst I understand Mr W wanted 
information about the people who called, by declining to answer Nationwides security 
questions he was unable to discuss the cheque payment. I havent been persuaded it was 
unfair of Nationwide to refuse to discuss Mr Ws account with him without first completing its 
verification process. 
In addition, a call to Mr Ws mobile was made despite Nationwide confirming it would ring his 
landline. I appreciate that was frustrating but I can see Nationwide apologised in its final 
response and Im satisfied thats fair. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W but I havent found anything that shows Nationwide made a 
mistake or acted unfairly when the cheque payment was returned to the issuing bank. The 
information Ive seen shows Nationwide contacted Mr W quickly when the cheque wasnt 
paid and I havent seen evidence of unreasonable delays or poor service. As Im satisfied 
Nationwide dealt with Mr Ws complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman