DRN-2944697
The complaint
Mr R complains about delays by Nationwide Building Society after he requested an ISA 
transfer to another business. 
What happened
Mr R sent Nationwide a transfer request form in September 2020. Nationwide says that it 
sent a cheque to the new ISA provider around a month later.
The new ISA provider went on to chase the transfer in the months that followed. A 
replacement cheque was sent to the new ISA provider in March 2021 and the transfer 
completed. 
Mr R complained and Nationwide upheld it. Nationwide said that if Mr R had lost out on 
interest with the new ISA provider he could forward evidence and it would cover it. 
Nationwide also offered Mr R £150 and apologised for the delay. 
Mr R referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Nationwides offer to resolve the complaint was reasonable so didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Mr R asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree Nationwide delayed Mr Rs ISA transfer. Nationwide has confirmed it 
shouldve looked into the delay in January 2021 when the new ISA provider contacted it to 
query why the transfer hadnt gone through. And Mr R has explained he also chased 
Nationwide directly. The ISA transfer has now gone through and Mr Rs funds are with the 
new provider. 
I need to decide how to fairly resolve Mr Rs complaint. Ive considered whether the delay led 
to a loss for Mr R. Nationwides final response asked Mr R to provide evidence of his loss if 
the new ISA provider didnt backdate interest to the transfer date. Mr R says Nationwide can 
get that information directly from the new ISA providers website. But Nationwides offer to 
cover interest Mr R mayve missed out on was made on the basis that the new ISA provider 
hadnt already backdated the ISA transfer. Im satisfied that Nationwides request that Mr R 
provides evidence of a loss is reasonable in the circumstances of his case. 
Nationwide also offered Mr R £150 for the trouble and upset caused by the delay and 
apologised. Whilst I understand Mr R is upset at the delay in his ISA transfer, Im satisfied 
£150 fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised in this case. 
I agree Nationwide did delay Mr Rs ISA transfer but Im satisfied its dealt with Mr Rs 
complaint fairly and made a reasonable offer. As a result, Im not telling it to increase the 
settlement offered. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Nationwide Building Society has 
already made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman